ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] High Seym! Since in recent days two miners - such knowledge we have for today - have died in the wake of the catastrophe that took place in the Zofiówka mine in Silesia - I would ask the High House to celebrate their silence. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. I would like to call on Adam Andruszkiewicz, Krystian Jarubas, Krzysztof Kubow and Daniel Milewski to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the Secretaries will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Krzysztof Kubów and Krystian Jarubas. I consider the minutes of the 61st session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The Group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Piotr Gliński. This is print number 2478. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with A group of Members submitted a request for the cancellation of the Marshal of the Sejm. This is print number 2490. Therefore, pursuant to Article. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this request. At the 61st meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - the protection of personal data, - about tachographs, - amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. These are printers 2410, 2458 and 2459 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The groups of Members have submitted draft resolutions: - on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the existence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and bodies in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties, - on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of, and the determination of possible negligence in, the activities of public authorities and institutions undertaken to prevent under-impacts on the State budget from goods and services tax and excise duty since 2007. The projects are prints 2475 and 2474 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the system of conformity assessment and the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws, - amending the Act on occupational pension schemes, - on the processing of Passenger Name Record data. These are printers 2442, 2486 and 2481 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Road Traffic Law Act and certain other laws, - concerning the social pension law, - special arrangements to support persons with significant disabilities, - on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints No 2485, 2488, 2489 and 2487 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on the management of the successful business of a natural person. This is print number 2454. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees submitted a report on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016. This is print number 2467. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of information. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft act on Central Communication Port. This is print number 2473. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for consideration of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point: First reading of the Government bill on Central Communication Port, print No 2473, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 241, against 164, with four abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, contained in print No 2476. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was an objection to the completion of the agenda for this report. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following item: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity of the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, No 2460 and No 2476, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 287 Members voted. The vote was 220, against 66, with one abstention. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the Circle in a joint discussion on the projects related to the Law on Higher Education and Science. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle in discussions on: - a draft law on the protection of personal data, - information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in joint discussions on: - draft laws concerning the termination of international agreements, - draft resolutions on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation concerning the tax on goods and services and excise duties. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing a European Molecular Biology Laboratory. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting of the Sejm information on the modernisation of Polish aviation, which was proposed by the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Amber Gold case investigator. 10.15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Public Finance - h.m. 11.45, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12.15, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12.15, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 13, - Amber Gold case investigator. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - Social and Family Policy together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 10 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 5:30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 18, - Public Finance - hour. 18, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 7:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u3	Thank you, sir. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government's draft Personal Data Protection Act (Print No 2410). I ask the Minister of Digitization of Mr Marek Zagórski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, a draft law on the protection of personal data supplementing and detailing Regulation No 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which, to be made clear, will apply directly in the Polish legal order and will apply from 25 May 2018. In particular, the proposal regulates the issues which the EU legislature has left for the decisions of the Member States. The new Personal Data Protection Act will replace the existing... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u5	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to leave the sitting room if anyone is not interested in what the Minister says. The Members concerned are saying that they do not hear the Minister, so I ask for silence in respect of the office and this House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, I'll try to speak more loudly. The new Personal Data Protection Act, as I said, will replace the existing regulation in this area since 1997. It is obvious that personal data is in today's, especially the digital world, a commodity like any other. We live in times where it is difficult to keep our privacy, and our personal data may fall into the wrong hands and be abused in accordance with our intentions. The Personal Data Protection Act and the EU Regulation are the answers to these realities. Answers in which it was recognised that, as the owners of personal data, we have the full right to have them at our discretion and that the use of such data should be subject to sanctions. The importance of regulation of personal data has a global dimension, because it affects each of us, and technological development makes the opportunities of the virtual world increase as we operate in it. At the same time, we must remember that data, including personal data, is a specific oil of the 21st century and at the same time an opportunity for the development of companies and the entire economy, and access to them is an opportunity to build new, creative businesses. So creating a new law in this area, it is vital to remember About opportunities, but also about threats. How difficult it was to ensure a proper balance between these two extremes, let it be borne out by the fact that the legislative process for creating GDPR was one of the longer ones in the history of the European Union. The creation of the bill was preceded by numerous meetings dedicated to entrepreneurs, non-governmental organisations, representatives of churches and religious unions. or citizens. In the course of the public consultation which was formally ongoing until 13 October 2017, more than 110 organisations and citizens submitted their opinions to the Act, which made a total of 640 comments. The position of the Minister of Digitisation regarding the comments made during the consultation of the draft Personal Data Protection Act was discussed in detail at the conference held in the column room of the Sejm on 15 January 2018. The transparency of the bill-making process was very important. These efforts have been recognised by the social partners. As indicated by the Panoptykon Foundation, the Ministry of Digitalization ensured that the work on the implementation of the GDPR was not carried out under pressure of time, and gave all stakeholders more than 30 days to present their positions. For months, experts from the Ministry of Digitalization have announced the fundamental assumptions of the reform and the planned actions of the government in the media, which has also fostered transparency and social engagement. Since the beginning of our legislative work, our aim has been to improve the enforcement process in Poland of breaches of personal data protection rules by establishing an effective body for the protection of personal data. The proposal provides for the appointment of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, which will replace the existing General Data Protection Officer. The President of the Office will be appointed for a four-year term by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland with the consent of the Senate, and in the performance of his duties will be subject only to the Act. The President of the Office will support a larger number of deputies - now there is one, and the law assumes that there will be three of them - and the advisory body for him is to be appointed in the draft Board for Personal Data Protection. The Council will, through its contribution, be a forum for representation of positions of different backgrounds. Similar bodies have been working very successfully in other legal orders for years, e.g. in Austria, supporting data protection authorities. The Council will be composed of eight members and candidates appointed by the President of the Office will be able to submit inter alia. Council of Ministers, chambers of commerce, scientific units and foundations and associations. The Council will be appointed for a two-year term. The project also provides for mechanisms to reduce the length of proceedings due to breaches of personal data protection rules. The provisions contained in the draft prejudge that no more than 30 days are allowed to be checked on breaches of personal data protection rules. We also introduce rules of civil and criminal liability for breach of personal data protection rules. The Penalization will include intentional breaches of ordinary data, sensitive data and obstruction of compliance controls by the data protection authority. The project details the level of financial penalties for public authorities which may be imposed by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Maximum penalty for a public body within the meaning of Article. The 9th Public Finance Act amounts to 100,000 according to the project. PLN, while for cultural institutions - 10,000. zł. The Act introduces new, commercial data solutions. First of all, it is important to mention the certification mechanism, which will confirm that the institution processes personal data correctly, ensuring protection of privacy. The certificate will be issued by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection or by bodies accredited by the Polish Accreditation Centre. This will have a positive impact on increasing customer confidence in a company that will have such a certificate or citizens' confidence in public authorities. Another option provided for in the Act is the Code of Conduct, which will constitute a set of good practices for the processing of personal data, taking into account the characteristics of the environment concerned. The Codes respond to the difficulties arising from the fact that the EU regulation does not explicitly state how personal data should be protected. The guidelines created by industry representatives, in which processing activities are repeatable and easily identifiable, will provide specific guidelines on privacy protection. The Code drawn up and consulted will have to be submitted to the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection in order to verify its compliance with the GDPR. Once successfully completed, the Code will be a set of binding guidelines for the protection of personal data dedicated to entities operating in a specific environment. The project also requires the President of the Office to issue recommendations dedicated to specific sectors and indicating possible ways of securing personal data in specific sectors. Their immediate edition is certainly counted on Polish entrepreneurs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Personal Data Protection Act is a compromise between the freedom of economic activity that the government particularly cares about and the need to protect citizens' privacy. When presenting this proposal, I ask the High House to accept it kindly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present our position on the government's draft Personal Data Protection Act, contained in print No 2410. Today's governmental submission concerns the protection of personal data and results from the need to apply from 25 May 2018 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of personal data of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 of the European Community. The Regulation is more known as the Personal Data Protection Regulation, i.e. the so-called Regulation. GDPR. It is worth recalling here that the regulation will apply, as the Minister said, in all the countries of the European Union, and will be binding on all those who process personal data. The Regulation will be an act directly applicable in each Member State which is required to effectively apply the provisions of the Regulation in its legal order. The GDPR Regulation therefore harmonises the principles of the protection of personal data in the European Union and thus the application of the law by data protection authorities, so the government has developed a new law on the protection of personal data which will replace the 1997 Personal Data Protection Act. A new competent authority for the protection of personal data, to which the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, will be established. The President of the Office and his office will be the successor of the General Data Protection Officer. The President of the Office of Personal Data will appoint the Sejm for the term of office to ensure full independence of the President during this period. The body assisting the President of the Office shall be the Board for Personal Data Protection. Detailed information on the competence of this board has been included in the draft law. I'm not going to present them in detail here. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The new provisions on the protection of personal data clearly state that personal data are information that allows the identification of a natural person. This may be information, starting with your name, PESEL number, IP number, location data or data that reveals the history of our favorite purchases. All information collected about a person that allows him to be identified is therefore personal data. Therefore, the Act under discussion today applies to the natural persons concerned in relation to the processing of these data. I would point out that the law does not apply to the protection of legal persons concerned. The GDPR Regulation lays down the rules for the processing of personal data which affect the data subject. Data processors are institutions that process them on a large scale. These are both public entities and data-processing operators, different analytical institutions which, due to the nature or purpose of the activity, require monitoring. All these entities must have a designated personal data protection officer. Each inspector will be notified in the light of the new rules. However, the Act does not specify the specific qualifications that the Data Controller should have. The choice of the inspector, and therefore his skills, will always be the responsibility of the administrator, in whose interest it is for the inspector to carry out his tasks properly. It will be up to the new inspectors and administrators to comply with the rules and procedures for obtaining consent for the processing of personal data. It is worth recalling that, in the light of the GDPR regulation, consent to the processing of our personal data must be voluntary, specific, conscious. This means that consent forms must be written in a clear language and in a clear way. Any natural person who consents to the processing of his or her data is to be aware that he or she has given such consent. If she does not have such awareness, then actually such consent will be expressed improperly. The consent to the processing of data will have to be properly recorded by each controller and will be subject to detailed checks. Anyone who consents to the processing of data may withdraw it at the appropriate time. It's important that we're aware of that. The GDPR Regulation also protects children under the age of 13 whose data can be processed with parental consent. The Regulation confers on individuals the right to have access to the information concerned, the right to request the rectification and completion of personal data, the right to object to the processing of data, the right to transfer data and the right to be forgotten. These are issues which are very clearly highlighted in this regulation. All these rights of natural persons will be subject to the control of the President of the Office of Personal Data. Violation of the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act will be prosecuted under Polish law in accordance with administrative proceedings by the President of the Office. Decisions will be issued by the President of the Office as a competent authority in matters of personal data protection and will be brought before the administrative court. This draft law lays down the principle that fundamental sanctions for breaching personal data protection rules will be imposed on the controller or the processor of the financial penalties concerned. The amount of these penalties was also presented by the Minister in his speech. On the other hand, criminal penalties are foreseen for obstructing controls by authorities which are entitled to monitor the application of the data protection rules. In this draft law, the government proposed that all persons who act as an information security administrator under the current law should have until 1 September 2018 to register as a personal data controller. All persons who are today responsible for data security must make an informed decision as to whether they wish to act as a personal data controller and submit a notification to the President of the Office. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In view of the importance of the draft Personal Data Protection Act, the Law and Justice Club recommends further investigation of this project in the relevant committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u9	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Carrot from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u10	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we are discussing is one of the most important acts adopted by the Sejm of the current term of office. GDPR is a word that has been changed thousands of times in recent months by all cases, by all those who process personal data. The aim of the project is to adapt to Polish law the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Each Member State shall ensure its effective application in its legal order by adopting the relevant internal rules. The regulation will begin to be an act directly applicable and directly effective in several days. These provisions shall be addressed to all entities which collect or use personal data of natural persons. Since 25 May 2018, all companies, offices, schools, NGOs and not only will have to comply with these requirements. In today's world, every piece of information has its price, while personal data has become the currency of the 21st century for many and are at the weight of gold. For this they are often used without knowledge and against the will of those who own this data. Therefore, the regulation of the EU institutions is intended to give citizens a guarantee of security and a fresh look at their privacy issues. The Regulation applies to practically every data processor and guarantees citizens an important right to privacy. This includes, first, the right to be forgotten, i.e. the right to permanently delete personal data processed by the entity, second, the right to request the transfer of data, i.e. the possibility to transfer personal data to another entity when changing the contract, thirdly, the extended right to information on what data, for which purpose and by whom data are processed, fourthly, the right to access personal data of the data subject and fifthly the extended right to object to the processing of data. These are important tools that guarantee citizens the security of their data and a sense of privacy. The process of implementing EU legislation and preparing a new draft law on the protection of personal data took many months. During the work on the law, fortunately, many changes were made, which were recommended by the social side during the public consultation. For example, initially small and medium-sized enterprises could hope that GDPR would not concern them. The Ministry of Development wanted to exclude them from the information obligation. This would mean that their customers and as much as 99% Polish companies employ less than 250 people, they would cease to be informed about what is happening to their data. However, these records were withdrawn by the Ministry from the draft of this Act. The General Data Protection Officer carried out a study which shows that only 8% more than two months ago entrepreneurs have started the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation in their enterprise. Entrepreneurs pointed out that there was no basic aid from public authorities to comply with the new rules. In their view, in particular, the shortcomings concern, firstly, broader information for small companies which do not know to what extent the General Data Protection Regulation applies to them, secondly, education on new obligations, thirdly, to discuss the changes in the General Data Protection Regulation of profiling rules and risk-based approaches and accountability, fourthly, guidelines on new obligations explained on specific examples, fifthly communication on the General Data Protection Regulation on the Internet. The last such doubts concern the lack of online training, in particular in the form of e-learning. The Ministry of Digitalisation has prepared only an electronic guide, which is essentially the only form of support for entrepreneurs in implementing the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. However, it is mostly an interpretation of the provisions of the Regulation, which is not a step-by-step guide to how the trader is to behave in a new situation. Under these circumstances, government action should be directed towards explaining how to carry out the process of change rather than translating the content of individual rules. What the Ministry has done in this area is far from enough. In this respect, there is considerable doubt about the resolution of the authority responsible for supervising the compliance with the data protection rules, which is the General Data Protection Officer, and replacing it with the new Personal Data Protection Office. None of the provisions of the Regulation require a change to the authority responsible for supervising these data. As experience has shown so far, the current model of GIODO's status and independence guarantees provides very high standards and meets the requirements of the Regulation for supervisory authorities. Furthermore, GIODO has become a recognizable body dealing with these issues. Over 95% Entrepreneurs shall identify this entity as being responsible for the protection of personal data. It's more than 20 years of experience that the Ministry wants to destroy. Therefore, it is worth asking about the costs of such a change - both financial, legal and social - regarding the recognition of GIODO in the awareness of entrepreneurs, public administration and above all citizens. It seems unreasonable to bear such costs where a change in the name of the authority is not required by the Regulation. Fortunately, the provisions concerning the appointment of the Deputy President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data by the Prime Minister were withdrawn from the protection of the independence of the personal data protection authority from the point of view of guaranteeing the independence of the personal data protection authority, which would indicate an attempt to subordinate such an important function to the executive authority. And one last thing. Today, around 150 people work at GIODO. Additional money is necessary for this institution to hire another 100 people and create new jobs. This is the minimum that will allow to carry out so far numerous tasks resulting from the GDPR. Even if the budget is frozen in May because it is currently in the budget reserve, it will be too late. For how are the reports of personal data breaches to be accepted, including data leaks, in what program, on what equipment, who will receive and consider these reports? After all, it takes time to prepare tenders, buy equipment, servers, or hire additional people. And these are the doubts we're paying attention to.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u11	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In my speech, I would like to focus on the formal side of the legislation under discussion. As the bill is extremely important, we are all aware. It actually affects all Poles and interferes in almost all areas of action of the state. Therefore, we, as the Sejm, should do our utmost to ensure that these regulations are adopted. What's our situation? The first reading takes place on 8 May and the provisions of the Act should enter into force on 25 May. It's a dozen days. The fact that the bill should enter into force on May 25, we've known for at least two years. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union entered into force on 25 May 2016. We have been working too long in the Council of Ministers, in the government in this area, and today we are in a difficult situation: we know that we must adopt this law at this meeting of the Sejm. This is extremely difficult. The law is extensive, the law is valid, the law contains many points that need to be discussed in detail. We may be able to do this, but there is still a Senate that has 30 days, and there is a president who has 21 days. All of this makes it extremely difficult for these regulations to enter into force on May 25th. The question is whether they must enter into force on May 25th. After all, some of the provisions of the European Regulation will enter into our legal system in any case. There is another problem: When will there be a law containing provisions on the protection of personal data? The name of the law itself suggests that it should be passed before the basic law, or at least together with that law. In the meantime, we don't even know when this bill will be made. She's gonna change over 200 laws. When are we gonna prepare all this? Minister! Would it not be better if, however, we waited until the introduction of the law, and agreed it together? Wouldn't that make more sense? Will the introduction of only and exclusively the provisions of this law not result in more perturbation than benefits? Anyway, Mr. Marshal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform club is in favour of referring the law to work in committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u13	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government's draft Personal Data Protection Act aims to implement EU law or to adapt Polish legislation to the applicable EU regulations on GDPR, which in any case will become applicable in Poland from 25 May 2018. The Act shall apply to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data within the scope laid down in Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the repeal of the previous Directive. This law sets out a number of aspects that relate to the protection of personal data, including the protection of personal data. specify the public entities required to appoint a personal data protection officer and the procedure for notification of his designation, the conditions and procedures for accreditation of the certification body, the monitoring body of the code of conduct, the certification procedure, the procedure for the approval of the code of conduct, the competent authority on the protection of personal data, the infringement procedure for the protection of personal data, the European administrative cooperation procedure, the control of compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data or civil liability for the breach of those rules and the proceedings before the court. The Act will also regulate the procedure for notification of personal data protection inspectors and matters relating to entities obliged in the Polish legal order to appoint this controller, as well as the issue of the creation of a new national system for the protection of personal data, headed by a supervisory authority, which according to the designer should be the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data. This is a new supervisory authority which, in terms of its competence, including, for example, to impose administrative financial penalties, will be significantly different from the current office, i.e. the General Data Protection Officer. The Act regulates the procedure for dealing with breaches of data protection rules. This is mainly aimed at preventing the ongoing chronicity of these proceedings by abolishing the administrative duality in order to obtain judicial protection more quickly. Here, the organ has the possibility. A provision is also introduced in the Act, in the light of which the investigation of data breach cases may not last more than one month. In addition, according to the Act, the President is required to issue recommendations addressed to entrepreneurs regarding the principle of the protection of personal data. The draft regulates civil liability issues for infringements of these provisions, which is important, reduces the penalty resulting from the Regulation. The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection will also be able to request a legislative initiative in matters relating to the protection of personal data. These are just some of the elements that this project introduces. The project, which actually in some sense also alleviates the elements that the GDPR introduces, which would still apply in Poland, whether we implement this law or not. And really personal data and their protection is one of the basic elements today. In a cipherized society, in which personal data is, to a large extent, a commodity of the highest importance or a commodity that is very desirable, this is of great importance. We need to focus very much on this, especially since in many other situations we are opening up new access to this personal data. We give them to the next service, the next institution. We are expanding our capacity to collect personal data about the citizens of Poland, citizens of the Union, and therefore it is necessary to introduce maximum security systems for the protection of personal data, systems that will not allow us to abuse those rights, which we give to very different services, because there are no specific restrictions in the laws on specific services. There are very few safety valves that protect us against our personal data being used inappropriately or not over-used by individual services and institutions. This also applies to the trading of data within the functioning of companies or to the general market. However, there are two fundamental problems with this law. First of all, this is what has already been mentioned here. In fact, we had two years to deal with this law, and in fact there was probably a very serious consultation, work was done on this law, but at the end the most important institution, which is the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, receives in principle 2.5 days for this law to be carried out by the Sejm. For 2.5 days we are to bend over a very serious law concerning all Poles in a huge and very sensitive range. That's practically impossible to do. We get this bill, very serious and big, in the middle of May weekend, suddenly we're going to take care of it and do it again, push it in the knee. Ladies and gentlemen! These are not the rules of good legislation, because we take responsibility for something that we are not fully able to handle and work honestly. This is something that it would really be worth thinking about, that we, parliamentarians, should not put ourselves in this position, because then we are accused of being a bad law. How are we supposed to make a good law in two and a half days with such a serious bill? It's a huge problem, and it's not the first law that's being processed like this. Yesterday we had a bill on the transfer of passenger data on air travel - exactly the same. In a few days, this law must enter into force because this is what EU law requires. And again, we have three days to consider and adopt a very serious law that extends access to sensitive personal data. This isn't right. Moreover, in that project we use the name of the data protection officer's general institution at many points, so we will be updating that law in a moment. In my opinion, the order is also disturbed here and this is not how it should be. If we have such an important law, perhaps it would be worthwhile to first proceed over this and then over the second one, which refers to the new formula of the organisation of the entity responsible for the protection of personal data. So it's a matter of reflection, Minister. It's really not the opposition's malice, but maybe we should do things according to a certain schedule, because I can't imagine how the Senate is going to lean on it. He's gonna do it again by pushing his knee. In this way, we will not be able to make a good law. Of course, we as a Kukiz club15 understand the need for these rules, so we are in favour of directing this to further proceding. On the other hand, it is absolutely difficult for us to agree with such a formula, with such a procedure and with such action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Pudłowski from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! With the great sympathy that I have with the Minister, I would like to say that, at this point in my opinion, we should take this lightly, but I cannot. Mr Józwiak has just drawn attention to the 2.5 days you are giving us. But it's not two and a half days. You've been working on this a lot longer. I remember the debate at the Committee on Digital Affairs, Innovation and Modern Technology more than a year ago when we pointed out that time is short, the issue is very difficult and the situation requires proper presentation and implementation. Where we are today, you've heard. I mean, first of all, either way this law, this European regulation will enter into force on 25 May, whether we make it on this 2.5 day or not. We have a draft law that clarifies our internal, national arrangements for these matters - I am about to address a few important issues - but we are still missing the issue of introducing these regulations. This is the most important thing. We will therefore have a phase of this legal chaos when, on the one hand, the regulations we adopted earlier, mainly in 1997, but not only, and on the other hand, we will already have a GDPR regulation that will enter on 25 May. There was a time for this, unless someone read into interviews with Anna Streżyńska's then minister of digitalization and read that this government does not support digitalization, this government does not rely on digitization. This government bets on historical correctness, on monuments, of course there is time, attraction and money. However, it does not focus on digitization and queues many important resolutions, many important projects that were created in the Ministry, but encountered a political barrier. Maybe that's why the current Minister of Digitization was forced to move to the PiS, from the PiS Agreement. If so, maybe there's hope that digitalization will finally enter this government. I also wanted to refer to where you are directing this bill. You are directing it not to the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technology, not because the chairman of this committee is not a PiS man. Because if that were the case, you'd ask this man to sign over to the PiS, and then you'd head over there and that's where it's gonna be processed. You can't make the law that way. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the most important regulations in the area of digitalisation. It has been pointed out how easy it is to process personal data, share, transmit, but at the same time how difficult it is to control how important the cybersecurity aspect is these days. Unfortunately, here we are. You fell down. A few things I wanted to point out. First of all, stand by for the administration. The readiness of the public administration, with all the exclusions you are talking about, is low. I'm talking system preparation, programming and process preparation. Have you changed the service processes in all ministries, in all state institutions, to respond to GDPR? Did you train the staff of the ministry to know how to react? We can still perform a very simple test today by calling several places and checking whether employees know what GDPR stands for. I'll tell you, entrepreneurs don't know what GDPR means. Most entrepreneurs don't know. Perhaps it's because they're working hard on other cases. But even though you tried, because I agree that there were some good initiatives to explain what GDPR is, it was not effective. We know that today there is huge chaos among entrepreneurs who are trying to understand what it means for them: whether they need to change business processes or need to anoint someone, is ABI or ABI need to change or doesn't require a new function. A simple instruction is missing, on two or three pages, so that the entrepreneur can find himself. People just don't know it. And I stress that on 25 May this regulation enters into force. Whether we like it or not, penalisation can be effective, i.e. an entrepreneur who does not comply with the regulation, may be subject to up to EUR 20 million. [[Punishment.]] Punishment. But even 2,000. Euros, up to 2 000. PLN or $1,000. PLN for the vast majority of Polish entrepreneurs it is something that spoils their ability to function, therefore it is so important. Another thing - the name. I don't know what you have with names. What's wrong with GIODO, what's wrong with the name GIODO? It's gonna be called UODO now. I ignore the fact that it's hard to pronounce, but why change it? We're talking about the need for money for the disabled, that you don't have it, you want to give it in the goods, and here, you don't know why we're changing the name of the institution. GIODO is already identified with the General Data Protection Officer. Indeed, the scope of his work will be different, he will also deal with something else, but whether it justifies changing the name and bearing enormous costs. Imagine even changing the street name, how much bureaucracy it is, and here we are talking about a very important national office, which exists, operates in very many places. We believe that this is completely unnecessary. Another issue - the issue of the 8th Personal Data Protection Board. We do not think that this is necessary as a consequence of the expensive body, because you are talking about 5% of the national average that will belong to these people for each meeting. We think that this amount could be lower, first of all, and I think the council could be less numerous too. Another issue raised by social organisations is the use of cameras, among others. in schools. We think that this issue could be much better clarified, taking into account the dignity of students and researchers. There are places where we think the use of cameras is unjustified, and in the bill we're discussing, we could use the moment to clarify it clearly. Another thing is 1 month for inspection or the course of the whole procedure. With regard to the course of the whole procedure, it appears from the current experience of GIODO that this is, however, too short. Divide, I recognize the limit to 1 month of the same operations when we allow the established control centres to stay with the trader. Because it's actually very difficult to stay longer and use staff, because that's what happens, especially in small companies, to dedicate a particular employee throughout the inspection period to share information of all kinds, make copies, answer questions... It's too long. So that I think there could be such a compromise that we limit control to 1 month, but we give e.g. 2 or 3 weeks more to carry out the whole procedure. As my previous speakers pointed out, this is difficult and will be even more difficult. Imagine control. in a bank that has a number of systems where personal data functions. Carrying out this audit is one thing, preparing the final report and drawing conclusions is another. I think the new authority should still have some time to do its own thing, over this 1 month. Another thing is that social organisations - which I very much like - may be a party to proceedings as a result of this law. This is very good, because the entrepreneur is lost in the cloud of the various rules that we introduce, and the social organisation that focuses on these issues will be very helpful. However, I do not know why we ended the possibility of serving a social organization at the stage of legal proceedings. It seems that their presence would also be appropriate at the stage of possible judicial proceedings. Another thing I've already said, but I'll stress it. It seems to me that because you have been betting on the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technology over this period, let's say, 1.5 years, not 2 years, but 1.5 years, and we have met several times to talk about it, and we have had a dialogue on what shape this law is going to take, the exclusion now from working on this law of our committee is, to say the least, not elegant, I think. Apart from the influence of our Members who know this law, they know issues related to digitalisation, they know issues related to databases of personal data. We also have IT guys. So that we can sort this out very comprehensively, and it seems to me that the exclusion of our committee is wrong. We are, of course, waiting for the introductory provisions. This chaos, which we will witness, can have legal consequences, so that the sooner the government adopts the introductory solutions, the better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u17	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Łopa, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law on the protection of personal data. We are in the process of discussing a draft law which is, as it were, complementary to European law, namely the European Parliament and Council Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 - as you said here earlier - on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 of the European Community. It is worth noting that this regulation will apply directly in the Polish legal order, and this will happen, as it has already rained many times, just since 25 May this year. This means that Polish law cannot be - or should not be - contrary to the provisions of the regulation. High Seym! Today is 8 May 2018, the regulation is, as I said, 27 April 2016. Over two years it has taken the government to change its regulations, and Parliament remains, I am milder here, let's say two weeks if we were sitting not only as a Sejm, but also as a Senate, and of course in this legislative process is the President. I think it is unnecessary to comment here, given also the statements made by my predecessors, Members. High Izbo! Currently, in Poland, the law of 29 August 1997 on the protection of personal data is in force. This law also contains provisions contrary to the content of the Regulation and those not covered by the Regulation. So there was a need or necessity, as the government argues - and it is probably true - to draw up a new law, new rules. In the draft of this new law, the government adopted the scope of the regulation that is relevant to the scope of the regulation. It was also not decided to restrict the application of personal data protection rules only to the processing of data in connection with the activities carried out by the administrative unit of the controller or the processor in Poland. The government has decided in this proposal to introduce provisions defining the scope of the provisions on the protection of personal data for the national security of the State. The draft law also regulates the procedure for notifying personal data protection inspectors and entities required in the Polish legal order to appoint a personal data protection officer. The draft law proposes that the obligation to appoint a Data Protection Officer should apply only to the catalogue of cases described in the Regulation. It has not been decided to extend those concerned in the situation of compulsory appointment of an inspector arising directly from the provisions of the Regulation. High Izbo! The draft law also describes the rules of certification and the procedure. It was proposed that in the Polish legal system the supervisory authority, which we know will be the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection and the certification bodies whose competence will be determined by the President of the Office. The certification shall be carried out at the request of the controller or processor, the manufacturer or the entity placing the service or product on the market. The certification criteria, as I said earlier, will be defined by the President of the Office, but in this case the Board for Personal Data Protection will have a role. The Council will - whether it is to be - consultative body and its task will be to evaluate draft documents of the bodies and institutions of the European Union, but also to evaluate draft legal acts submitted by the President of the Office. The Act also proposes to regulate the amount of the fee charged for certification activities by the President of the Office. High Seym! Regulation 2016/679 lays down, in principle, the need for Member States to establish a new national system for the protection of personal data. According to this project, the supervisory authority will be the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. In accordance with the Regulation, it is also intended to be an element of the protection of the personal data in relation to the processing of tasks and the exercise of other powers in the manner described, completely independent. The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection will also have significantly enhanced powers and competences in relation to the general competence of the Data Protection Officer, and therefore, it is possible to explain the change of this institution. It will therefore also be a supervisory authority and will be entitled to impose administrative financial penalties. The imposition of financial penalties, I understand, in connection with the failure to comply with the provisions of the Act. In the explanation, the explanatory memorandum motivates the need to speed up proceedings and proposes to reduce bi-instance. This raises doubts in us because it seems that even the best intentions cannot destroy the standards of the democratic state and the possibility of appeal. The granting of the authority's powers to self-control, as recorded, is, in our opinion, a parody of bi-instantity. This raises considerable legal doubts. And since we are in criminal proceedings and financial penalties, it is worth noting that the grounds for imposing penalties, as well as their maximum amounts, are directly derived from that Regulation, 2016/679. However, it is possible for Member States to regulate this matter in detail, and the proposal proposes that penalties be imposed on public authorities and bodies such as the National Bank of Poland, research institutions, public finance institutions up to 100,000. zł, e.g. cultural institutions will, of course, be able to be punished by a maximum of 10 000 in the event of a breach of the provisions of the Act. zł. This follows, I think, from a certain logic of the activities of cultural units, especially in small towns, but also from the general principle that culture is treated in a special way both in the system, administrative, criminal, civil and tax regulations. High Seym! An important regulation, a major change, is the need for the controller or processor to set up a data protection officer within their organisational structure. This obligation arises from the provisions of the Regulation. This resulted in some naming complications, e.g. due to the lack of any systemic relationship between these persons and the supervisory authority enforcing compliance with the provisions of the Regulation in Poland. It's also kind of an explanation for changing names, I think. High Izbo! Regulation 2016/679, as I have already said, is an act directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union, and at the heart of this reform there is a need to ensure a consistent and uniform level of protection of personal data throughout the Union and to ensure the free movement of personal data and to facilitate the functioning of businesses in the single market. These issues, which the regulation leaves to regulate and clarify, I hope, are included in this proposal. So, on behalf of the club, I'm asking for further work on the Sejm Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u19	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. And Mr Paweł Arndt from the Civic Platform will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to get back to the case we talked about earlier, i.e. matters relating to the provisions implementing the Personal Data Protection Act. These rules should come as soon as possible. One, among others. regulate or amend the provisions of more than 200 laws. I'd like to know when this bill is actually going to be held by the Sejm. This is extremely important and that is what we expect. There's another point I wanted to raise. Actually, not many countries have adopted the Personal Data Protection Act at the moment. These are among others. Germany. And in their law, the Germans regulated the issue of video surveillance in quite detail. I wanted to ask you what it's gonna be like for us. Mr Pudłowski, President Pudłowski has already raised the issue here, among others. monitoring or cameras in classrooms in schools, but it's also monitoring in our cities, it's monitoring in electoral locations, which we expect to introduce in the near future. Doesn't the Minister think that this matter should also be regulated in our Polish legislation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u21	Thank you. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether the introduction of this law will limit the trade in personal data collections, the online distribution of personal data, the use of commercial and advertising correspondence, leading to the blocking of online accounts of recipients, as well as the threat to the intent of the owner of the bank account and personal data to have financial resources available online. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u23	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u24	Dear Marshal, Minister! In the process of working on this bill, attention has been repeatedly paid to the non-justifiability of reducing the age of a child, in which he himself may consent to the processing of personal data in connection with the use of information society services. The effects of such measures should be considered primarily in the social context. Many children of this age are unaware of the consequences of their actions. These issues are often related to so-called disclosure. It's just a private matter. And it should not be forgotten that in today's world, on the Internet, we are unfortunately dealing with a number of threats that, unfortunately, can adversely affect the functioning and upbringing of young people. I therefore ask the Minister: What is the specific reason for age reduction in terms of the possibility of using personal data and decisions taken by children from 16 to 13 years of age in this regard, because the EU regulation assumes this age at the level of 16 years? These were actions that were indicated, among others. by the institutions involved in the public consultation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u25	Thank you. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question to the Minister: Isn't the fact that we're so late on this project the result of the fact that for a long time, at a time when we should be investigating this important law, there was a constitutional minister at the Ministry of Digitalization? This also has a negative impact on the economy, because it has been used and created a kind of business in terms of entrepreneurs. There are trainings for entrepreneurs in the field of GDPR, EU regulations. Entrepreneurs are very concerned about this. And here, using the presence of your Chief Data Protection Officer, I would like to ask: Are there any facilitations for entrepreneurs in other countries? Are there any transitional periods planned? Are we here, for example? In this introductory act, will there be such elements? It's just that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have a transition period, a time to adapt to it. Second question, actually, a statement. In fact, the new office will also be a single person. The fact that it's going to be called the Personal Data Protection Office, not the GIODO, the Chief Inspector... The Authority is not a regulator here, an authority. The president will be the organ. Some people here were wrong about it, so why change it? I mean, it's been said by most people here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u27	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Entrepreneurs face extremely high, multimillion-dollar penalties for violating GDPR regulations. In Poland, the legislator proposes a significant reduction in penalties for public sector entities, i.e. we have a situation, for example. private higher education may be punished for breach of the rules, e.g. in the amount of PLN 200 million and public school for the same violation - a penalty of PLN 100,000. zł. There is therefore a question of constitutional equality between entities and the law. I wanted to ask you to clarify this situation, ask you why the penalties were differentiated, which was decided to introduce in Poland. And I wanted to ask you: How does the government plan to make information about GDPR regulations public? Because, unfortunately, not everyone listens to your PiS TV. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u29	Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland we have 112 thousand. associations and 22,000. Foundation. There are also third-century universities among associations and foundations. It is an environment, an environment of third-century universities, and its listeners are terrified, first of all, that the law appeared in the Seym so late, because it was only in April and the regulations entered into force on 25 May. This law imposes specific obligations on those entities, associations, foundations to be fulfilled within a very short period of time, which has been introduced for this process. This is very sad because we have the impression that this environment, the environment of NGOs in our country, has been largely left to itself. The truth is that at the moment NGOs need to obtain consent to the processing of personal data from all interested persons whose data are processed. Secondly, the GDPR supposedly exempts the obligation to record the harvest, but in practice everyone should keep such a register. Minister! Aren't those actions you've taken late? Is communication [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the environment of non-governmental organisations is at a sufficient level? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I also wanted to ask you a few questions, actually already discussed here, in this seym. There will be a very disturbing situation in a moment. Implementation of the GDPR law requires the introduction of special procedures in general in all institutions, associations and health services. This really applies to everyone. It goes on here, for example. about the collection of signatures under applications which are submitted to, for example, our parliamentary offices or various institutions, as well as the collection of signatures under civil billings. What's next with those personal data that are often copied, replicated? How should they be stored, and who will really be responsible for it? Why is such a serious project, which has such a huge impact, being processed in a big hurry, without the possibility of extensive discussion, an in-depth analysis? I can already imagine what it's gonna be like in the committee meeting. Wide social education is needed. Is such social education planned and when will it be conducted? After all, this also applies to us, citizens, every citizen, so that everyone knows their rights and uses them. And the last question is, in this situation, does the government intend to withdraw from the installation of cameras in the polls and when? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u33	Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is worth realizing that this law will apply to everyone. Everyone, Minister, should have information on how his personal data will be protected. Every citizen. And you have done nothing about it. 25 May is the date of entry into force of the GDPR. I do not know at what stage of preparation are public institutions, even government, self-government, and all that store any personal data. So I wanted to ask, like my previous speakers, when and how will you carry out an information campaign? Will the Ministry find such proverbial ABCs on its website so that today, through this form of rapid communication, it is possible to get acquainted with and have a compendium of knowledge about the introduction of this solution? You are introducing this country and the deadline is full, the GDPR regulation enters on 25 May, and there are no introductory provisions, as Mr Arndt said. I've known the Minister since 2001, I thought you could keep an eye on that term. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But in this respect, the absence of this provision will certainly make it difficult. Therefore, details belong not only to us but to every citizen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u35	Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the discrepancies in your assessment of the change that you are making to this project, and which you first call a key system regulation, so that later, a few paragraphs further, you can write that it has only a sequencing dimension. I am thinking here of changing the General Data Protection Officer to the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection and at the same time changes concerning inspectors, existing office staff who will be called Controllers. This is one discrepancy, one doubt, one question: Why do you have such a huge difference between a few sentences in your assessment of this change? And I'd like to ask you about the costs of this change, get to know them. I am thinking about the financial costs here, but above all, it is perhaps the most important, the social costs that we will bear, however, by making this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have not yet had the opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment as Minister of Digitization, so I would like to congratulate you. Minister, what can I say? Of course, I congratulate you, but I can see that the Ministry immediately moved out of the hoof, so I will say colloquially, because yes: when it comes to the NIS directive, which we should implement in a day, two, there is unfortunately a delay, the CEPiK we are moving, and now we have the GDPR issue. My first question is this, Minister, please answer: Why has this gone to another committee, why will the committee of digitalization no longer deal with this subject? Anyway, we've spent some time, I think we're being implemented as committee members. And now the new committee will have to move forward, as my colleague Bartosz Józwiak said. For them, it is certainly a problem because they dealt with other subjects. And now the second thing, Minister, is very important to me too. On 13 April, at the committee meeting, on a question concerning these penalties, 20,000. Euro - there were questions about the fact that barbershops will be punished with penalties of 20,000. The euro - you replied: You can imagine, of course, such consequences that the day after the GDPR enters into force, employees of the general inspection of personal data, because they will still be in such a situation, will start the process of severely punishing entrepreneurs that they have not prepared themselves. But let's talk about real things, not slightly absurd things. That's not gonna happen. Once again, we're hoping we can make it. And once again, what I'm saying is that we've come to the point where we're here is because of how many factors that have contributed to this, that we may not make it in time, Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question, Minister: What can you do to ensure that these entrepreneurs are not punished? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the first question is similar to the questions of my previous speakers: Why is it so late? After all, these are the last moments for this bill to be introduced. As usual, we will have to do everything at the last minute - quick work in committee, in order to adopt this law as soon as possible, practically without the possibility of any extended debate. And entrepreneurs are also afraid that they will not be able to implement this and adapt their businesses to this law on time. But I would also like to ask what the Panoptykon Foundation recently noticed - that after this law, school heads will be able to decide about installing cameras not only in schools but also in school toilets and lockers. Will you, Minister, allow the directors to install cameras in places like toilets? Or locker rooms? Because as far as I know, it's not allowed to install cameras, whether in toilets or in school lockers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u41	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Digitization of Mr Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer all the questions you have asked, I hope. Maybe I'll start with a few general things that went around here and some misunderstandings. First of all, once again, it must be made clear that we are talking about the entry of May 25, this is the entry the implementation of the EU GDPR Regulation. This regulation imposes a whole range of obligations that you have spoken of and which you have indicated that these obligations are coming under the law or will come under the law that we are debating. Once again, I stress that it is clear: all your concerns about the fact that, as a result of the failure to adopt this law, entrepreneurs did not have time to adapt, etc., but are wrong and false, that these obligations were imposed on entrepreneurs by a general regulation. For entrepreneurs, for different entities, for administration. And the law that we are debating today primarily refers to institutional issues, because we are talking about new obligations, new tasks, as well as new procedures that will be followed by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, and we are talking about general exemptions from this law, exemptions from the obligations of the GDPR to which the State has powers. There is no Member State, for example. the right to exclude the use of GDPR for entrepreneurs, as Mr Marchewka pointed out, that we have rightly withdrawn from this idea. Is it right that entrepreneurs probably have a different opinion about this? Whether it would not be beneficial to exclude from some information obligations at least for small, medium-sized and above all for micro-enterprises, this is a debatable issue and probably even in opposition there would be doubts about this. Another issue is also a matter of time and information campaign, preparation for the implementation of the GDPR and implementation of the law. It is worth stressing this once again: the regulation was adopted 2 years ago and, of course, the Member States had an obligation or more to adapt their legislation in so far as they consider it appropriate. We have decided that this discussion process will be transparent and quite detailed. We have put in place a very broad public consultation, which also had part of the information campaign itself. We have been discussing with various organizations, with entrepreneurs, with associations for a long time, and it was not only in closed offices, because it was also a public discussion, and it was also held here, in this Chamber, as part of the questions asked by ladies and gentlemen. It turned out that this discussion was really needed, necessary and as a result we reached the point where the consultation process, as I said, formally closed on 23 October. Now, as far as time is concerned, it is such a question whether it is not the result of the fact that during that time there was no constitutional minister of digitalization. Well, I do not wish, with all due respect to Mr Pudłowski, to take personal trips, who moved to whom or who moved himself, I would point out to you that the Council of Ministers adopted the bill on 27 March, or 1.5 months ago. That's one thing. And as far as I'm concerned, I became Minister of Digitization on April 17th, so if there is such a charge that there was no constitutional minister of digitalization, then I think it is missing. I would like to say that this is a clear statement: this has indeed been one of the priority tasks for me to complete the work on this project and on the implementing rules. As a result of this transparent process, we received so many comments from various organizations, including, of course, within the government, that we had to share the work on this project, and I will tell you why. I will answer Mr Arndt's question, why not reverse order. This scope of work was huge and is still huge and, of course, it is no explanation that the team in the Ministry of Digitalization is not the largest legal team in Poland, but it was also a bit of the result. First of all, we wanted to dispel all the doubts that arise. I would also like to draw your attention to one thing, that about a week ago, the European Commission corrected the Personal Data Protection Regulation, and this correction was not only editorial. So the whole process of preparing this law, I also talked about this at the committee meeting, which he mentioned, among others. Mr Masłowski, the process of implementing the law, the education process, such a common education in this area, is ongoing throughout the European Union and also concerns the European Commission. The point is that we should be aware of that. Once again, I stress this: it is a very complex process and it is not just about us, so that it is clear. However, I also stress that this is not something that would be a special explanation. As for the order, because Mr Arndt asked why the introductory provisions will be later and the law now, it is because this law introduces, above all, general regulations, i.e. General derogations. That's what we wanted most, and that's what we think is most important. We want them to come into force as soon as possible, with the support of the High House, so that we can have a chance that they will actually come into force on 25 May. Some of you say that nothing is going to happen, because on 25 May the GDPR will come into force, it is, it will come in, and we want some of the issues that are possible according to the GDPR to be applicable, so that we can decide on those issues where there are doubts at this stage. This is also done by other Member States in a dispute with the European Commission. The example of Germany cited here is a significant example, because the derogations proposed by Germany in its law did not meet with the enthusiasm of the European Commission. Besides, some of the German solutions are in our regulations. Many of your fellow Members have asked why we change the name of your office and what it will cost. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska even asked about social costs. With all due respect - also for the office and for the great achievements of the office - the change of name will not give rise to any social costs in my opinion. It may generate financial costs, but as regards the financial costs of changing the name of the office, on the example of the Ministry of Digitalization, I can say that the costs of changing the name from the Ministry of Administration and Digitalization to the Ministry of Digitalization amounted to 9 thousand in total. zł, so this is not a fundamental thing. But why this change of name? Change of name because the nature of the office changes: from inspection, means from an inspection, which today is in fact the Office of the General Data Protection Officer, to an office more similar in character to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in terms of the tasks it performs today. Hence, among others. such a decision to highlight also the rank and importance of the office. This does not change in any way the question of the independence of the body. I think that after these last changes it can be said that this independence is even greater, because, as we are talking about the deputies, as I also said in the committee, this dispute that has been going on... Moreover, it was stressed that we withdrew from the proposal to appoint deputies from among the candidates appointed by the various ministers, although the European Commission has considered this to be something that does not affect the independence of the office. We went in such a direction that the President actually appointed these deputies himself. There is therefore no way, in any way, of reducing the rank or power of the office's independence. The question is whether we have been training for the administration or whether the administration is prepared. Yeah, we do these trainings intensively. Recently, we have stepped up this in cooperation with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and these administrative trainings are taking place. The General Data Protection Officer also conducts a large-scale information campaign in this area. At least we notice it and believe that the role of the General Data Protection Officer in this communication process is primarily underestimated by you. It is not only the Minister of Digitization who is responsible for action and information. Also other ministries conduct this and it is not true that the guide, which is on the website of the Ministry of Digitalization, is the only compendium knowledge for entrepreneurs and citizens. Even better - the colleagues who have worked on this may be offended - or perhaps a more extensive guide prepared by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, which is also available on the Ministry's website. We're on the eve of such an action aimed at micro-entrepreneurs, which we're going to run together with one of the important social organizations, just to draw attention to it. Surely this communication process will continue; it is not that we will limit it on 25 May. As far as the specific questions are concerned, Mr Marchewka asked why we are lowering our age to 13. It's a misunderstanding. We don't lower this age. There's a proposal in the bill: 16 years. One version actually did. We raised this age as a result of the discussion, although we also have many speeches of the organization, such as Leviathan, who said that this limits business opportunities. On the issue of bi-instance - that is what Mr Jan Łopat asked - we introduced this in order to speed things up. We introduced this one-instantity as a result of a public consultation - it was important, it was a request of one of the most important organisations involved in the protection of personal data - pointing out that in this process it is much more important that these matters are dealt with quickly, so that they do not wait a few years, even two years, for the matter to be resolved. This is in the interests of both the entrepreneur and the person whose data have potentially been used incorrectly. Mr Pudłowski asked about these 30 days, about the duration of the check. It's exactly as you say it is. We're talking about 30 days to perform control, not control. This is what we really wanted. Mr Man, I hope I have already answered. Mrs Tomaszewska asked whether the introduction of this law would limit data trafficking. It's about the bill, but above all, we're talking about GDPR. The GDPR itself, you can say, the meaning of its adoption, is related to it. Mr Arndt spoke - and a few of your fellow Members have raised this issue - about video surveillance. Some of you said that it was scandalous that we were introducing it into this bill, others that we should regulate it. I don't know if I'm going to disappoint you or if I'm going to cheer you up: it's not in this bill, but in the committee we'll be happy to lean on it. These issues are indeed considered at the introduction stage and we are working on this law. Now let's talk about whether it's important or not. Yeah, it's very important, but like I said, the number of regulations... I could say this: if we were to count very carefully those laws that would require such, perhaps cosmetic changes, then it would turn out that there are about 400 of them. At the moment, we are working to ensure that this package is digestible, that it is also digestible for Parliament, for entrepreneurs and for citizens, so that it can simply be read. Hence also under pressure from these requirements [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've been more focused on work. If Mr. Marshal would allow me to speak for a moment, I would like to answer a few questions quickly. Mr Szczerba spoke about the fact that universities of the third century are terrified of the dates of entry into force. The GDPR was adopted 2 years ago, so the entry into force of this law in no way affects the functioning of the protection of personal data, the processing of personal data by social organisations or universities of the third century. So I think that's the way it is. This is a misunderstanding, although we do not ignore the issue of informing the public, including social organisations. Mrs Czernow spoke roughly in the same spirit that the implementation of the law requires procedures. The laws do, but she was talking more about GDPR, that the implementation of the regulation itself requires procedures. It doesn't really have a direct connection. Mr Masłowski asked what assurances for the company that it would not be punished. The Member took it out of context a little bit, but I meant this and I still mean that this is a process that will continue. You also have to remember these penalties because they've grown into such a little myth. Those penalties were imposed because... The amount of these penalties is so high - EUR 20 million - because it is related to the fact that we are talking here both about single-person entrepreneurs doing business and about a large company, an international corporation that processes personal data. So we are talking about the maximum level of penalties and we are also talking about the whole procedure for imposing these penalties, the whole procedure for measuring penalties. There is also such a thing as the discretion of the organ and, as far as the Polish authority is concerned, we have no doubt about it. Of course, I can't give you any guarantee because that's not my role, but I believe that also the education process, because punishment is the ultimate instrument that in this range of measures can be applied by an organ... I think that this good cooperation will depend on this, especially in the case of entrepreneurs who do not do it deliberately. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, we will have the opportunity to answer the questions at the committee's meeting. The decision to which committees the draft law will be referred is in the hands of your Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on the protection of personal data contained in print No 2410, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, invites the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 24 hours 12 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (prints No. 2462 and 2485). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u44	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, print No 2462. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 23 April 2018, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Digitality, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading. The Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Commission for Infrastructure after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 7 May 2018 request the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. Four substantive amendments, 21 legislative amendments and 12 drafting amendments were presented at the committee meeting. In total, it was 37 amendments. Thank you very much, on the occasion of the Commission for digitization, including President Pudłowski, for his understanding of this matter. Yesterday, the Committee on Digitalisation and the Committee on Infrastructure examined this project and I am therefore presenting a report so that the Sejm would like to adopt this proposal. The project is so important that it introduces very important arrangements, which will be implemented gradually, among others. exempts citizens from the obligation to carry on their own during the roadside inspection of the traffic permit document, i.e. the so-called. I.D.'s. We won't have to have him with us. The rules also allow the document to be virtually retained and recovered in a virtual way. There will also be this return in a virtual way. A provision has also been added indicating that it will be possible to make a contribution to the State budget from the CepiK special-purpose fund in order to finance the operation of the tasks resulting from that law from the State budget. We also have provisions on the transmission of information about the dismantling of vehicles directly to the central register of vehicles from the dismantling station, as well as the collection of data about dismantling stations, which will be transmitted by the Marshal of the voivodship. As a consequence, the possibility to register the vehicle ex officio was introduced after obtaining information on the dismantling from the controller of the data and information collected in the central vehicle register. There have also been changes in order and complementary to those agreed during the consultation. These amendments are intended to extend the concept of prohibition and to automatically remove from the records prohibitions imposed on offences which the National Criminal Register Information Office does not remove, after 5 years after the final decision. Added date of birth in local records and registers of persons and entities involved in the process of acquiring allowances, supplemented the scope of the central register of drivers with medical and psychological certificates for the work of the driver, depended on the implementation of technical solutions to launch the central register of car park card holders, registered pledges and target communication with insurance companies via the system operated by UFG. The provisions in accordance with the adopted construction will enter into force on 4 June 2018, but their application will take place from the dates specified in the Minister's individual communications. Until then, the existing provisions will apply. Like I said, the joint committees are asking for the bill to be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u45	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Kubów, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u46	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws contained in print No 2462. The bill is a continuation actions initiated by the Law of 15 September 2017 amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws on the adoption and optimisation of activities related to the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system . This project will allow for the gradual start-up of individual functionalities as the work progresses and appropriate testing of them, thereby determining the willingness of the relevant stakeholder group. Such rules will eliminate the risks associated with the simultaneous activation of all system functionalities and integration and communication including more than 60 stakeholder groups. At the same time, this draft law introduces provisions on the exploitation of the potential of central vehicle registration. It is proposed to exempt citizens moving on the territory of the Republic of Poland by vehicles registered in Poland from the obligation to carry with them a document of entry into service, i.e. registration or temporary permit, as well as the need for a paper OC policy. At the same time, road traffic control authorities will be able to verify the vehicle data, including its documents, in the central vehicle register without the need for drivers to present these documents. The project also adapts the provisions on retention of registration or temporary authorisation, introducing provisions that allow the so-called. virtual retention of this type of document, which will be recorded in the system each time. At the same time, provisions were added on the transmission of information about the dismantling of vehicles directly from the dismantling station to the central vehicle register, and therefore the collection of data about dismantling stations, which will be provided by the Marshal of the voivodship. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions are intended primarily for drivers and various institutions. It is necessary to amend and adapt the law in order to implement it so that the solutions expected by society can be put in place. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u48	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It should be said explicitly that the CEPiK 2.0 was to be the flagship project of this government digitizing Poland, but it became the flagship project of the digital crash - unfortunately. On 13 November, a central vehicle register was launched, but it turned out that instead of much easier and faster procedures, drivers had much harder ones. In the first week, there were 20,000. cases that were not settled in places where drivers wanted to register their vehicles. CEPiK 2.0 - speaking with a wink - it has a name 2.0 only because at the very beginning of its introduction it took twice as much time to register the vehicle. Unfortunately, that shouldn't have happened. Actions that have been taken by the government, including: The extension of the deadline first to 13 November 2017 was proposed by the Ministry of Digital Affairs. Turns out it can't be done. The second part, i.e. the introduction of a central register of drivers, was to be introduced in June this year. This bill is only a withdrawal during the deadline for the implementation of further functionalities related to the Central Vehicle and Driver Registration. Of course, there is much to be said about the fact that drivers will not have to carry a registration card or confirmation of an OC policy, but that no one today knows when it will happen. No one is able to tell when these functionalities will be implemented. On the one hand, it is possible to promise, as the Ministry promises, great facilitation for drivers, but on the other hand no one knows what it is for. I have the indisputable impression that this is just to cover this issue in some way with the need to postpone the deadline and with the inefficiencies at the time of the central registration of drivers. I would also like to mention the provisions contained in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the implementation of the CEPiK system. It should be noted that among others. As of 20 February of this year, it was pointed out that the progress of the third stage, i.e. the implementation of subsequent e-services under the CEPiK 2.0 system, was only 9%, and in the case of the fourth stage, the introduction of the central register of drivers, which was to apply in June this year, was only 3%. So there was no chance that this system could be put in place in time to run it, so that drivers could have tangible benefits from it. I'm just going to quote one of the statements in the report. It indicates that lack of progress and poor execution, among others. the third and fourth stages of the implementation of the central register of drivers present a risk that the work within these stages will not be carried out within the time limits set out in the timetable. It can therefore be said that, indeed, if not for this draft law, which postpones these rules further, this could end in a similar failure as in November ub. (a) where there has been a significant increase in the length of these cases and the registration of vehicles in each district or city office. Let me just give you a few examples. In the first week this time extended: in Białystok - from 28 minutes to 125, in Gdańsk - from 20 to 45 minutes, in Krakow - from 16 minutes to 48, in Szczecin - from 13 minutes to 19, in Katowice - from 20 to 40 minutes. Only in the first week was 20,000. things that haven't been settled. So I have the impression that if it weren't for this bill, we'd probably have to deal with another action that would have to be about putting out a fire just because this process wasn't prepared. Let me put it simply: I hope that the records that are included in this law and the implementation of further functionalities after the Minister has issued these messages will take place in a way that is much faster and more favourable to drivers than it was last year. I am counting on it, Minister - and I am crossing my fingers for it, I am telling you frankly - that these functionalities will be implemented as soon as possible, without undue delay, so that drivers can simply benefit from this. It's a pity you can't implement it in time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I hope it works out, and good luck with that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u49	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masławski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! So that I don't just replace the negatives, I'm going to start by pointing out some pros. As for the project that we are discussing now, as a plus, it should be pointed out that drivers will now not have to carry any registration or paper-based OC insurance, and the police will be able to check all of this data in the database. So much for the pros. However, some big misunderstanding for me is that first we are debating in this House about speeding up the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 programme. - which I was very happy about - and another piece of information is that you need more time. So we agreed, we moved this because it was explained at the committee meeting then, what a complex process it is, how much more needs to be done, and above all, that this previous version - whether it's for the previous power or just for the previous years - was built in a very strange, chaotic way, because these individuals didn't communicate with each other and, you can say, everyone created their system locally. Then Kukiz15 leaned over it and said: well, if it takes more time, that's fine. On the other hand, when it is 2018 and we hear that it will be introduced in stages - with which as a computer scientist I agree, the stage is good - and about the next stages will inform the Minister of Digitalization in communications in advance of 3 months, and if these steps are to be six, we already know that it is a minimum of 18 months, but also the Minister told us in the committee that it is a matter of years, well, here something is already not right for me, because one year or two years ago we talked about speeding up, then a slight delay, and now we say that it is even decomposing for years. On the other hand, what will happen - probably not - if power had changed for some reason? It's just that the power would change, the new ones would come to power, they'd probably change the name of the ministry, the exchange of people would begin. And - as is the case in our stateship - we start to build again, and we fix our mistakes after our predecessors. We had the same situation, we have a similar situation with regard to the patient's online account, as I recently pointed out at the meeting of the digitalization committee. The system has been built for 8 or 10 years and is still being built again. There are only new promotional campaigns running, there seems to be a lot of money, and the patient's online account as it wasn't, so there isn't. And now I'm worried about what's gonna happen to CEPiK. Of course, I guess by looking at the polls, although I am not a poll supporter, that Law and Justice will hold power, maybe I won't, but some power will hold for the next term of office of the government, the Sejm. However, the question is whether this is enough, because if the Minister said it was a matter of years, now we do not know whether 5 years, 4, 2 or 8 or 16 years. So I think it's very inappropriate. There's a problem somewhere, and we, of course, in the digital committee are helping if we can. Please take into account the fact that there are not only racial politicians in this committee, but there are also simply technicians, actual professionals who can advise you somehow, help you, because this system has very good assumptions, allows you to chase the European Union in some way so that it is like abroad with us, all information is included in this system. It's about getting this job done right. Therefore, with great regret I can only say that it is a pity that it is so late. Of course, like my previous speaker, I wish you success, and I wish you the completion of your work as soon as possible. I think I can say on behalf of the entire digital committee that you can count on our help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Suchoń presented his position in writing. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u52	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I present my position and our opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on road traffic. From the speeches made by my previous speakers - I also have the same opinion - it follows that this is the next stage, another proposal to resolve the issue of correct, correct, appropriate, appropriate to the expected functioning of the CEPiK 2.0 system. . We have wondered at the club, we have wondered many of our fellow Members about why we are now introducing, we are debating why the government has presented this new project, what we are really going to achieve if the government is going to achieve through its adoption. On the one hand, the records that have been placed in it deserve support, acceptance, meet expectations, suggestions. We don't really know if it's all gonna be so good, great, but since it's not gonna be an obligation to present, carry around, carry the vehicle registration, confirm the paper OC agreement, it's definitely positive. This also shows that controlling officers will use equipment at a higher level that will allow them to identify specific vehicles and specific users. On the other hand, as far as the next step is concerned, it is also good that we want to have knowledge in certain areas and collect it, e.g. concerning the decommissioning or demolition of vehicles, the location of these points, because this information is to be transmitted. It's okay about all of this. We remain convinced, Minister, that it will all work out so well that it will work out. Nevertheless, I cannot fail to share my reflection and concern as to whether you have really reached conclusions as a government over this period of almost 3 years, whether you have opinions, whether you are convinced that all these assumptions will be implemented, that this will work well. I no longer want to be divorced in a broader way over the last period of the last year and to implement in the old age systems that have been introduced. I think that the Minister knows that IT systems, that cooperation with groups of entities that must be so arranged that the adoption of certain assumptions, their phase-out and the issuing of relevant regulations regarding their mobilisation will not cause unnecessary distortions as to whether these systems will prove to be inefficient. We remain convinced, although these doubts are out there somewhere, Minister, that you can handle all of this, it's a popular word these days, to put it together. So that we will be, just as we were at the joint committee meeting yesterday, in favour of continuing our work and adopting this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u53	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to raise two points. A little while ago, we discussed the Personal Data Protection Act quite a long time ago. I would like to ask if the law we are talking about is adapted to this Personal Data Protection Act. It affects all drivers, it affects many institutions, among others. The ones that keep records. Are the provisions of this Act in accordance with GDPR? This is the first case. And the other thing. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber's report, one of the reasons for the delay in implementing this programme is that the employees of the Central Computer Science Centre did not have sufficient qualifications, sufficient experience. I'd like to ask you if the reason isn't that the wages in COI are too low. Isn't it one of the main reasons that we don't have enough human resources? Has anything changed in this regard? Do these salaries change? Will they change? Will the workers who are going to do this really be sufficiently qualified from now on, and this programme will enter into force relatively quickly? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u55	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u56	Dear Marshal, Minister! The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber shows that progress has been made in implementing the central drivers' records, that at the time when the studies were carried out in this field, this process was only carried out in 3%. Are you able, Minister, to assess your progress today from that moment on? Is something really moving? And is there a light in the tunnel, or can we speed this process up? That's one thing. Secondly: Is it because it is the Minister who will point out through these communications when the next functionalities of the CEPiK system will be activated that he is able to indicate which first will be implemented? And is there a timetable for the implementation of these particular functionalities? I think that today, from this point of view, this is very important, especially since, as you said, Minister, during the committee meeting, this is a matter of Even years. So I think it would be good to at least clarify in the timetable the implementation of further functionalities, because this would be very useful especially for those who will use this system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u57	Thank you. Please, Mr Antoni Men, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Listening to this, taking part in the previous debate as well as in the current debate, I feel that you are really running the decrees. These laws come to Parliament, but Parliament is only a screen to the fact that democracy exists in Poland, because it is not really possible. These are the substantive laws. This could be debated and the best possible solutions could be found, while you come with a law that is at the last moment before the deadlines need to be changed. June 4th she must enter into force, the previous one must have entered 25. And it's not really parliamentarianism, it's what you practice here. There is also, Mr. Marshal - this is for your marshal - the question of the fact that the schedule is set much earlier and there is no possibility in the meantime to convene a meeting of the Sejm, for example. To look at the Senate's corrections. And as it is said that the Senate has been unnecessary for a long time, so today, in your style of government, not only do these political laws go in the form of decrees, but also substantive laws: the substantive ones are treated as decrees. It's just a screen. And can't you change that schedule, Marshal? Or as it has been established [[♪ The bell ♪]] Six months ago, that's how it's got to be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft law, the designer proposes adding the date and place of birth to the catalogue of processed data. In view of the processing of PESEL or identity document data, is it not sometimes unnecessary to collect additional data identifying a person? After all, there is a principle that data processing is adequate, according to which the controller should only process data necessary for the purpose of collecting them. In addition, according to a recent response to my interpellation on the functioning of the CEPiK system, there is a joint task force. categorisation and development of error solutions and cleaning of outstanding problems. The team shall keep up-to-date a list of the main error groups for which the necessary measures to address them will be carried out first. I was also informed that there were 82 problems identified throughout the country. So I wanted to ask you, what is the situation at the moment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u61	Thank you. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about a change regarding the exemption of citizens from the obligation to have a registration card or documents confirming the insurance of OCs registered in Poland. And I don't want to duplicate the information here and complain, and talk about the problems and subsequent shifts in the duration of the changes. Since this information about the lack of need for registration or insurance has already spread to citizens, and especially to forgetful ones, I would ask you to give us even an approximate date for the entry into force of these regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u63	Thank you. I invite Mr Maciej Masłowski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I hope my previous appearance has not been misread. I am always very fond of you, especially you, and with great sympathy. Here's my question. Yesterday you said that the schedule wasn't ready yet, so you can't give dates that you can't do it in a year, that it's important that it's a couple of years. Which is why, unofficially, would you like to say more or less what time it is? As I say, non-binding. These forks are wide, but the point is to know if it's gonna be, for example, I don't know, 1 year per stage, if we can expect that the whole CEPiK 2.0 will be introduced in 6 years, 2 years. It's about, you know, your personal feelings, so that we know more or less which way it's going, because once you're out there, you see how much more to the end, it's more enjoyable, and then we can move these terms anyway. But there's this curiosity of mine out there somewhere, that maybe it'll work. You're an intern too, experienced. Otherwise, you can go out to the speaker and say: Mr, I wish it were. 3 years. And that's a satisfying answer for me. But it's so close to your expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u65	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr. Karol Okoński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all your questions, I will try to explain everything completely. As regards Mr Arndt's question of compliance with the GDPR, I would like to assure you that, in general, this law does not change the scope of the data stored or collected at this time, but I can assure you that it is in line with the GDPR. Also, by dispelling your doubts about the second thread, whether the problem regarding the implementation of the CepiK IT system - and probably in the guesswork of everyone else - is related to the issue of remuneration in the public sphere or at the Central Information Technology Centre, I can say that this is certainly some aspect, especially in the context of supervisory staff working in ministries and government agencies, while as far as the Central Information Technology Centre is concerned, by building this employment pyramid accordingly, we are able to get closer to a more or less market level, so that at this moment the saying... This is not an alibi that I would like to use right now, saying that there is no computer scientist who would like to work at COI, because in general, as far as this perspective is concerned, we can provide you with a relatively attractive remuneration. These are not top forks, but more or less the average wage, which is valid on the market, which is very demanding. Generally, all companies in the IT industry have a problem with getting employees, but it's as if COI is not in a lost position here. The only challenge here is to ensure the proper structure of this project team, which at times requires an adequate increase in the number of people working here, while we eat so-called. body leasing, which means we hire specialists for specific tasks. Of course, it is necessary to take care of this - actually NIK pointed out this, I think that maybe in too bright a way - not to disturb the proportion between those employees who are hired and those who are own belong to the company, because in the case of those workers who are outside, for example. COI, this knowledge just doesn't stay in the organization later. With regard to Mr Carrot's question, I can answer this: as regards progress in the area of central driver records, we cannot and do not want to hide that due to the problems that arose after the implementation of this vehicle-related part, most of the efforts of the organisation, including the CEPiK team, were directed towards the time of system stabilisation and repair of errors, possibly implementing urgent changes and extensions, which were thus diagnosed by the elderly or by the citizens, so this degree of progress, among others. for this reason, it did not increase significantly, but above all, which is probably more important, we, too, when recognizing some problems at the implementation stage of the CEP, did not want to duplicate the same errors too hastyly and we considered that in this first instance it was important to think again about the construction itself, the architecture of the system, how the central system works with these support applications, especially with the local applications SI Vehicle and SI Driver in the case of the second part, because experience has shown that this contact, this synchronization and the combination of these two systems are simply critical. As far as messages are concerned, they do not have dates without kosers, precisely because these dates will be based - the first approximation of them at this point - on a timetable that is in preparation and, as experience shows, unfortunately at the last stage there may be some events, new circumstances, new errors that will result in that ultimately for the security of implementation we will want to move these deadlines towards the schedule originally planned. Responding to certain concerns or accusations - which I do not directly answer - that this is a delay in implementation on the holy one, I want to assure you that, among other things. This change, which is introduced in this Act, i.e. the possibility of getting rid of the need to carry documents, results, among others. from the fact that we've just implemented a central vehicle register, otherwise it wouldn't be possible. We also see further changes and topics in which we can make life easier for citizens, drivers - whether by dealing with the issue of driving licences or by giving the possibility of not driving a driver's licence. We feel that we will clearly be accountable for how this system is implemented, while the experience of this first stage shows that working and acting taking into account a specific, rigid date unfortunately puts on a straitjacket, which at some point just starts to decide a little bit whether to influence the decisions taken. In my opinion, ultimately, this could cause more damage than benefits. As far as these subsequent communications are concerned, I am sure that within the steering committee that works, it is established for this project, we will signal in the communications within the project schedule... The members of the Steering Committee shall be representatives not only of the departments but also of other stakeholders, including local authorities. I don't see any obstacles in keeping up to date in the committee on digitalisation and new technologies to report on how the project is being carried out, consulting certain decisions or movements, so we will certainly be doing this in an open way here. Given also what Mrs Kołacz mentioned here about the fact that probably the most expected change at this point is to allow the document not to be available during the audit, we assume that this change will still be possible this year, because from the perspective of the system and the central base the system is de facto ready. What we need to ensure is that this process... is that when it comes to the officers who will control it, it will be possible for them to contact someone who has access to the system to do this in real time with the driver. As regards the question whether or not the comment made by Mr Man, I would like to assure you that consultations are the most important element in the whole legislative process of building a legislative project, both social and inter-ministerial. This project has gone through exactly this way, especially with the ancients, with the departments of communication, with the associations that participate in these works, as well as with the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is our main partner, or with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. So, let's say the claim that the project is unprepared or specially sent to the Sejm at the last moment is certainly false. As regards Mrs Navel's question about keeping the date and place of birth, I would like to say that the requirement to gather concerns only a group of specialists who issue medical certificates, and that is simply the scope necessary at this point to comply with those provisions, those obligations which have been imposed by law, and no new additional obligations are imposed. However, what I can say from this place, regardless of the procedure for this bill, we plan to look again with the Ministry of Infrastructure at this law, which is very complicated, is difficult to interpret as traffic law at all. We have a plan to make certain deregulations or some simplifications in this law, which can make certain things possible, certain obligations to be removed from all stakeholders. You can expect an initiative from us in a short time. As regards the current situation in the CEPiK system, I would like to assure you that this stabilisation period, which lasted longer than we expected, can be said to have come to an end in practice and can be measured, for example. the number of notifications that are recorded in the helpdesk system in the ancients. The level of notifications before 13 November - before implementation, it was about 200 applications per day and for a few weeks this level of applications has been maintained, so it can be said that we have returned to normal use of the system. As far as statistics are concerned, the number of documents and time permits processed are at virtually the same level as before implementation, or even higher. And an accusation that sometimes I hear we operate with heartless statistics. I would like to assure you that we also make reference visits in the various departments of communication, driving around Poland. From these recent visits, at this moment practically from the last four visits to various places in Poland - it was Toruń, Grace, Gorzów, that during the presence of our representative in the communication department none of the citizens left unserviced, i.e. there was no situation that the employee had to tell him: unfortunately, the system does not allow you to serve. So these situations at this point are really very special. As for the time of service, it was Mr Marchewka who quoted the figures that pointed to the hour-to-hour handling of the case. On the basis of the last such visit I can say, as an example, because of course this is not a statistics covering all departments, these are average times that at this point it takes less than 3 minutes to issue a registration certificate, registration of a new car is about 12 and 13 minutes, registration of a vehicle from abroad is less than 11 minutes, registration of a vehicle in the office is about 15 minutes, including to these times you have to add about 3 and 4 minutes to the so-called. Closing documents. On the other hand, I ask that you also note whether you were aware that during this total time of customer service - the citizen, the service time in the system and the service time associated with documents is important. We can see that depending on how the work in the communication department will be organized, the service time may vary considerably. Here we can also see that when the system is stabilized there is also a field for some improvements or acceleration of service, also by improving the process itself. Finally, regarding Mr Masłowski's question on the timetable. In fact, I told the committee at the meeting that we did not see a chance that this project would be completed within the next year. I'm sure it is. We assume that in the next two years, two or three years, there's a chance that this system will end. On the other hand, the exact schedule and sequence of the launch of subsequent functionalities is something that is still going on, which is being consulted. So for a precise, detailed schedule and a clear declaration on our part, you will have to wait a while longer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. First of all, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I know that the committee rapporteur, Mr Bogdan Rzonec, also wanted to speak. [[Yes, Your Marshal, I am.]] My microphone's blocking you. For this reason, I ask you very much, sir, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you very warmly because yesterday we worked in two joint committees for a long time, but very, very substantively. I just wanted to thank all the Members who, by late evening hours, had participated in the work of the committee. The project is difficult, the bill is difficult, our predecessors failed to do it during this bill. I hope that we will gradually reach the goal of a good functioning of the Central Vehicle and Driver Registration system, because that is the need. Thank you very much on behalf of the two joint committees for yesterday's deliberations. As I said in the report, I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle regarding the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The purpose of this Act is to prepare improvements to the CEPiK 2.0 system . In addition, the proposal provides that the existing provisions apply until technical solutions are implemented to enable implementation, transmission and collection. One of the changes that is most interested in drivers is the exemption of citizens moving vehicles registered in Poland on the territory of the Republic of Poland from the obligation to carry with them a registration document and a document confirming the conclusion of a mandatory civil liability insurance contract of the vehicle holder. The possession of these documents will not be required in the case of road inspections. The application of the provision is conditional on the implementation of technical solutions which will, in principle, provide access to the verification of the data of these documents. On-line at the CEP. This change will bring great comfort to citizens, which should be commended. The amendments will be governed by Article. 38 laws. The consequences of this modification are changes to the provisions concerning the tasks of road traffic control authorities when verifying the vehicle concerned. The approach to retention of registrations, time permits will also be modified. Where there are grounds for retention of these documents, a solution was adopted to refrain from physical retention by road traffic control authorities in order to mark the detention of that document in the Central Vehicle Registration. The aim of the CepiK 2.0 IT programme is the reconstruction and modernisation of the CEP, CEK, as well as the construction of the CEPKP. Rules for clarifying non-compliance will be laid down. The aim is to create a uniform technical framework for the entry of data into the database, to lay down the rules for the entry of data in the records at the time of carrying out the activities resulting in the transmission of data and to extend the directory of entities authorised to access data stored in the records. In view of the changes made and the acquisition of competence in the conduct of the CEPiK 2.0 project and the supervision of the unit responsible for the establishment of the CEPiK 2.0 central base, the inventory of the current status of the project, the date of entry into force of these provisions of 1 January 2017 was postponed to 4 June 2018. In addition, new structures have been set up to manage the project. Due to the transfer of a large number of data from multiple sources and the switching of a large number of entities, the Ministry decided that the CEPiK 2.0 programme would be based on the phase-in implementation of the project and not, as originally established, the system would be launched at one time. The changes that will be made will be on a large scale. Suffice it to say that there will be 380 counties involved, over 4,000. vehicle control stations and more than 7 thousand. Driver training centres. The implementation of the system is therefore divided into six stages. This project also changes the scope of data collected in the register of dismantling stations and vehicle collection points - this is governed by Article. Point 4 (1) (a) b Act. The current legal situation requires that information on dismantling be provided by the governor on the basis of a certificate sent by the dismantling station or presented by the owner. This obligation will be transferred to the source entity. This approach - by eliminating old-age mediation information in the flow - provides faster access to current data for system users. Due to the awareness of the changes to be made to ensure that the CEPiK 2.0 system works properly and to satisfy citizens, but at the same time it is transparent and functional for service providers, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws after the presentation of the report of the committee. These are prints 2462 and 2485. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law contains legal solutions for many different aspects of widely understood road traffic issues. First of all, according to the justification given, the project contains provisions on optimization of activities related to the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system. . In addition, legislation is included to allow road travel without the registration document and the document confirming the conclusion of compulsory civil liability insurance. The submission also includes proposals for a legal basis allowing for a wider use of the CepiK special-purpose fund and regulations to supplement the central vehicle register with data on vehicle dismantling stations. This is only the most important of the changes made by this submission. In addition to these changes, other aspects were covered, which were discussed in detail during the committee meeting. First of all, I would like to remind you that we have had a discussion about the CEPiK system in this term of office several times. Right at the beginning of our term of office, still in 2015, we pushed the deadline for its implementation and then there was a lively discussion about the state of the project and its perspective. But it wasn't the only time. This discussion took place both in 2016 and in 2017. Speaking on behalf of the Modern One, I pointed out that running the project in the way it was conducted would result in failure. We also offered some solutions at the time. Typically, representatives of the ministries informed during these discussions that there would be no problem with the implementation of the CEPiK system and that the current government is doing everything differently, that is better than the previous government. As this government does, it turned out in autumn 2017. It was then that we had a heart attack in the communication departments as a result of a very weak implementation of the central vehicle registration system. Those problems that touch the drivers aren't over. Also today, when Poles go to register the car, they can expect problems. Given the experience, it must be said that the idea of step-by-step implementation in itself is a good idea. This is how major IT projects should be carried out, with a large stakeholder group, with complex relationships. However, it is difficult to resist the impression that this step-by-step implementation of the system is in fact such a soft delay in the implementation deadline of the whole solution. Let us look at this in a realistic way, referring directly to the materials presented by the Ministry. In these materials we will not find a single date, which would indicate even the beginning of the implementation, which would indicate the first stage - the smallest. Therefore, I read this bill as a confession that the government couldn't handle this project. However, of course, it is good that the government will not force the unprepared project, because if this project were implemented, we would probably have another heart attack, this time concerning drivers and their powers. But we must also tell the Poles the truth, ministers, that they must have both the registration and the proof of the conclusion of the insurance contract. This media information that you don't have to carry these documents has nothing to do with the facts. It's just and exclusively, as I see it, the kind of fern that's gonna distract you from the real purpose of this project. The actual purpose of this project is to postpone the implementation of the Central Vehicle and Driver Records as a whole. On the way to the end, I would like to point out that this is a slightly different style of failure. I remember that just a few years ago, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, trying to cover his incompetence, tried to convince Poland that the faults of delaying the deadline for the implementation of the CEPiK are voivodship road traffic centres. The gentleman who tried to convince the High House and Poles with such a fake news fortunately no longer exists. But there's another delay. High Izbo! At the end of my speech, I would like to mention one more thing. The draft contains a legal basis for a wider use of the CepiK special-purpose fund so far. Several hundred million zlotys were collected on this fund. These several hundred million zlotys were collected from Poles as part of the fees, e.g. when registering a vehicle. Also during the current term of office and during the debate on the Modern Budget, it was clear that the State could not tax citizens in return. Meanwhile, even though there are several hundred million zlotys in the CEPiK Fund, more millions paid by Poles are paid into the budget each year. However, it is important to consider whether these charges should not be suspended at least temporarily. High Izbo! In view of my position, given the fact that the implementation of the CEPiK system in the current state of preparation would entail paralysis, the Modern will support the bill submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u72	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs: - a government draft law amending the social pension law, - a parliamentary bill amending the Act of 27 June 2003 on the Social Pension (Prints No 2472, 2469 and 2488). I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Rent Act, print No 2472, and on the parliamentary bill amending the Act of 27 June 2003 on Social Rent, print No 2469. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 27 April 2018, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent these projects to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering these projects at its meeting on 7 May 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Two amendments were tabled by Agnieszka Ścigaj during the work on draft laws. The amendments were not supported by the committee and therefore by the committee in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit minority applications at the request of the applicant. The first minority proposal concerns a change in the wording of the Article. 1. The applicant proposes that the social pension should be 120% from 1 July 2018. the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work established and increased in accordance with the FUS Pension Act, 130% the amount referred to earlier, from 1 January 2019 and 140% that amount from 1 January 2020 The second minority request concerns a change in the date of entry into force of the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, working in the subcommittees has been accompanied, I think, by such a common belief that raising the amount of the social pension up to the amount of the pension related to the total incapacity for work is an action that fulfils the demand of the protesters in the Sejm. This is a government submission. Measures to finance the costs of raising social pensions for 2018 and subsequent years are set out in the effects of regulation. I think that with all satisfaction, because the bill was adopted unanimously by all the members of the committee, we can say that we have jointly contributed to improving the living conditions of people receiving social pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u74	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And as the first person to take the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club, on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u75	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Social Rent Act, print Nos 2469 and 2472. This draft law aims to amend the wording of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Social Pension Act of 27 June 2003 in order to increase the amount of the social pension. [[Game in the O.R.]] May I ask my opposition colleagues to remain silent? [[We're not friends, ma'am.]] According to Art. 4 of the Act of 27 June 2003 on the social pension is entitled to an adult who is completely unable to work because of an impairment of the body's fitness, which was created before the age of 18, during school or at a higher school before the age of 25, during doctoral studies or scientific aspirant. The purpose of the benefit in the form of a social pension is to compensate for the inability to acquire entitlement to benefits from the social security scheme because the total incapacity for work arose before entering the labour market. The social pension is intended for people who, in most cases, never achieve independence, live with their parents when they are adults or spend many years in institutional forms of care, such as social services homes. This is an expression of the country's particular concern for those who are unable to do any work. In line with the principles of social justice and solidarity, it is necessary to increase the amount of this benefit so that it is equal to the minimum amount of the pension of persons who have been active in the labour market and whose incapacity to work has arisen during their professional activities. High Izbo, the measure of the development of civilizational society is the attitude towards people with disabilities. With this in mind, the government regularly makes up for the long-term negligence caused by our predecessors. I would like to remind you that spending on carers and people with disabilities increased by almost PLN 3 billion between 2016 and 2017. A total of PLN 158 million has been increased for the development of environmental self-help homes. [[That's not true.]] In 2017, more than 430 new centres were established. The annual funding for participants in the workshops of occupational therapy was also increased by PLN 1200. This shows that the government is dealing with the elimination of negligence in relation to people with disabilities in a comprehensive manner. [[That's not true.]] The next step on this road is adopted on 26 April. a draft law amending the Social Rent Act, which assumes an increase from 1 June 2018... [[We're just proceeding, Member.]] Can you be quiet? ...social pensions up to the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. As a result, the social pension amounted to PLN 1029,80 gross, i.e. 878,12 zł net. This means an increase of more than 19%. [[Not 50?]] I would like to make it clear to the High House that this is the first government to react so quickly to the demands of the protesters in the Sejm. [[21st day of strike.]] Dear Ladies of the opposition! I know the truth hurts, but be quiet. [[Then don't lie to me.]] I would stress that the government reacted in a realistic way, finding the necessary resources, not like our predecessors, to increase the increase only on paper, in the plans for the next budget to be implemented by the new government. [[What did you do with the money? 600 million PLN.]] It hurts, doesn't it? Mr. Marshal! [[Mrs. Marshal!]] High Izbo! Following a thorough analysis of the proposed law, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Lies.]] Patience, ladies! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u76	Thank you, Member. And I would like to ask Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I also have the honour to present our position on these two prints, the government project and the parliamentary project. We know that the social pension is granted to persons unable to work who have a judgment on total incapacity but who have not worked out a premium period. We also know that this pension is 84% the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. And this benefit has been introduced, is paid by the Social Security Office and valorized since 1 October 2003. We also know that by the end of 2011, people who received social benefits were discriminated against when it comes to the possibility of making money, in relation to e.g. persons who had pensions for total incapacity for work because they could only earn up to 30% of the average salary per month. We, the government of the Civic Platform and PSL, managed to raise this limit to 70% during the economic downturn. and that inequality between the pensionists, i.e. those who take the benefit: the social pension, and those who take the benefit of total incapacity for work, make up for it. We've raised that limit to 70%. Today we are pleased that the government of law and justice is coming our way, taking another step and not only... We've managed to level the limits. Now the government in its project is preparing the introduction of an equal amount of benefit for these two types of renownists. And that's a good thing, and we, of course, will support this bill, but the question here is whether, perhaps on this occasion, since it's economical, you will abolish these limits when it comes to moonlighting. That's the first question. And the second, I think, very important question. Minister, when will you execute the judgment of 21 October 2014? In difficult times we managed to increase the care provision from PLN 420 in 2007 to PLN 1477. What is happening now is really the result of the law we adopted in 2014. Minister Michałkiewicz said yesterday at the committee meeting that in 2014 the benefit amounted to PLN 600. It was not true, it was an allowance of PLN 200, i.e. a total of PLN 800, and since 2015, since January, the total amount was PLN 1200. This memory is so selective. We could do it. So the question is, when are you really going to execute this sentence? You say it's so good, but for parents who take care of others, for example. the disabled child, you did not find the money in 2016, this is the second care provision because you lacked 15 million PLN in the 2016 budget. You've only given this money since 2017. Today, if not for the protest of parents of children, people with disabilities, their carers, in fact this increase in social pensions would not be there either. Prime Minister Morawiecki, at a meeting in Znin, lied. He was talking about some 50-percent increase, but that's one big lie. There was no such growth, there is no growth and there will be no growth, and this growth, which today is, in fact, 165 PLN, was won by the guardians of today's protesting people with disabilities. And the scandal is that you can't, you haven't been able to call a meeting of the Sejm before and renegotiate this bill. However, we have been able to adopt solutions that are already ready within a shorter period of time, in line with the demands. You only carry out part of your demands and also hold back those who fight for their rights. Today, of course, we support this bill, but we are counting on concrete solutions. When will the care provision be in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court? We know that the state may not respect judgments, but for the needs and really great misfortunes of people with disabilities, it might be worthwhile to carry out that sentence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u78	Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj will speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, presenting her speech on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the Act amending the Social Rent Act. I'm actually touched because it's a historic moment. From my point of view, this is a historic moment, because the first writings with this request, with this request from the NGO, go back to the beginnings when Minister Arłukowicz became a proxy for the disfellowshipped, I remember. Then there were other governments, other institutions, and from this non-governmental position, in connection with work with disabled people, I always asked the question: Why the social pension is 84% pensions, salaries, the lowest pension paid by the Social Security Office? Mrs Tomaszewska reminded the story yesterday. I knew this story, I know how it was made, but from the expectations of people with disabilities, this story doesn't speak to me. It's just the needs and the state of things that speak to me, the facts. Therefore, there has always been a question of why it is now, not why it happened in history. But this is a historic moment, because this request is finally fulfilled. It is sad that this historic moment happens in such circumstances that indeed the Government of Law and Justice - which I personally followed - built the whole campaign on the fact that he would first take care of the people who needed it - did not start working on this project much earlier, especially since I repeatedly reminded this speaker of this postulate. The work on it was not undertaken under peaceful conditions, and that is why it is sad and it has forced us to find ourselves in a situation where this dialogue will again rest on the reaction we have had so far. This reactionism is that some group of people with disabilities or their carers will rip something out, as it did in 2014, in 2009. And please, ladies and gentlemen, let us not say that any one of us, whether from the Civic Platform or in this case from the PiS, has done something because we have done this, we must admit, under the influence of this situation, that you have been pinned to the wall. Personally, I also feel that during these two years, I have been talking to these ladies, and yet I have also been acting in a sort of feeling of doing a parliamentary mission, I have encouraged conversation, dialogue, and I have submitted projects concerning a substantive debate. I didn't want any action like this, but it happened the way it happened, and we're actually going over the bill. But okay, we're going over the historical bill. I have tabled an amendment that has become a minority proposal, although at the committee meeting it was alleged that I also submitted a project which is identical to the government project, and we are working on these projects together. I have indeed tabled an amendment which was not before. I would like to say that this is an amendment that I tabled at the request of the protesters. At the moment, it has become a minority request. This is an amendment which I also tabled in response to the words of Minister Rafalski, who spoke, and I agree with this that perhaps the non-constitutional provision would be, as Mr Donald Tusk's government's decision to divide the benefits for the caretakers of the disabled was unconstitutional, in relation to this rehabilitation allowance, that is what you called it. But we know, Minister, what they're after, and let's not play the nickname anymore, let's not expect these ladies to be politicians and use names efficiently. They're really after an important request. I do not believe that any of you sitting here says that this request is not important. This is a postulate that says that their adult disabled children may one day be left alone, may not be left, but these ladies want to leave this world with the assurance that this government or the next government will ensure that their children have 1,300 zł minimum social for life. That's the postulate. And we really don't expect them to know their names. And I beg you, let's leave them out of these games and party manipulations. I have now tabled this amendment as an attempt at dialogue, in order to create an alternative, that maybe this is an exit, Minister, to avoid this charge of unconstitutionality. After all, the social pension is dedicated to a specific group and there has never been a ruling that it is unconstitutional, so no one has denied that the social pension is for this group. At present, 280 thousand. persons and that it is in a different amount, and that it is specifically dedicated. So if we are talking about this postulate of PLN 1300, about reaching the poverty line, this amendment eliminates this concern about non-constitutionality. She's spread out over time, so you can handle the budget, and she's really giving these ladies a real solution. So I'm reporting it, and I'm asking you to reconsider. I didn't do it maliciously, just to actually look for a solution to this difficult situation where we're all in and where we should all feel bad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u80	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, to present the speech on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u81	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Sister Chmielewska, commenting on the 21-day protest of people with disabilities in the Seym, said: we pushed the weakest people to the margin, giving them a mishap, and it is very modest, but we do not give them the opportunity to live. We should be on our knees apologizing to those we simply do not allow to live a decent life. She also mentioned that everything these children have is a force ripped away from you by determined parents, because these parents, those mothers who sleep here on the Seym floor, without taking a step away, do all this out of love and concern for every day of their independent, adult children. Minister! I watched you stand side by side with these people while you were still in opposition. To be honest, when I went to work in Parliament, I was hoping that at least these things would be handled, because you understand. You talked to them, you know what I mean, you promised them you'd make sure all this was done. I really don't understand why it all looks like this today, why it lacks the money that has been promised to them for a long time and which is a guarantee of life for them. Only love gives these parents the strength and determination to continue fighting. Some of them have been coming and asking for more than 20 years. The bill we're working on today is an example of what's going on here, although dramatic and falling for these people, makes sense. This is one of the demands of protesting parents in a quick way, because unfortunately, it is not urgent, it is going through the legislative path. Equalisation of social pensions, which accounts for 84% the lowest invalidity pension, up to 100% this pension, i.e. up to PLN 1029,80 gross, is now a fact. It is worth noting, however, that before the government decided to submit and vote this project, similar proposals had already been submitted by two clubs, Kukiz.15 and Modern. At yesterday's meeting of the Social Policy Committee there were only two convergent prints, government and parliamentary Kukiz15. The Modern Project is stuck somewhere. Why? Because the changes proposed there go much further: not only equalize up to 100% the social pension, but also give rise to the bruteness of this pension, which means that the social pension will not be taxed on income tax. That's what those protesting mothers asked for, too. What's the benefit of this record? Several dozen zlotys more every month in the pocket of a person collecting a social pension. Our printing assumes that it would be in their pockets of 190 PLN, not 165 as in your project. Failure to include the draft law of the club Modern in the parliamentary debate means that the PiS government does not want to make any further concessions than the minimum, which apparently can give an alibi for actions aimed at quieting the protesting parents. But since protesters don't give up, the Modern won't give up either. Our bill awaits trial, Mr. Marshal Kuchciński. Don't lock her in the seym freezers. Meanwhile, I am making an amendment to the Government Act, an amendment which, following the Act of the Modern Club, exempts the social pension from the need to pay tax. We look forward to further work on procedated prints and taking into account the proposed changes that bring greater benefits for people with disabilities, living basically only on social pensions and the goodness and self-sacrifice of family and friends. Minister! What you have already said here before me is the law, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014. In the Sub-Committee on Disabled Persons, the Act of the Modern Club is proceded. It's been dragged, almost two years in the seym freezer, and it's finally in the subcommittee. It is dragged, there are still negative opinions on your side, no chance of any settlement, although this law, apart from the fact that it executes the judgment of the tribunal you requested, additionally meets the other two demands of the parents protesting here in the Sejm. I ask you to step down one more time, take a look at this bill. We are really willing to improve it, to make it so that you can afford it, and to meet as many of those demands as possible that people with disabilities have not been bringing in for 21 days, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's only been for a few dozen years. I ask you to take another look at this project and come to the next session of the subcommittee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u82	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas to present his speech on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u83	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on government and parliamentary drafts of laws amending the Act on Social Rent, prints No. 2472 and 2469. Ladies and gentlemen! Less than a week ago, something happened that could undoubtedly be called a breakthrough. The masks fell and we got to know the real face of the so-called. It's a good change. It turned out that the empathy they promoted in the campaign flowed with Dunajec along with the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs Beata Szydło. That money belonged to them, you screamed Szydło from that pulpit. It is only a pity that this concerned bonuses for her ministers, not for people with disabilities, on whose back, cruelly speaking, many representatives of the PiS have entered the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! You still haven't done your homework today. Looking at the fact that the protesters have been in the Seym for over 20 days, you're still trying to bullshit them. A few days ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki argued that you were raising your social pension by 50%, only that it was nothing to the amounts presented by the project. And it's not the first time you've manipulated data, wanting to disrupt the environment of people with disabilities and their guardians, but they're smarter than you, they don't buy your fairy tales. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the world did not start in 2015. This is the previous government, which you are so unjustly spit on, raised e.g. care services for parents of disabled children from 820 PLN to 1300 PLN per hand. Let me just remind you that when you first gave up power, the witness was A little over 400 PLN. We have also increased the number of families affected. In 2015, the benefit was 105 thousand. parents and carers of disabled children, only 70,000 received them in 2007. persons. In addition, every year, thanks to the government program, parents of disabled children can receive up to PLN 770 for textbooks and school supplies. We obliged local authorities to provide education grants to disabled pupils in general to schools. It can be used e.g. to hire an assistant, a speech therapist. Example: for a student with intellectual disabilities, combined disability and autism, the subsidy amounts to 50,000. PLN per year. We've granted rehabilitation reliefs. Of course, it's a drop in the sea of needs, of course, not everything could be done, but there was desire. I don't see any desire for you. I say to you from this place: until you change your priorities, nothing will come of it. For you, image and party posts are more important than finding a way to resolve this conflict, so you would like to hide those who are protesting in the Seym today, in a secluded place, so that they would not be known about your electorate's existence. At the same time, you would be hovering around Poland and at meetings telling stories, how great it is. Well, it's not. And we'll look at your hands. Of course, we will work on this project, but we will encourage you to continue looking for money for the disabled. We will support this project. And finally, one more question. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the 600 million budgeted by the previous coalition for disability benefits and their carers? [[Janek Bury's.]] Ask, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Peter Kalet, Mr. Gliński, because he may have transferred them into the account of the Princes of Czartoryski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Ask Bure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u84	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this was an inappropriate statement, and therefore... [[Kara.]] ...I would point out to you that this will never happen again. [[Financial punishment.]] Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, on behalf of the Freedom and Solidarni Posel Wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Social Rent Act. Both during the electoral campaign and after taking power, the United Right did not hide that it intended to change the current direction of the state's policy. He's going to change priorities so he can put a man first, take care of his families, and those who need him the most. For many previous years, social policy has been a part of the policy that has been of the least interest to the rulers. Actions were only taken to put out specific fires. Most of the time, however, many problems were swept under the carpet. Since the government took over, we've done a lot to help. No one can deny it. Suddenly there was money for 500+, for free medicines for seniors and for a reduction in retirement age. The money they said wasn't there. Contrary to the opposition's expectations, the budget did not collapse. Today we are looking at another proposal from the government to help those most in need, i.e. people with disabilities, a proposal drawn up together with representatives of the environment concerned, meeting its expectations. Equalisation of the social pension to the lowest pension charged for total incapacity for work, i.e. with the amount of PLN 1029 80 gr, it is a large undertaking, costing the budget about 45 million a month more than before. Of course, all this is not enough, not enough to repair decades of neglect. How many people would like more to be done so that all needs can be met in one moment, but in reality, I know that this is not possible. That is why I welcome these steps that lead us to our goal. Looking at the work of the government so far, I trust that it is guided by the welfare of our citizens and our country. I thank Minister Elżbieta Rafalska and her team for their work, for creating a country that is for the citizen and not following, as it has been so far, the principle that the citizen is for the State. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u86	Thank you, Member. So we proceed to the next stage of this point, that is, asking questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. You are starting a Civic Platform club by Michał Szczerba. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u87	Dear Marshal! Minister! The fact that this debate is taking place today and that the social pension is being increased for people with disabilities is the sole merit of people with disabilities and their parents who have been protesting in the building of our parliament for 21 days. They deserve the highest tribute, because today an increase in social pensions by 16% it is their credit for the entire environment of people with disabilities in our country. However, taking the opportunity to support this project, it is impossible not to ask for guardians of adults with disabilities, not to mention that the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal has not been implemented for more than 3 years, in which it has been found that the right to provide care for adults with disabilities is incompatible with the Constitution. I asked you this question in January, December. I received very strange answers from Minister Marczuk that you are analyzing that you are consulting, but there is no project and there is no funds. You've been hiding your head in the sand for three years. When there will be a project, when there will be resources and when carers of adults with disabilities will receive [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your money? They just deserve it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u88	Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 of the Government's draft law amending the Social Pensions Act is authorised for the President of the Social Insurance Institution to carry out transfers of planned expenditure between departments, chapters and paragraphs within the Social Insurance Institution for the payment of a social pension. It follows that the government will not contribute any money this year. Why? Is the government saving up for the next ministerial awards? If the Social Insurance Institution is to find funds within its budget, it will have to take them from another task. Minister, from what? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u90	Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask a similar question because, unfortunately, we did not have an answer on the committee. 45 million per year It's gonna be the cost of raising this... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] A month. ...about 130 zlotys, because so much physically, people who receive this pension will get their hands on them. I understand that next year it will be secured in the budget, while the bill states that it will enter into force on 1 September, but will apply with effect from 1 June, which means that this money must be secured for that time. Of course, there's a clever record that talks about transfers between chapters and cannons, and I'm just technically wondering whose cost it's going to be. Will it be from the Social Security Fund or will you give up the purchase of expensive uniforms? Where are the money physically coming from? I hope not from other benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u92	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki recently said that parents themselves know best how to spend money on their children. But they have to have them to spend. There had to be a protest of the guardians of the disabled, so that, finally, with the decline of the polls, the prize scandal, the PiS government would lean on this project. You will not cover the fact that the money - and it was over 600 million PLN - allocated and secured for the disabled by the previous government you spent for a completely different purpose. I wanted to ask you what the money was spent on. You're bragging that you've already increased your social pension by 50% during your reigns. After the current increase, the social pension will amount to PLN 878 net. That's an increase of about 37%. So where did 50% come from? In the Prime Minister's statements? In addition, you do not indicate from which money will be paid an increase in the benefit. Therefore, please indicate the sources of funding for the increase in the benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u94	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the authors of the minority proposal. It is known that those who receive a minimum pension are those who have worked for x years on the labour market, put on the tax system, put on the social security system and receive benefits from this system. The State proposes that people with similar disabilities, to a greater or lesser extent, should gradually receive a benefit, i.e. a social pension of up to 140%. that minimum pension received from the Social Security Office by those who paid contributions. Do you think this is fair? Regardless of the fact that it is small money that is not enough to live under decent conditions, we simply need to look at the relationship between these benefits. Please answer me. Do you think that's fair? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am here today not only as a Member, but also as a sister of 38-year-old Zygmus. Zygmus was born, at the age of 8 months had cerebral palsy and is deeply mentally impaired. My 84-year-old mom's taking care of him. During these days, people all over Poland are looking forward to resolving this difficult situation caused by 21-day protest of people, adult children with disabilities - because they always remain children, Minister. That's why my 38-year-old brother is Zygmus, not Zygmunt. These are the children that parents take care of. My 84-year-old mother is terrified of what's gonna happen if she's gone. These are very difficult matters, hence my appeal. I'm not gonna ask the Minister, I'm gonna have an appeal. This is also the appeal of the people who came to my office, the people from the organization in Wadowice. It is a committee Let's open the door to the world. Let's open the door to these people and give them a sense of security and dignity. In this difficult situation we have, we need to talk and start working out the situation normally, Minister. Hence the appeal and I thank everyone who today collects signatures in Wadowice and makes a picket to collect these signatures, appealing to Mr Morawiecki to lean over the fate, among others. my Zygmus, [[♪ The bell ♪]] over the fate of adults with disabilities who, after their parents are gone, will be put to the fate of someone else's care. Well, if they have siblings. But what if they don't have it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u98	Thank you, Member. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Madam, this question, this call you have concluded, is also addressed to you. What have you done for Zygmus for eight years? [[Applause]] The government bill amending the Social Rent Act is a solution expected by the disabled environment. Thank you very much to Minister Elżbieta Rafalska for this immediate response and such rapid preparation of this project. It is undoubtedly the first government, the first minister, who responds to the demands and implements them as quickly as possible. Question: "Will the planned increase in the amount of the social pension be made ex officio, or will the entitled person have to submit an application to the Social Insurance Institution?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u100	Thank you. In accordance with the list, I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska, the Law and Justice Club, to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent days, I have encountered many questions from people with disabilities. There are a lot of questions, and they're very interested in the bill that we're discussing right now. The frequently asked question with which I meet is the question of when the Social Security Office will pay social pensions in a new amount with compensation due since June. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u102	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargocka, the Law and Justice Club, to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Before I ask a question, Minister, I would like to correct Mr Jarubas' statement. Let us not practice politics on people with disabilities. [[But you're gonna straighten it out, aren't you?]] Mr Jarubas said that in the days of PO-PSL, local governments were obliged to transfer funds that are in education subsidies to schools. That is absolutely not true. This amendment takes place in the Education Financing Act, which has been in force since September 2017. With determination at the Ministry of National Education, we have been preparing this change for the first days. That's the thing that's a fact. I would like to ask the question of what benefits may be paid by persons entitled to a social pension under other laws. In addition to this financial sphere, how much does the State finance other services, other forms of assistance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u104	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have some substantive questions, but before I ask them, I would like to repeat my question that came out yesterday at the committee meeting. I call on Members, especially Members of the Civic Platform and the PSL, who have had the opportunity to manage, create social policy, to really lean on problems. If their sensitivity had been the same for the past years, we'd probably be talking about completely different problems today. That doesn't mean they wouldn't be here, but I'm sure everyone with disabilities would be better off. My question is: How much will it increase, Minister, as compared to 2015? Has this pension increased since January 2017 before the protest started? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You should know that. There's valorization.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u106	Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u107	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For years carers of disabled people received care services of PLN 420. This sum was increased to PLN 520. POs and PSLs were deaf to the demands for increased spending for people with disabilities. Today, this care provision amounts to PLN 1477. This is a significant increase in what was. I've been postulating for years. The PO-PSL government was deaf to these demands. Minister Elżbieta Rafalska and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy are doing a great deal for those in need of assistance, including those with disabilities. I have a question: How much will the social pension increase compared to 2015? When the Social Insurance Institution pays a new amount of social benefits with compensation due from June this year.? How much more investment has been made for disabled people under the rule of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u108	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2014, when you were here on this podium, you guided your finger that way, where you're sitting right now. You said it was your fault that there were children on the floors and their guardians. I'm not gonna act like this because I think it's completely pointless. I know if you could, you'd give the money. I just know it. You're in a difficult situation, that's why I'm talking about it. Let us remember only one thing, that the increase in this social pension is not due to the government, to any party, but to those parents who take money from the state every year, every time, whatever the government is. And I'm talking about this because one of the compromises that the protesters made was to put these 500 PLN into this social pension for rehabilitation. This is some sort of way out of the picture, because that's when this group of 280 grand covers it. I'm talking about it so you can think about it and discuss it, because it solves this case. I know it's hard for you, and I know that if you had the opportunity, you would have done it, but I think you should just say, "Basta and stand behind these people." You should do it. And I'm asking for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u110	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u111	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! It's a little too little to live, too much to die. Unfortunately, this is now the situation of people with disabilities. After all, we all know here that those amounts they keep are just too small. And you know it, too. And when you share a budget that is obviously not made of rubber, you first give it to those who need it the most. And I think we can agree that there are no more needy people than those who can't cope in a normal life than those who can't go to work, even though they really want to, because of their disability. And it is our duty - society, citizens, citizens, politicians - to provide them with a minimum of decent life. We're talking about minimum social, minimum survival. We're not talking about fanaberia. We're talking about money that, you know, you could say, they just deserved it. And that money belongs to them. These mothers, these adults with disabilities, being here, are fighting for their dignity, theirs and people who are like them, who will never take up employment, who will never be able to support themselves, who often have no chance of starting a family, but have their dreams, have their dignity and fight for it. Therefore, again, lean on this idea to include this 500 PLN rehabilitation supplement in this benefit. And the other thing. I would also very much ask Members and Members of the PiS to approach these people with dignity - to approach them with dignity - not to say that they treat their children as shields, because these parents will bring life and dignity to them every day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u112	Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on the increase of the amount of the social pension to 100% of the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work is the exit to meet the expectations of persons with disabilities. However, listening to the statements of the opposition representatives of the clubs, I feel that the state of this increase does not want for these people with disabilities. Instead of having a substantive debate, you are fleeing into political threads that people with disabilities do not need. The situation... [[Listen to yours.]] ...people with disabilities require extra-political action. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the opposition prefers to make decisions and destructive actions instead of structural actions for people with disabilities. Did the current situation that we are observing have to happen? No, it didn't have to be. It was not us who divided the environment of people with disabilities, it was the coalition of PO-PSL, especially in these unfortunate years 2011 and 2014. Today, the opposition calls on us to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal immediately. How many of you have failed to comply with TK rulings? Remind me? About 50. Isn't that... [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] [[Where's 650 million. Is it stuck somewhere?]] ...a symptom of hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen? That's right. This is a manifestation of extreme hypocrisy. Finally, Minister, I have a question. Is it true that spending on disabled people has increased to PLN 3 billion in the last two years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u114	Mr President, I will only draw attention to one thing. If you are addressing the opposition, please do not ask how many judgments the Constitutional Tribunal has executed Modern because it is the first time in the Sejm and is the opposition for the first time. Now, I ask you to ask me the question of Mr... [[Voice from the room: How do you get into the coalition...]] ... Jerzy Borowczak, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First, I would like to congratulate those who have so much perseverance that they are still in this Seym. I started a strike at Gdańsk Shipyard in 1980, 1982, in 1988 in May and I know how we waited for any conversation, such as would give us prospects for the future. I regretted it and talked about it in 2014 when these parents sat here for 14 days - and then I had the courage to talk about it - that people cannot be treated that way, that people cannot be treated like this. If we had a government like this in 1980, I don't know how long we'd be in that yard. But in substance, Minister, what are we supposed to say to the mother who gave birth to a disabled child who takes care of him for 30 years, the child dies and is charged 37 zlotys of retirement? What about those chaperones? Most of you talked about who's gonna take care of a kid like that when an old man dies. But if a single mother raises such a child 30 years old and this child dies, how do you secure such a person? These women are overloaded, their spines are broken, because such a 30-year-old child should take a wash... I was only three years old with a disabled son, and I know what it is, how much work it is. As long as it's tiny as it is, but when it's 20, it's a pain. We can't have these people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Torture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u116	Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. I would like to ask what has changed since 2014. I understand exactly the women who are sitting there. I raised 12 children, including two disabled children, and I know what that means, and I know how hard it is to get up in the morning, watch my kid, help him clean up, and try to get him to sleep at night, live with him all day. Thank God they weren't as sick as the children who were sitting here with us in the Seym. 21 days, 21 days, and I remember 21 demands on the shipyard. Ladies and gentlemen, this is terrible what we're doing. In 2014, you all sat there and encouraged them to take care of their business. I get it. At the time, I understood you very much. I don't understand today. Does that mean that changing the seat changes our face? I ask you to help these people, not only on their behalf, but also on behalf of all the people who send me letters. Really, I get hundreds of letters from people who have disabled children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u118	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u119	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am convinced that everyone, High Izbo, is leaning over the fate of people with disabilities and we would like to help solve this problem. So I have a question for you. The social minimum in Poland at the end of 2017 was PLN 1300, currently to be PLN 1000. Of this 1300, 400 PLN was allocated to the apartment, for food - 300 PLN, for clothing - 51 PLN, for means of purity - 34 PLN, for transport and communication - 82 PLN, for medicines - 41 PLN, for science and education - 17 PLN, for culture - 19. I have a question, Minister: What does a parent have to give up here to achieve this 1000 PLN? I organize a lot of charities myself, helping people not only poor, but also disabled, getting driveways, apartments, household appliances, clothing, food. Mostly women -- to me they're like heroes -- they raise these children themselves, men go away, leave them, and they fight to survive, to raise these children. I think we all need to be united here so we can help these families. We wanted kids like that, kids like that were born, so in order for them to live properly, we have to help them. We all have to speak with one voice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] find this money to help and make these disabled people live dignifiedly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u120	Thank you, sir. And the next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u121	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments or areas in our work, but also in social activity or in public life, in social life, when politics should look at them as little as possible. And it seems to me that today we are dealing with this problem, we have this situation when we have to speak with one voice and consider all these things that have arisen, not politically, but in substance. Ladies and gentlemen, when one person is ill, the whole family usually gets sick, the whole house gets sick. This is the situation that makes it possible to say that the house is sick. But we also have to take into account that this is what should mobilise all of us to find a good solution. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that there is a concrete offer on the table, an offer presented by Minister Rafalska, which, ladies and gentlemen, needs to be discussed substantively and not politically. Unfortunately, there were a few such issues today, a few such speeches took place. Very bad, very bad, that's what's happening. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Wielgus said it was your fault, pointing to the Minister, that these people today... that these people were lying there, turning to opposition at the time. Madam President, nothing has changed, in my opinion it is still the fault of today's opposition, but the places have changed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're sitting right here. You've had so much time to help, and today I'm asking you not to boil. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: After all, without politics there was to be.]] [[Come down. Go to them.]] Don't boil, get into a real, good discussion, a good discussion without politics. Don't budge.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u122	Please, Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Piotr Kalet began to speak so nicely, but unfortunately he cut the entire speech at the end. I don't think anybody else thought he'd be able to count on the biggest aid from the state after the events of the last few years when you were behind people with disabilities. You've been given a huge mandate to support this group. I think, Minister, that you, sitting here, in the place where you are sitting, probably mostly agree with our requests, with our arguments, and I'm sure you would also like to help these people, but there is a lack of these resources. I think, however, that this social group is far more in need than many families with at least two children and quite decent income, because this help is definitely more needed by this social group. And I can honestly say that I very much support those moms who are fighting for their children here. They're not really fighting for their existence, but they're fighting for their future. When we talk, these moms first of all ask what happens to these kids when they're gone. And that's kind of the biggest concern about this whole thing. That's why I'm hoping it'll actually work here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] take this subject on a systematic basis, not on an ad hoc basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u124	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Yesterday at an hour. 2 a.m. tired after a long journey I came here to the Sejm. I've seen people who are wasted and despicable, on-going, fighting. I respect the money, but this 500 PLN is not worth their humiliation and humility. My whole adult life I've been trying to help people as much as I can and can. My heart is squeezing when my moms fight for every 100 zlotys. They come to me, to my companies, and they ask. My wife always tells me, don't say no to anyone, give me at least 100 zlotys. Minister, you can't imagine how much humility these women must have in themselves by asking for this money. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: I imagine.]] They talk about spines, they talk about body overloads, where I live, there are people, I've been helping them for many years, as far as I can and as far as I can. I want to be clear: why do we need 10 kilometers of investment road to drive around it, to use it when we have a flaw on our heart? I'm in Parliament, I know you a little bit, I know you have a good heart, that you can't do everything that you can't solve all the problems, but this case, these people - you can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my opinion, this limit has been exceeded. And I'm not doing any politics here, that's the need for a moment, that's what we all have to do, even at the expense of a lot of investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. And the next question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u127	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A lot of people in this podium asked if this protest had to happen. Minister, you know very well that you did not have to, that if the government, which was in opposition in 2014, had said that the priority of its government would be people with disabilities, it began this term with the adoption of this resolution that we are talking about today, the situation could have gone completely differently, but you did not. You spent billions of zlotys for different purposes, and you didn't find 700 million zlotys to raise your social pension and tax it. You guys don't even want to do it today because our tax bill is still on the sidelines. I wanted to ask what has changed since 2014 that you were supporting people with disabilities here in the Sejm, also introducing them and supporting their protest, and today Mrs Krynicka says that the disabled are simply to go to work and their parents are holding them here by force. Mr Pięta proposes that they be removed by force from the Sejm, and Mr Żalek says that children are living shields for their parents. Minister! Fight for the disabled, but also ask your clubmates and your clubmates to show respect for these people, respect and respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u128	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Therefore, the last person to ask the question is Mrs Agnieszka Chcaj, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Izbo! I have used this mode because there is no other one, and the question of Mrs Eve Tomaszewska has been asked to me, and concerning this amendment, the minority proposal I have tabled. Madame, you are right. I know, too, about all these groups, I know how many neglects there are in this sphere, and I know how many people live below the poverty line. So the question is, are we going to be equal to the bottom, or are we going to keep trying to make people better? There's this inequality when we put it together, for example. The fact that someone receives from the state, in fact for free, 500 PLN or now 300 PLN expeditions, when it has 10,000. income, and the person who has 900 PLN does not receive. Why do we always compare with those with less? Let's combine with those who have more if we give away, and in the case of other groups let's start the system changes, let's make the system changes. I have a clear conscience, really, that I am making this amendment because from the beginning of this term I wanted to involve the government, I wanted to talk about the major systemic changes that need to be done. The case-law has been unreformed for years, and you know that in this group there are 1 million people who have a significant degree of disability, who once received such a decision, because there was unemployment and there was such a fashion, they left, for example. They're in the same group, too. If you started all these reforms by verifying who's getting benefits, who's in this group, and if there really are those who should be in this group, because I don't think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'd really have the money for this group. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u130	That was the last question in this group of questions. For this reason, I ask you to answer this question and to the earlier questions of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the fact that this debate today, certainly emotional, because we are talking about the problems of people with disabilities, is very serious. I have different experiences from this House and for this fact and thank you very much for this tone. It must be made clear that the discussion on a bill that balances the social pension with a minimum pension or a pension for total incapacity for work is indeed the result of the ongoing protest in the Seym, but it is also a quick response of the government to this important request, not only to the women protesting in the Seym, but also to the request raised for many, many years by various groups of people with disabilities. Before I move on to the bill, maybe I will address those issues that have been far beyond the framework of this project and relate in general to the approach of the Government of Law and Justice, our actions for the benefit of people with disabilities, those actions that we have taken. What has happened, has the question been raised here since 2014 or 2015? Well, it happened. It was a change of the governing team and, as you know, it happens at the end of the year. The Government of Law and Justice took over the 2016 budget prepared by the previous Civic Platform and PSL coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that in this budget we have found a security for the expenditure of the 500+ family policy programme, thanks to which, as part of this first step, we have been instrumental in supporting families raising children with disabilities up to 18 years old. And how did we support them, through what differentiation mechanism when it comes to disabled and disabled children? Let us remember that in the case of the first child we have an income criterion of 800 PLN, and if there is a disabled child in the family - 1200 PLN. There is no such criterion in any other provision in our benefit scheme, which would vary by 50% in income. Thanks to this in the first year almost 1 billion, because over 900 million PLN, and now in 2017, when there was year-round funding, we addressed 1370 million PLN to families with children with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the first year, 2016. In 2017, there was year-round financing. Then immediately - bearing in mind the very difficult situation of carers of disabled people - we introduced a regulation that gave carers of disabled people the right to unemployment benefits or, if the conditions are met, the right to pre-retirement benefits. It's simple, but we did it. These people did not stay the day after the death of their loved ones, after the trauma of their departure, without any protection. We considered that this term of care should be regarded as a job and that these persons acquire these rights, such as the person who acquires the right to unemployment benefit, or the person who, under special circumstances, may exercise the right to a pre-retirement benefit. There were questions about the expenses, what these expenses look like. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not discuss any specific items, but it can be said that these expenditures have increased in 2 years, between 2015 and 2017 - I am not talking about 2018 - about about about PLN 3 billion. We still have a programme for life, a multi-annual programme, whose funding in the 5-year cycle is at the level of PLN 3100 million. Could there have been more? I guess you could do that. Could it have been done any faster? We're trying to work really fast, but there are things... The ladies who are sitting here, the Members who sit in the Social Policy Committee - I'm sorry, they work in the Social Policy Committee, they know that system solutions, solutions for creating, I don't know, support centres, environmental institutions, daily forms of assistance require not only financial, temporary, local government involvement. It's not just writing a good bill, it's not just giving money. For example, an increase of nearly PLN 160 million in funds to finance environmental self-help homes today gives the possibility to create rural centres for people with disabilities in municipalities, people who are sometimes pulled out of homes after many, many years of operation only in home conditions. We create these conditions, we encourage those local governments that have not been interested so far and which are sometimes still not interested, we tell them: do it because it is worth it. So this increase in expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, has also taken place. I'm gonna move on to social security and the fact that we're doing everything under duress. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 March 2017. Our first independent budget, our government's budget - raising the minimum pension and social pensions. The increase in 2017 was an increase by 13%, by 13.3%, i.e. by 98.65 PLN, while in other years it was normal valorization and pension increased by 11 PLN, 30 PLN, 1.20 PLN. In 2018 this pension increased by 25 PLN. The planned increase of PLN 164.77, by 19%, which together gives, as I say, not 50% , not 37% , only exactly 39.2% height. Indeed, for years we have said that the amount of the pension for people who cannot earn an internship because they cannot work should not be 84% , it should only be equal to the amount of the pension for total incapacity for work, the pensions for those who have worked, got sick and could not improve themselves to a minimum pension. Because in this discussion, ladies and gentlemen, let us also remember that in order to obtain entitlement to a minimum pension, which is PLN 1029, women must work 20 years and men must be 25 years old. Today this pension will be raised to PLN 1029,80. Her payment - the questions raised - will be launched on 1 September, because the Social Insurance Institution needs time to prepare for these payments, to prepare its systems. But this pension will be paid with compensation from 1 June, for July, August, and from September will be normal payments. I would also like to say that this year, since 1 March 2018, we have paid the rencistom annual compensation for total incapacity for work, with a backward calculation from 1 March 2017, because they were also not included in this increase. How many people do we pay this social pension, ladies and gentlemen? In 2017, the social pension was paid to 278 300 people. For this purpose, the Social Insurance Institution spent PLN 2745 million. Questions were raised, and it was a few questions about how expenses are secured and why one of the articles, art. 3, talks about authorising the President of the Social Insurance Institution to transfer them between departments and chapters of the Social Insurance Fund. I assure you that such authorisation is necessary to amend this financial plan of the Social Insurance Fund, whose calculation was made on the basis of the level of social pensions that have been in force so far. There was a question about what the cost was. It's gonna happen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no situation in which any benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution and financed by the Social Insurance Fund, which are compulsory and therefore compulsory, may be at risk. This situation does not exist at all. Let us also remember that the Social Insurance Fund, not the Social Insurance Institution, just the FUS... [[But it's not from the fund, Minister.]] ... receives a grant from the state budget, which complements this fund so that we can regulate these payments on an ongoing basis. Let us also bear in mind that on 1 January of this year an e-payment was introduced, which improved the collection of contributions due - not only in the case of the Social Insurance Institution, because this contribution accumulates social security contributions, the National Health Fund, the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund or the Pomost Pension Fund - that the income of the Social Insurance Fund is much higher than those forecasted in the planning of the Social Insurance Fund. [[But social security isn't from the fund.]] So the financial consequences, and here we're not just taking into account these social benefits... [[But the social pension, the minister, is from the budget, not from the fund.]] ...which are in the Social Insurance Institution, but also pensions paid by KRUS, MON, MSWiA and the Ministry of Justice are exactly 280 thousand. This is the state of March 2018. The financial consequences in 2018 will amount to 315 million with the compensation of this benefit, as I said, from 1 June. In the following years, the financial impact - already year-round, not 7 months - will be 540 million. This authorisation is necessary to move funds from Chapter 75 303: Social Security Fund... [[A bet, not a fund.]] ...§ 2430, the grant from the state budget to the special fund, to the chapter: Social pensions. It was also such a concern whether it poses any threat to the payment of the personal costs of the establishment or employees of the Social Insurance Institution. Ladies and gentlemen, these are two separate funds. Something completely different is the Social Insurance Fund, something else is the Social Insurance Fund, from which these payments are made. [[The social pension is not from the Social Insurance Fund.]] It was raining, ladies and gentlemen, such a very dramatic question, and it always rains, as we meet moms of people with disabilities, which will happen when we are gone. What happens when we're gone? This is the biggest concern of parents of disabled people. She also asked whether this benefit, after notification of this amendment, was 30% or 40%. , this pension of 1300, 1200 or 1400, that is a benefit that will secure enough. Of course not. This is a low benefit, but maybe not everyone knows that, please, we have a coincidence in the right to a survivor's pension and a social pension, that is the principle of coincidence of the right to two pensions in respect of social pensioners. And the social pensioner retains the right to his social pension and has the right to a social pension from his parents. [[It's reduced.]] If the second pension after the parents is small, he has the right to retain the pension in such a way that the pension does not exceed 200% of the amount of the lowest pension. Today it is the amount of PLN 2059. If there is a situation where one parent has a higher benefit, more favourable than the coincidence of those two benefits, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this can make the choice of this higher benefit. Such a right, I ask you, to coincide, to determine the coincidence of social and family pensions is absolutely more favourable for persons whose disability has been created up to 18 or 25 years of age...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u132	Minister, as time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna go slowly too...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u134	But I'm gonna extend your time, just tell me how much more time you need to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u135	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u136	Here you go, five minutes longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u137	Madam President, a few people have rightly said here that we must help the most deprived. This was called upon by the honourable Member, and this has been mentioned by the Members. If we had a good, normal case law in Poland today, which has not been established by system errors for not only those 8 years that we so often talk about here in the Sejm, but twenty years or even longer, we would have a completely different situation. We'd have a completely different situation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, we have a group of people who have a ruling on a significant degree of disability, in which there are people with a severe degree of disability, like today disabled adults who protest in the Sejm and who often report to your office, my office, your offices with whom we still have some contact, but we know very well that among those with judgments are those who do not need such assistance. However, in the light of the law, and of the case law of the Constitutional Court and of that judgment, which you so often used here, the principle of equal treatment must be applied regardless of when the disability arose. And that is not my argument, ladies and gentlemen, presented for the purpose of weakening the discussion with the protesters, but that is the fact that - and that is also what differs us in this discussion - that my responsibility is also responsible for good system solutions, because today, ladies and gentlemen, we are responsible and may be so in the next term of office, but if any further authority comes and we make serious mistakes today that will result in the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal or disrupt the whole system, we will have rights acquired. I have here, ladies and gentlemen, that sentence in which there are references to these three principles, right? We can apply the income criterion, we can't differentiate the disabled because of the age of disability, and the third is that we can also differentiate. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this solution, which was introduced - and there is no reason to brag about it, because under the conditions of the protest it was introduced, I am talking about the care provision, which today amounts to PLN 1470 - we have a diverse group of carers of adults with disabilities and those persons who collect the benefit of PLN 1470, which the Constitutional Tribunal questioned, stating that it is possible to introduce a profit criterion, but this should not be differentiated. You shouldn't differentiate. And tell me how to get out of this mat. How do I do that? We already have two groups of adult carers, a special criterion, ordinary without a criterion, because the tribunal ordered to retain acquired rights, are we who have the right to their benefit without an income criterion and there is a judgment of the tribunal which states: enter the criterion, etc. And all those who do social policy remember that they're still there. We have an EWK pension that says, "Let's get an early retirement - and the one behind the communes, I think... [[Not for communions, not for communions.]] ...or before, but some years ago, 20 years ago, we had to work 20 years. In order to have 900 zł of benefits today, less than those who receive the care service today. Should we forget about these people, because then we didn't bring in the equalization of this EWK witness? [[Minister, that's not what you promised.]] So these are the limits. I would like to say, Madame, that, knowing your temper, I was expecting a greater attack from you, so I think that this voice of yours is a reasonable approach to how I would like to resolve this problem. It's obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that I would like to, only if we didn't solve the problem of case law that we're working on in the privacy of our office, in the privacy of our office, so that we don't get... [[3 years. 3 years.]] Not three years, Member. [[3 years.]] We haven't ruled for three years, Member. If we were in charge for three years, we'd be a step further. But let me say this: we work for 1.5 years or more, we already have proposals, concrete proposals. But I have to go back to that, I'm not going to say eight years, that for two terms no one has even made this attempt. Nobody even tried. Extremely difficult, ladies and gentlemen, because I don't know how we're gonna make it. Because I have tried to standardise the case law within all systems: MON, KRUS, MMA and ZUS. Today I say, let's make it independent, make it dependent, because society is getting older, because we need to know who needs to get and who can't. [[Exactly.]] So we're going to do this, but we have a piece of work that I'm sure President Uścińska and the team that worked hard will not complain about. If we are talking about the sharing of the disabled, then this division took place, at that moment, also in connection with that judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which we did not know about, ladies and gentlemen, how this would go... [[Minister, we have...]] ...because good solutions to difficult problems won't be written on your knees so quickly, ladies and gentlemen. It's not gonna write so fast. We say the social pensioners will get this benefit. And we say: if, among these social renownists, we give one group of social renownists, I will immediately have the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the differentiation of persons with disabilities due to the age of disability, because someone will be 26 years old and will have the same seriously ill independent person. [[Minister, I'm sorry, it's not appropriate.]] So it's definitely not this direction, ladies and gentlemen. What are we gonna say about the Constitutional Court's judgment? We also need a new approach to case law to implement this judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal, but of course we will be thinking about raising it - we will see how - a benefit for carers of disabled people. I would also like to say today that this is the second solution that we are going to proceed on in a moment, which is the answer to the highly individualised needs of people with disabilities, because, ladies and gentlemen, as we meet with the environments of people with disabilities, they say every time: the situation of each person, every family is different... [[She's different, just like that.]] ...is just different. These needs must be individualised. One person needs a daily stay, another needs other help, another needs rehabilitation, etc. [[Interviews.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've got a workshop on occupational therapy, right? We have environmental self-help homes. We have this final form, which, of course, we are talking about, is this final solution, which is social services houses, if there is no other solution. I am absolutely not in favour of giving institutional care facilities around the clock. Always where family can be and receive support, you just have to keep it and you have to keep it. I know that yesterday at the committee meeting, the draft law equalizing this pension was given to you in full support and that this is a certain expression, ladies and gentlemen, of our common position regarding the problems that... I am not saying that one of you may feel guilty, it may be less important, but we are sure that we are aware of how difficult, complicated this matter is, how much we care about ending this protest so that people with disabilities can still go home today and believe that we will, ladies and gentlemen, work on further solutions. Let's not forget that in the Lifelong Care Act, we have assisted housing, training housing, we have a personal assistant for a disabled person, we have an Accessibility+ programme, which has multi-billion-dollar funding in a multi-annual perspective, we have additional financial support for children with disabilities in daycare, in kindergartens - we have additional resources for this. We have the resources of the Labour Fund for the professional activation of carers of adults with disabilities, parents, because we say that they also need to be allowed to return to the labour market under preferential conditions if they wanted or had the opportunity to combine both. And last but not least, thank you again for this calm and factual discussion. I believe that the entire parliament will support the legislative proposal proposed by the government to compensate for this social pension. Maybe I'll say this a little bit for growth - I've already said this before - but I believe that in the next year we will think about the lowest pension benefits growing faster than would have been pointed out by the statutory valorization of increasing pension benefits through inflation rates and a 20% share of wage increases. Always me, as Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and my leadership, we have this in mind because we always try to support the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u138	Thank you very much. [[Minister, thank you for speaking, but we don't need the central port for many billions. Let's give him up.]] I would also ask you to speak because such a request has been made, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Teresa Wargocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to thank you very much for your work in committee and today's debate in the plenary room. We'll meet again today at an hour. 19, to review the proposed amendment at second reading. Since the Minister has answered all the questions very comprehensively, I also thank the Minister and invite you to continue to cooperate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u140	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the draft law on special solutions supporting people with significant disabilities (prints No. 2479 and 2489). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee. [[35 billion, Minister, to the port.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the draft law on special solutions supporting people with significant disabilities, print No 2479, and the report by the committee is print No 2489. April 30th this year Ww. The project entered the Sejm. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 7 May 2018. The contested bill introduces solutions that aim to cover people with a significant degree of disability regardless of their age with specific forms of support. It will bring real savings in the household budgets of those families to households where there is a person with disabilities. This is another step towards a systemic solution to the difficult and complex situation of people with disabilities and their families. The Law and Justice Government has consistently implemented programmes dedicated to people with disabilities since its oath. Only in 2016 and 2017, spending on carers and people with disabilities has increased to almost 3 billion. We know that this is still not enough, but in addition to financial expenditures we need to rebuild a fragmented, inconsistent system of case law, support and assistance for people with disabilities. The proposed draft law proposes the abolition of the periods of use of medical devices set out in the Refund Act for medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. The right to benefit outside the order of health care services and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies. Once the proposed law has entered into force, people with a significant degree of disability will have the right to benefit from specialized benefits without having to receive a referral. The revised bill provides for the abolition of the financing limit for health care services in the context of contracts concluded by the National Health Fund and financed by its budget. The proposed regulations will result in the spending of funds from the National Health Fund's financial plan. The project is not covered by European Union law. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting yesterday following its first reading, discussion, consideration and submission of two amendments, one of which was editorial and legislative, and this amendment was positively adopted... A second amendment was also tabled, which was negative by the committee. It was reported as a minority request. This was Mrs Agnieszka's amendment to the Prosecution and concerned payment to the recipient having a decision on a significant disability of the amount of the aid allowance of PLN 500 per month. After considering the project as a whole with 20 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and no votes against, the committee welcomed the draft law on special solutions supporting persons with significant disabilities and asks the High Sejm to approve the above. The bill's draft. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u142	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Jack World to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law on Special Solutions to Support Persons with Significant Disabilities. High Izbo! And the constitution, and the World Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities impose on you a duty of care, special care for disabled persons, their families, guardians. We all know that the implementation of this obligation is not easy and is very expensive. The Government of Law and Justice is gradually seeking to increase the scope of this care by taking advantage of the increasing financial condition of the State. And so we should read this project that we are talking about today, a project that even the toughest opposition called a step in the right direction. We must remind here that these steps have been and there are many. Let us remind you that in parallel we are considering the bill raising the social pension. Let us remind you that the 500+ programme covered 90% children with disabilities. Since January, the care provision has increased. We took the second parent into custody as a parent for a second disabled child. We are implementing a program that supports families who have a child with disabilities. The multi-annual Availability+ programme is launched, massive funding is planned, a programme to break down architectural, technical barriers. We increased funding for the cost of staying in WTZs and for purchasing rehabilitation equipment, for the functioning of environmental self-help homes. This list could be extended even further. I can say with satisfaction that during these 2.5 years we have done for people with disabilities, I think, more than our predecessors by two terms. And only in this context You can see the meaning of the bill we're working on. The law - already mentioned, so let me remind you - has four points in general: the abolition of periods of use of medical devices, the right to use outside the order of health care services and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, the right to benefit from specialized services without having to receive a referral, unlimited financing by the NFZ of medical rehabilitation services. These are the postulates that I often meet in my daily parliamentary work, and very often I work, I contact organizations and people with disabilities. We are, of course, aware that many challenges ahead of us, that the list of needs is very long, but I am also amazed to hear that the biggest critics of these solutions are those who, when ruling, themselves had many years to solve certain issues. Today, these problems we are talking about are to a large extent a decline after you. Are we fully able to solve all these problems? We'll probably be different sentences, but at least we're trying and we have, I think, good results. Of course, this work on improving the quality of life, the dignity of the disabled, their families and their loved ones must continue. I think that this must be done first and foremost responsibly, i.e. First, not to divide, not to forge any of the groups, any of the environments of people with disabilities or other social groups; second, to build system solutions, which are consistent and not chaotic; thirdly, to show care for the state budget. We can't spend more than we make. It would make absolutely no sense, and it would be irresponsible. I believe that in the case of the bill we are working on, this responsibility has been shown, and therefore, of course, my club will support it. I would also like to call on other clubs to adopt this law, to approve it, and I would like to appeal to the ladies who are protesting to stop this protest, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they suspended, because step by step we implement all the demands of this environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u144	Thank you. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform. Here you go, another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position towards the parliamentary draft law on special solutions supporting people with significant disabilities, print No 2479. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in our view this is an inept attempt to solve the problem of disabled people caused by the protest of representatives of this environment in the Sejm, which has lasted for 21 days. It's an attempt to cover three years of idleness and neglect by the Ministry of Labour and Government on this subject. The following facts clearly show this. Lack of implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment on equalisation of the rights of guardians of disabled persons - adults and children. The platform, let me remind you, left 657 million in the state budget for the implementation of this judgment. What happened to the money? We also have doubts as to whether the Act will apply to all children up to the age of 16 affected by disability. There it is written: up to the age of 18, but the record refers to congenital disability. Please state that the draft law should not be examined at all because, according to the opinion expressed by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, it is incompatible with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because it does not contain a financial statement concerning both the state budget and the NFZ budget. Well, it's either another sloppy marshal who put the project to the committee or, as usual, on the part of the PiS, a complete disregard for the law and the constitution. What can I say? Because there is a heyt against those who are protesting in the Seym today, because they are also disdainful and unfavorable statements of the PiS Members, the question is: Isn't this a law for the needs of the PR-PiS? After all, on government television it will be possible to say: We gave these bad protesting mothers more than they wanted because they wanted 500 zlotys, and we gave 520. But I have a question for the Minister. You gave the package. On what basis, since there are no provisions concerning its financing in the Act, have you valued the value of this package at PLN 520? We Members could not find this record anywhere. You seem to be speaking different languages. You don't understand what protesters say. They don't talk about 500 PLN package. They talk about the need for 500 PLN as a rehabilitation supplement for people with disabilities unable to live on their own after the age of 18. You don't want to understand that rehabilitation isn't just medical rehabilitation. This is the whole complicated process for which these 500 zlotys are necessary. This is training, these are trips, after all it is an opportunity to create normal living conditions for those disabled people who are locked in their homes. I'm gonna focus on the detailed records now, because you're gonna focus on the records... It doesn't cost you anything. If you're talking about queue-free access to rehab, someone's gonna fall out of line. Retired people fall out, people fall out after surgery. If you're talking about queue-free access to specialists who have signed certain contracts, then some part of society will be shifted in these multi-month queues. You were supposed to eliminate these queues, and unfortunately, by the failed reform of Minister Radziwiłł, they are growing in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask how much you value. this is a free seat in line at the pharmacy for a disabled person, because it is already a complete mockery of us, Members, and of people with disabilities. No line for the disabled at the pharmacy. Something like that, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't met a record like this. Finally, the question of this kind... Ladies and gentlemen, you really have a budget surplus and you're throwing away the money. You don't want to give it to the disabled. Here's what I'm going to tell you: 2019, the construction of unnecessary shooting galleries in powiats, 3.5 billion PLN - the creation of a completely unnecessary army of territorial defence... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry, I'm done. 2,6 billion zlotys are shooting galleries, 3.5 billion are territorial defences, the regime television received 1 billion zlotys, the Czartoryski collection, which should still be in the country, did not have to be bought - 500 million zlotys, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish National Foundation - 243 million PLN. Last sentence, Marshal. Because this bill doesn't hurt anybody, and maybe there will be people with disabilities who will be helped by some of its records, the Civic Platform Club will vote for it, although we think it's dead and it's only made for the PiS PR. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u146	Ms Agnieszka Chagaj will speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the proposed bill, print No. 2479. And here again, Minister: the bill, as everyone said, is a step in the right direction. I don't think a step in the right direction is enough. If this law had been passed at another time, if this law had been dealt with in normal mode, then no one would have any doubt, even if only one person at that time had used a shorter queue, a free specialist or a little more had received funds. Then no one would have any doubts. On the other hand, when you came to the protesters with this proposal - I saw it in the images from the cameras - and the Minister often appears and I take the Minister as a very honest person and very empathetic, then you were not. Your entire body language has shown that you don't believe what you're saying, in this bill, really. And, Minister, that's when you turned on the button that you shouldn't have turned on in this case. I understand how much baggage you carry and how hard it is to fix it all. What you said earlier here about this system of case law and all the other elements you are struggling with, I was pleased. It's a burden and I'm fully aware that it's not that simple. However, you had to stay at your post and try, even at the price of a few points in the posts less, explain it to these women. 'Cause when you pulled that button, we're gonna beat you politically, these women already sensed it, and they got stiff. They just felt disappointed. That disappointment didn't come first. It's a disappointment they've been experiencing for many years. They always stand on the barricade: the government and opposite them, and they fight for their children, really unpolitically. And then you had to not go through with it, not go down that road, say that we have no money or that we are able to negotiate something for five years, 10 years, go through this more difficult road, consistent, but more difficult and translate. That's not an answer to their demands. This is a good step, but this is not an answer to their demands. I have tabled an amendment that really introduces what is always a problem, i.e. the differentiation of people with disabilities, to a certain part of this law. In the group to which this law is addressed, people with a significant degree of disability are disabled persons with different needs. And you can't divide them into the ones that need diapers, and the ones that don't need diapers. We need to divide and individualize this support, like you said. We need to individualize the support. In general, the model of social assistance and social problems is changing and we need to move towards individual support, individualised support. Therefore, as we speak constructively, because this debate really began to have a constructive dimension in Parliament for the first time, please go back to good reforms, to thinking about good reforms. Please pay attention to the labour market institutions, to the combination of two systems - social assistance and labour market institutions, because 70% Their clients are the same families. Look for a different approach. Look at how Slovakia has dealt with this, how Scandinavia has dealt with it, how they have individually helped families who need it, how well they dedicate money, how they have been able to save money, how we can save about 5 billion, how we can help with it and really provide it individually, but based on what family and disabled person need, how they can come out of the crisis, or possibly dedicate to them exactly the kind of help they will need their whole life, because such families will also be. Please, if we are already going towards the system of ruling, approach and look at the current state, what the Labour Fund looks like, from which 12 billion PLN per year is spent in the country, when there is virtually no unemployment or if unemployment is, it affects people who are not at the same time able to cope with life and are covered by social assistance. I allow myself to smuggle in this content because this debate encouraged me to do so, and I started my term by proposing such conversations that I invited the Slovak Minister here. He was, the government didn't show up, and there were various scientific debates. I'm not saying you have to do what Kukiz is proposing. I encourage you to start talking about the reform of the social assistance system as you have said, taking into account your individual approach. And this amendment is about letting these people have all this baggage that involves the burden of social, professional, medical rehabilitation, address it as they need it. One person needs to buy diapers, and the other person who doesn't see, for example, to develop and communicate with the world needs audiobooks or hypotherapy, which is no longer in your offer. This is an individual approach. That's why it's an amendment. This amendment is also made at the request of the protesters. I will withdraw this amendment if the earlier one, relating to social pensions, passes because it is the same goal - PLN 1300 for the decent, normal life of people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u148	Thank you. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about the solutions that the government is proposing to people who have a ruling on a significant degree of disability. However, it should be noted and strongly emphasised that this is not an answer to the protest of people with disabilities in the Sejm. The protesting parents presented today at a press conference a four-minute video presenting the promises of PiS politicians from when they were an opposition and from the last election campaign. I encourage you to read this video. It is available online. Mr Kaczyński, Mr Rafalska, Mr Mazurek, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and President Andrzej Duda and many others. A few years ago, they knew what sickness, disability, sacrifice were, the love that forced parents to make the most dramatic sacrifices. They allowed the same group, in the same corridors, to protest in the Seym with demands to ensure a decent life for people excluded by the system and argued with the then government about the money owed to independent and dependent Polish citizens. They won't even approach them today, they won't ask how they feel, they won't talk so purely in human terms, they won't do what they thought they could do a few years ago with one signature. This is not a law that implements any postulate of protesters. It's not even a law that really changes anything in the lives of people with disabilities, because there's no money for it, and the records are about everything and nothing. Maybe there will be more free diapers and priority queues at the pharmacy or no need to have a referral to a gynecologist, dentist and HIV test. It's for people with a significant degree of disability. The question is whether a referral is needed for all these studies today. But is that really what the disabled need? It's a drop in the ocean of need. The modern one will probably vote in favour of this law, although with great reluctance, because it is a law written on the knee, for the deafening of the protesters. The bill inspired by the parent of a disabled person, who, after the protest in the Sejm, wrote a letter to the Minister in which he asked for free rehabilitation. Today this gentleman called me, explaining, almost crying, that his writing was misinterpreted, that he felt deceived by the government, because his words created this bill and are now being used in conversations with protesters. And he made it clear that independents, apart from money for life, also need free rehabilitation, and he asked for it. The government has left only rehabilitation and only the healing one. Without information on the extent to which it will be allocated to persons with disabilities. This cheated father, through my person, apologizes to all the disabled that he suggested to the government an idea that is now being used to silence the protest. Similarly, NGOs have been used to sign an agreement with the government, an agreement that has never been reached on the protest, and has not been there so far. Therefore, there are still people with disabilities in the seym halls - 21st day. To conclude, I would like to give the floor to these very people, parents of disabled people protesting in the Sejm. These are a few sentences from their statement of 28 April: The proposed solutions sanction the deprivation of a disabled person's right to choose form and type of therapy and rehabilitation, i.e. the benefits to be financed by the proposed rehabilitation allowance and the possibility to purchase services not available under the NFZ. The payment of benefits in kind works in the case of benefits for dysfunctional families, where there are problems related to addiction to alcohol, drugs or gambling. Directing benefits to us in this way is a form of discrimination and objectification of a disabled person. Reducing the broad concept of rehabilitation for physical rehabilitation medical evidence of lack of identification of the needs of persons with disabilities, incompetence or ill will of the authors of this procedure. The higher life costs incurred in relation to disability are not only and not always medical rehabilitation, equipment and medical supplies. Part of people with disabilities requiring treatment or highly specialised rehabilitation, social rehabilitation, specialised psychological therapy, training of social skills or assistance, people who bear higher costs, for example mobility or diet in the solutions proposed by the government would not find any offer for themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These and other absurd offers we find in the proposed solutions and the ostentatious violation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which assumes the full subjectivity of the disabled person, have made the government's proposal rejected by us. We say: enough discrimination against people with disabilities, the protest continues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u150	Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u151	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on special solutions supporting people with significant disabilities, print No 2479. Ladies and gentlemen! 20 days - it took PiS to fulfill one of the protesters' demands. And thank God it worked out, but the problem is that after 20 days, the government is still getting lost. The project that we started working on at the committee meeting last night assumes the introduction of specific powers in access to healthcare services, pharmaceutical services and medical devices for people with a judgment of considerable disability. Sounds good. The project proposes e.g. elimination of periods of use e.g. wheelchairs. Persons with a significant disability ruling would also have the right to benefit from health benefits outside the order. They could also benefit from pharmaceutical services in pharmacies and specialist services without the need for referral. It's all worth more than 500 zlotys a month. It's all beautiful, except that you have nothing to do with demands, all the more so to the expectations of the disabled and their carers. Protestants may feel deceived, they may resent the rulers. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, what do you mean? Why don't you listen to what the people in the Seym say? Why can't you hear the disabled? Why can't you hear that the rehabilitation package you're feeding them doesn't meet their expectations and needs? We don't buy what you're saying about the annual replacement of a wheelchair, about virtual savings, which means rehabilitates without a queue. The problem is that, as the carers say, people with disabilities often have to travel dozens of kilometres to such rehabilitators. That's why they're fighting for extra money for their lives. 500 PLN is their petition. The important thing is that they want to go towards a compromise, talk about the distribution of this amount on instalments, because it's a gradual inquiry into it. If in fact, ladies and gentlemen, you have pure intentions, let's talk about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u152	The remaining part of the time will be used by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, including the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is the response of the PiS Members, with the government, it is undoubtedly a protest that started 20 days ago in the Seym. It is not the first protest of exactly the same ladies, the same people, the same children. Four years ago, they also protested, fighting for their rights. And then what did we hear from the PiS politicians? President of PiS Jarosław Kaczyński about the same parents, only that four years earlier, he said: If power is unable to show compassion, it simply shows its face. And what face does Law and Justice show? Mrs Krynicka says that this is a circus, that they are not partners to talk to and that she would like to find a paragraph on these parents. Mr Pięta shows even more empathy - he would like to remove both protesting parents and their children from the Sejm and hand them over to the police. That's your face behind this empty bill. I will remind you of the speech made in 2014 by the current Vice-Marshal of the Seym, Mrs. Beata Mazurek, spokesperson for Law and Justice, who said, "Don't tell people there's no money. You just have to look for the money skillfully and find the money effectively. What another prominent representative of the Law and Justice, the candidate of this party, says today, i.e. This block of the United Right, for the president of one of the Polish cities? He says: I'm convinced that you can't give them that cash, suggesting that some parents can be degenerate. These are shocking, disgraceful words that you say to those who are the weakest - both those with disabilities and their carers. Finally, perhaps the last thing that will be the conclusion of my speech on behalf of the Members of the European Union of Democrats. Andrzej Duda - then the presidential candidate - said the following thing in the election campaign. Such a sentence said: Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame, it is a shame for the Polish state, that the Polish state not only does not care about such families, but even cheats them. Yeah, that's exactly what it is. It's a shame to your country, the PIS, because you're cheating these parents. Parents were very clear about this when they judged the bill: It is a lie and a fraud, not a response to our demands. That is why I would like to say that the Members of the European Union of Democrats will certainly not vote in favour of this project. We appeal: to come to your senses, to show compassion and elementary honesty in the approach [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the problems of parents of disabled persons and disabled persons, on behalf of whom these ladies and children protest here in the Seym. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Mr. President! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law on special solutions supporting people with a significant degree of disability. As outlined in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, people with disabilities should be given special care by the State. The wording of this principle is given by the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Constitution, according to which public authorities are required to provide special health care to children, pregnant women, disabled persons and the elderly. This amendment introduces a number of solutions for which the environment of disabled people has been waiting for years: unlimited access to medical articles, preference in queues in pharmacies, rehabilitation, as well as doctors and doctors of specialists who will no longer need referral, and finally rehabilitation services financed from the National Health Fund. These are all systemic solutions, which will provide important assistance to thousands of people with disabilities. In my view, it is equally important that these are solidarity solutions. There's no discrimination in them. They include any person with a significant degree of disability, regardless of their age. The critics refer to the lack of detailed cost calculations. Once again, they say there's no money in the budget for it. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government does not settle these declarations, I am sure that it will be properly settled by the nation, just as the government of today's total opposition has been settled in recent elections. [[Voice from the hall: Ajay...]] The system solutions presented in this amendment are waiting for hundreds of thousands of people with a significant degree of disability. The procedure should therefore be carried out as soon as possible. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u156	Thank you, Member. Let's move on to the questions at this point. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. As a result, I'm closing... [[Voice from the room: Member...]] I'm sorry, but the monitor's covered this part of the room for me. Therefore, please add yourself to the list. We begin with Mr Michael Szczerby, the Civic Platform. One and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The case we're talking about today is extremely serious. It is only a pity that we are not talking in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs, because it should be Beata Szydło here, in this room, during this debate. However, today we learned that Beata Szydło has different goals. This objective is to run for the European Parliament from Małopolska. He may still be on the Danube River, but he should be here because he's taking money to participate in this kind of debate. But now let's get to the point. This debate continues therefore and this project has been reported because for 21 days brave women and men, together with their minors and adults, have been in this building, appealing and demanding a decent life. One of the mothers said, "I don't want to take away my son's right to be a citizen." This is really what this protest is about, this is what this occupation strike is all about: a decent life, a healthy life, a full life, an active, autonomous life. The social pension, which has increased and which is rising, does not fully safeguard the needs of people with disabilities. We need a rehabilitation supplement that they themselves are calling for. They know best how to use the resources they're about to get. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is not the Minister, it is not the government, but those who know their needs should decide and finance these needs accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u158	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u159	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, during the committee's night session, when we discussed vague, vague, password-based solutions contained in this project, we often heard about the amount of PLN 520. This was supposed to be savings in the domestic budgets of people with disabilities. Therefore, I have some questions for the representatives of the Ministry. First of all, why wouldn't you want to give less if it's what the disabled want? Because they don't want 520 zlotys, they want 300 zlotys today. Secondly, since there will be savings in domestic budgets and the scope of benefits will increase - although I know a different definition of savings - someone will have to pay for it. These funds aren't budget-protected because it's not in the justification for the bill, so who? Is it not by chance that other people who, for health reasons, will need such benefits, but unfortunately will not have disability decisions? Since there is no funds available for limited benefits at the NFZ today, where will the funds for unlimited benefits come from? And one more question: What extent of use of these unlimited benefits are we talking about? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And how did you make those calculations if they're unlimited? [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u160	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, is the proposed project in print 2479 a good project? Yes, in general, this project is good, and this project has nothing to do with protests, I'm sure of it. Moreover, I am convinced that the Minister also knows that. We have worked together for many years in the Social Policy Committee and I value you for both knowledge and empathy. Someone who has ever dealt with a disabled person knows that if we respond to this protest this project, it's for them, I don't know if it's more sad or sad or just cynical. Why? It's not a bad project, Minister, it could be an addition. For a simple reason: if I read your program, a program that talks about the inalienable dignity of every human being, if I read the constitution... Minister! You understand that, don't you? If the protester up there gets 327 pampers, does that improve his dignity? Comfort of life, yes, but is it dignity? If he gets 97 catheters, are you convinced, Minister, that it improves the dignity of this person's life? [[Applause]] No. It makes you feel better. Minister! I know you've been working with people with disabilities. Have you ever pushed a cart with a person who weighs 90 kg? Yes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why my mom has an electric cart today. That is why Mrs Bernadette Krynick speaks so calmly...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u162	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u163	Unfortunately, she speaks so freely because she will always be able to afford to finance her child. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u164	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law on the support of people with a significant degree of disability is very much needed, but the proposed project is a mockery of the people who are waiting for this law. Your next project is written on your knees, without any consultation, and is contrary to the constitution. And note, as important as the support of people with disabilities you have included in only five articles. These are five articles containing really wishful thinking completely separated from the Polish realities of the functioning of health care. Without identifying the sources of funding, without any specifics, total fiction. So I have a question for you. Please tell us how this law will actually work in July of this year. Why don't you take these people seriously? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm reviewing this bill, and I'm wondering what it's supposed to do for the right reasons. 'Cause now it's like this: in art. 1 We are only talking about people with a judgment of a significant degree of disability. I mean, I understand that people who have a slight degree of disability or a moderate degree of disability - often a lower degree of disability is a consequence of long rehabilitation and involvement of parents - already all the privileges that you are talking about will not get. Now move on. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 states: "Includes the proper availability of adequate benefits.' Am I to understand that these benefits are not properly provided today? A sentence at all, like... I don't really understand what's going on here. Next question. You write that you have the right to benefit from benefits outside the order. The Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities already gives such a privilege, so why enter it, enter such provisions in this Act? Finally, I wonder... If we do not give extra money from the budget for benefits - e.g. for funding without the limit of carts or hearing aids, or other necessary materials for normal everyday life for disabled people - I wonder who will get less. This money is a certain amount, [[♪ The bell ♪]] No more, no less, just a certain amount, so for someone to get more, someone else must get less. Question: "Who gets less?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The care provision is PLN 1477, the special welfare allowance - PLN 520, the EWK benefit paid by the Social Insurance Institution is differentiated and often does not reach PLN 1000. Persons who receive these various benefits take care of persons with disabilities. In accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 21 October 2014, legislative action should be taken to restore equal treatment for carers of adults with disabilities. In 2015, the Civic Platform prepared a bill to balance these benefits and secured over PLN 657 million in the budget for this purpose. My questions: What did the PiS government do with the money? Who received it? Why doesn't he submit a law on equalisation of these benefits? I understand that there is a team working on a comprehensive system of case law, as the Minister said earlier, but it's been almost two and a half years, and the needs are here and now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u170	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! At my place, as always, will be brief, meaningful, without populism. [[You're great.]] Dear Marshal! As of 3 March 2018, the Council adopted Regulation The Ministry of Health has increased limits on the release of absorption agents, i.e. absorption agents - these are e.g. diapers - from 60 to 90 pieces per month. The need to increase the quantitative limits to at least 90 units per month with the existing price limits has been necessary for a long time. However, the problem is still the refund of the National Health Fund for this purchase, which is 77 PLN for oncology patients and 63 PLN for other patients. For example, the amount of NFZ refund was PLN 63 with a limit of 60 units of absorption agents and the patient paid PLN 51. Now, with the limit of 90 units of absorption agents, the NFZ continues to refund 63 PLN, while on the patient's side the amount of 108 PLN remains. The question is, and I would very much ask for an answer: If the quantitative limit of absorption agents, i.e. diapers, is increased, will the NFZ refund again be 77 PLN for oncology patients and 63 PLN for other patients requiring diapers, including especially those with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u173	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I ask the first question at the request of the guardian of an adult with disabilities. Here it is: And, if so, since when, do you provide compensation for all carers of disabled persons for the retirement benefit for the care of a disabled person up to the amount of the care provision of PLN 1477? The second question concerns the proposed law. You talk very often about the fact that you want to give 520 PLN. Hence my question: How and who will calculate that a person with disabilities has used 520 PLN? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u175	Yesterday at the committee meeting, I shared my observations and concerns. I am very concerned about what it will be like in practice to abolish rehabilitation limits for people with a significant degree of disability. Minister, there are about 950 thousand of these people. It's very loud from the government that there's gonna be rehab without a queue. But, Minister, the entire rehabilitation system is based on queues. These are usually planned actions and cannot be done to tens of thousands - I do not say that hundreds of thousands, and yet there are so many - clearly and simply in zero time, so that there are no queues and there are no limits. First of all, you need to take someone's seat in this line, push them out of existing medical queues. Secondly, I firmly believe that the parents of disabled people who protested in the Polish Parliament were absolutely not meant to do something at the expense of other citizens. Thirdly, even if you were to direct huge funds, money for this project, which we do not know anything about, it is still that money, even large, as I mentioned, with such a large group of people in need of rehabilitation, will not solve the queues and will not solve the problems of those urgently in need of rehabilitation. Because who and what do you want to perform this rehabilitation? I would also like to say clearly from this place that I am with all my heart with the help of [[♪ The bell ♪]] people with disabilities and that they should be rehabilitated without a limit, only I have serious concerns about making this entry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u176	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u177	He is in practice very little feasible, because it is not possible at zero...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u178	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u179	...creating extra places, beds. You're not gonna train new rehabilitators.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u180	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u181	You don't have any money. I understand this project is just supposed to look nice on paper and sound nice propaganda. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u182	Thank you very much and very much follow the time discipline. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a shame you don't have a minister. Ladies and gentlemen! This project, which you have presented, is completely unnecessary, because the articles you contain in this project already exist, are in the Charter. The rights of persons with disabilities and are in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This already exists many, many years, but it is simply unobserved, so creating another document that speaks exactly the same is completely pointless. Minister Rafalska asked such a question: How to get out of this mat? You can get out of this mat in a very simple way. The simplest solutions are the best. I'll give you three really simple ones. The first is the proposal of disabled adults who have been protesting here for 21 days, who are talking about throwing these 500 zlotys into social pensions, then it will cover the 280 thousand. persons. This will cost less than 2 billion. That's one solution. Second solution: 500+. Why should 500+ be given to those who are doing their best? For example, we here, who charge 500+ for our children. Savings: 4,5 billions. It would also be possible to invest money for certain things on the occasion of the century of regaining independence in the environment of people with disabilities, which has been neglected for twenty-six years. Minister! If you can hear me, please listen. You were talking about temperament. Please, ma'am. Sometimes there are times when you have to risk it and oppose those who don't want to help you. Please have the courage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to oppose the rulers, Moravian, and find that money for the disabled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u185	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! Today, one father of a disabled child wrote to me to ask you, the creators of the bill, which means immediate access to rehabilitation without limits, because he, in order to get to rehabilitation, must travel 130 km, because public rehabilitation is not possible near his place of residence. Hence the question: What is the access grid to rehabilitation if it is to be immediate access? Will the introduction of this bill suddenly make these doctors more specialists? Will it make you more rehabilitates? I would also ask for detailed calculations concerning this draft law, i.e. on the one hand, we have very concrete proposals that come out of the environment of people with disabilities, including those who are protesting here today, on the other hand, I am afraid that we have quite an apparent document that should actually be implemented long ago - that is, access to both funds and benefits - but it is only on paper, as is the document 'For life', which you have praised in your time, is also not implemented because of the lack of resources, the lack of opportunities and, in fact, the lack of doctors or benefits that are needed for this. Hence my question: What is your idea of solving the situation that is here too, will you finally listen to people with disabilities and their carers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u186	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. [[Oh, the star.]] [[The star goes, with empathy on his face.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u187	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the abolition of persons with a judgment of considerable disability of periods of use and restrictions on the number of medical devices, the provision of medical services and pharmaceutical services by them, the possibility of their rehabilitation in an unlimited manner in institutions which they choose, and the use of specialist services without the need to obtain referral will allow them to save their carers 200 PLN, 300 PLN, 500 PLN or 1200 PLN? I will quote the words said some time ago: Today the social pension is PLN 644 net. This amount is meant to be enough for an adult disabled person to survive a whole month. This is impossible because the hour of rehabilitation costs 100 PLN. Can you guess who said that? One of the mothers protesting in the Seym. Isn't this lady gonna save money to rehabilitate her kid after this project? And a request to Mrs Niedziela. Madame, weigh your words. Most people with disabilities do not wish to be called their children. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, do not distort my speech. I don't make people with disabilities go to work. I'm talking about opportunities for social inclusion and rehabilitation. Parents should prepare their disabled children to enjoy life in society as much as possible in order to activate them socially, professionally and not in four walls. The truth is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not all will find themselves in the open labour market, but for some the most convenient form will be social and professional integration in the form of workshops for occupational therapy, environmental help homes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u188	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u189	Mr Protasiewicz...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u190	Member, it's time to stop.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u191	...disabled persons held in the Sejm are at risk of loss of physical, mental health and there will certainly be far-reaching health effects that we will not know about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u192	Thank you very much. Please keep an eye on the time limit. There you go, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u193	Ladies and gentlemen! Parents of Disabled Children! Those who protest in the Seym! Hold on, hold on, and don't let anyone tell you that this project is solving the problem you're talking about. This project is next door. And you're telling the government there's 1 billion more in the National Health Fund. There isn't. We haven't seen it. These are the same promises as yesterday. The Commission has been working since yesterday. 21 a.m. 1 a.m., but we didn't get those answers. This project should be accompanied by a proposal to amend the National Health Fund's financial plan to know that no one in line is going to take this place away, that you are going to use this money as a whole for the purpose of rehabilitation. This is what parents of disabled people expect. They expect to compensate their pensions from various titles for adult care. So? And this bill is the famous PiS act about diapers, because that's all you're talking about. You don't talk about dignity, you don't talk about those people being worth supporting. You used them in the election campaign, you're using them today. The mountain had a mouse. The nappies will be the banner of this project. It's a shame. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I would like to point out to Minister Rafalska that all pensions in the Social Security Office are from the state budget, not from the fact that there is more money, that there is more paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u195	It is worth remembering and not confusing the concepts of the speaker, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u196	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The simple question is: Why do you not really want to meet the demands of protesting mothers, fathers? 21 days are waiting for concrete solutions, not the cheap propaganda and slides you're showing. In fact, this bill we're talking about is eye soap. This is a similar bill to the one we have just heard about, about dentobuses, which will drive and fix Polish children's teeth. And what about the dentobuses? They're broken, nobody wants to take care of it. You say there's no money. Minister, let's find it. Let's start with the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you: Minister Rafalska has received over 70,000. zł bonus. It's not like anybody wants to pay back those bonuses. Let's keep looking. There is no money for mothers, there is no money for children, but very quickly there was 1 billion PLN for non-public activities, only PiS TV. Let's keep looking. Polish National Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, this foundation is really embarrassing us and our country for the last time. If the 250 million transferred by the Treasury companies were to be used to help these children, I think we would all have no such problems. What did you really propose? The most expensive cruise around the world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, Minister, I will ask if anyone will apologize for those scandalous words made by the PiS Members in relation to those who protest in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u198	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Boris-Raccoon, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Mr President, if you were so thorough, we would not have this problem today. If you could count that money for eight years, find that money, that wouldn't be the problem today. [[Applause]] [[3 years - a billion on TV, bonuses for yours.]] [[Where's the money from the 2016 budget?]] [[Nappy-nappy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u200	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u201	I have a question for the applicant, i.e. Minister Joanna Kopcińska, who is here on behalf of the applicants, whether it is true that so far, money has been spent from the budgets of home caretakers of people with disabilities. for rehabilitation benefits, also in commercial offices. After the introduction of this law, did these costs, i.e. 500 PLN or more, will cover the National Health Fund and in fact this money will remain in the portfolios of families with disabilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u202	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask why the government wants to decide for people with disabilities what healthcare services these people should benefit from. These people and their carers know exactly what they are to use and what they should not use. They don't need to be imposed on them. Why does the government refuse financial assistance by offering in return what is due to all Poles, what should be the standard, which is no special solution or help? In-kind aid should not replace financial assistance. When will the government fulfill the pre-election promises of the PiS, very loudly presented, and grant declared allowances for people with disabilities? They don't ask for much. They're willing to accept even lower amounts. How much longer will the government be passively looking at the enormous determination of people with disabilities and their guardians in the fight for a decent life? It's their basic right, and the government has a duty to do it. I'd like to ask you about the budget. After all, we hear everywhere: the budget is well implemented, that today there is a budget surplus. There's money for various expenses, and for the weakest, the most deprived, there's no money. What's the truth? What's it like and why? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u204	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If this project had been submitted for trial immediately after the rule of law and justice had been taken into account as the first step in fulfilling the declarations made out loud in the election campaign, it would indeed have meant your genuine concern for people with disabilities, whom you had made further, empty, as it turned out, electoral promises. Today, you are directly showing the next group of people, this time to the group most in need of our support, needing on the one hand delicateness, and on the other hand concrete solutions, that you are not really interested in what they have to say. By your custom, as always, you say that you know best what is best for them to live, that you know best what they need in their everyday life. Hence my two simple questions: Which of the demands of people with disabilities protesting in the Seym has been fulfilled for 21 days or will be implemented by this law? And the second question is, did the protesters' representatives in the Sejm take part in last night's discussions of the family and social affairs committee, and if not, why weren't they there? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u206	Thank you, Member. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u207	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, the debate on this point cannot be held without emotion, because we know that it is in the Parliament building that the most needy people are protesting. My question isn't perverse, it's due to a certain misunderstanding of the situation. When implementing the programmes that have been announced so far, 500+, 300+, you often say that it is your parents who know best what to spend the money on, what to spend it on. My question is: Why do you not want to apply the same maxim to people with disabilities? After all, their disabilities are very diverse. Some actually need physical rehabilitation, others - maybe a psychologist, others - speech therapy. Someone would like to have a computer program, and somebody else would want regular pampers, or maybe everything together. Therefore, putting everyone in one bag and some rehabilitation offer enigmatically calculated at 520 PLN really seems a false proposition. It seems to me that it is still possible to change that this offer in cash, as the protesters wish, will be most honest that not only the opposition's parliamentarians expect this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but - I have an impression - also Poles throughout the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u208	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u209	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm very sorry that the Minister is no longer with us because I wanted to return... [[There it is.]] Oh, excuse me, Minister. I'm so glad you're back because I just wanted to say that I'm sorry that we're missing out on what we're saying. I feel like we're using the same words to describe different situations. This is unfortunately very sad, because we are talking about people who are here in the Seym who are protesting, who are demanding their rights. We're talking about the same thing, like the same words, and yet it turns out that the situations we're referring to are different. I would like to draw your attention to what the Minister is saying in relation to the Life and Availability+ programmes. It's all on paper. Grown-up kids only have pensions and benefits. Many of these children do not have access to institutions due to their disability. What will happen to these children, Minister? What about the implementation of the provisions of the Life Programme? Parents write petitions to the petition committee, but also make them available in electronic form. I will read quickly: I am fighting for small environmental homes of self-help for adults with autism, coupled and intellectual disability so that people like us can simply survive. Let us give people with disabilities a chance to live a decent, as independent as possible life. They need to continue therapy, they need to survive when they run out of loved ones. What does the government do for these kids? We're waiting for an answer to the dissertation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I ask you to consider this answer in the context of what we have in the Seym and this protest. Really, all these solutions are needed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u210	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Rafalska referred to the income limit granted to 500+ for families with children with disabilities: for the first child - 1200 PLN, for other families or children - 800 PLN. Indeed, Minister, that is a big distinction. Let me remind you that you were the first critics of the income criterion when we were just talking about 500+. It was the modern one that pointed to austerity in the budget, but above all to the priorities of those who should be dealt with by the responsible democratic state. It was then that the modern Members said: How can we give 500+ to families in which income is over 2500 PLN net per person, when the needs of children with disabilities, pensioners or teachers, whose profession is increasingly disappointing each year, are waiting for increases. At the meeting of the Social Policy Committee, even before the long May weekend, the minister reported how small these savings would be in the 500+ programme, but he accepted - I do not know if it was deliberate manipulation - 5,000. PLN per person in the family. Where your logic in distribution - that's my question - because at 500+ you said that the state should not interfere with what this money will be spent on, and yet with healthy children we can say exactly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think it could be dental care, it could be funding sports activities or textbooks?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u212	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u213	Did you really go so far as to be a judge about families with children, with people with disabilities, to know exactly what their needs are? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u215	Thank you, Marshal, for your voice. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Referring to the justification of this law, the purpose of which is to regulate, to define specific rights in access to healthcare services, pharmaceutical services and medical devices of persons having a judgment of a significant degree of disability, I will ask again. The debate that is currently taking place in the plenary room is actually repeated several times the same: Why do you not allow people with disabilities to be decided about the needs of these people or their carers? Is this an attempt to use such a smokescreen that we want to give you something, but we're just doing it alternately? There's no room for substitutes. This is about specific aid. Parents or people with disabilities want to decide how to spend their money. Whether such rehab more or not, or tournaments like this or that. Ladies and gentlemen! When you made a decision about 500+, I remember the Minister clearly stated: parents know exactly what to spend this money on, so there will be no in-kind aid. What is the difference between the parents of disabled people or the disabled themselves and the parents who get 500+? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u216	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Listening to the statements of the Members of the opposition in this really difficult situation, I am amazed because, as they ruled, they really, in my opinion, did nothing for the disabled. [[It was the Prime Minister who did the job, unlike yours.]] They could have done it if they had sealed it. VAT, VAT receipts. The sea of money was flowing because of you. [[It's sealed.]] Thanks to you guys, it was coming out. Why didn't you? Why didn't you? [[This has to be done when it's sealed. Then why don't you?]] Because we give, for example. 500+. [[Oh, so there isn't.]] And you didn't. I mean, among other things.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u218	I ask you to remain calm, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u219	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you again... [[So they won't.]] Some say that this law divides the disabled - diapers are here very... on the banners of the state put it - on those who need diapers, and on those who do not need diapers, on those who need wheelchairs, and on those who do not need wheelchairs. I wanted to ask the Minister how it really is with this division. Does this law really divide the disabled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u220	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to ask a few questions directly related to the provisions of the Act, or perhaps a bit beyond those provisions. Firstly, I would like to ask, because priority in accessing public-funded medical professionals and services is already enshrined in the 2012 Act introducing the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Polish legal order, does this project simply not duplicate solutions that already exist in Polish law? Second question. Does this law limit the scope of benefits exclusively to services financed by public funds, and hence from the NFZ, and omits the very high quality, very good rehabilitation services provided by commercial entities that do not have a contract with the NFZ? Third question, very important. Why, for what reasons is this law limited only to persons with a significant degree of disability, which means exclusion of persons, children of minors up to the age of 18, because in the case of such persons such a degree of disability is not defined, is not defined? The last thing connected with the intervention I received from Mrs.Beata of Jankov Przygodki, who, despite her first disability group, tries to live her own life as a lawyer, works at home, and because of her income, her pension benefit has been revoked. As a result of this, Mrs. Beata is deprived of the possibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to benefit from effective rehabilitation, e.g. For the replacement of the wheelchair on which she sits, she had to return her own money to the ZUS 5,000. zł, because it was co-financed by the company in which he works.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u222	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u223	Should such absurdities not be excluded in the first place?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. [[No, no...]] Excuse me, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u225	It's okay, Marshal, it's okay. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! This law, the law on detailed solutions to support people with a significant degree of disability, is a step in the right direction and I think that if we reject this emotional blurring of some Members of the opposition, we will all come to the conclusion that this is a step in the right direction, perhaps this is one of the first steps that will have to be taken to ensure that the demands of people with disabilities are met. Both benefits in kind and the right to benefit from health care benefits, rehabilitation benefits, will indeed support these families and provide real help. I have the following question, at this point the first: Have they been valued, so really, benefits that will support these families? We are aware that they are in very different situations, that not every young person with disabilities will receive the same assistance, so can we at this point clearly determine the average amount of money for each family? Second question, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've been approached by people who are worried about me. such a vision that they will be unlimited, consecutive rehabilitation benefits. Doesn't it threaten to extend the queues for other people who, for example, They're after accidents and they need to be rehabilitated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I think that when we are all here in the Chamber, we will agree that if state aid is needed somewhere, especially in the case of people with significant disability from birth. These people, more than anyone, are doomed to benefit from the assistance of third parties - countries, families, sometimes strangers who allocate 1% your tax to help them get money, e.g. for rehab. I've been saying for a long time that this government like no other has a problem with putting up, choosing priorities. Minister, here's a question for you. Do you really think that the priority: the expedition, the latest promise of the PiS government, is, should be more important than just helping people with disabilities from birth with a significant degree of disability? Why do I ask? Maybe it's a case of Poles against each other, but the cost of both cases is actually similar: 1.5 billion is the cost of expeditions estimated by Mr Morawiecki, and 1.6 billion is the cost of precisely what people with disabilities are fighting for in the Sejm - 500 PLN per life for people with disabilities since birth, which not by their own laziness, not by choice, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] for random reasons are excluded from the labour market and sentenced to life with the help of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u229	...third parties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will repeat once again - because this debate about the disabled, their carers, their parents triggers emotions, as you can see in the sitting room and not only - let me remind you that we did not destroy this support system... [[Who trashed it?]] ...it wasn't us who differentiated support for parents and guardians of disabled children... [[3 years, 3 years.]] ...and support, Mr Rutnicki, parents and carers of adults with disabilities. It was you and your party who did it when you were in charge. Should we apologize, Mr Rutnicki, for such words: Parents use their disabled children to fight politically? What do you think? Should we apologize for those words? Go ahead. [[Here's to the bill. It's a rule.]] No, for those words. This was said by a fellow Member, Stefan Niesiołowski, when parents with disabilities protested in the Sejm, and with such a ridiculous smile protested them. [[Member presents the photo on the tablet]] These are facts. [[Take a look at Mrs Krynicka.]] I agree with Mr Rutnicki that such shameful words should be apologized for. I think Mr Rutnicki will encourage his colleague to do so. [[A coalitioner?]] Minister! I have a question. What group of people - disabled, carers - will benefit from the solutions proposed in the bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what will be the burden on the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u232	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the 520 zlotys that people with disabilities are about to get under this law. Well, it seems to me that this is some horrible manipulation, because they have access to various health services and various goods, so to speak, free of charge, but the National Health Fund has no increased budget at all. It is simply those disabled after 18 years of age or those who have acquired it, who do not have these rights, who enter into a queue that already exists. The current Health Services Act provides for free benefits, whether for pregnant women or for disabled women from birth or for veterans. Now, in the same queue, he adds to those who have not had these rights so far, i.e. disabled, regardless of their age. They are put into this queue, but no funds are increased, no money, i.e. all of them - pregnant women, disabled people and others - will therefore receive less of these benefits, because the same fund remains, the same budget of the National Health Fund, nor is it increased by a zloty. Doesn't it look like some horrible manipulation, primitive manipulation that you give these people 520 zlotys in nature? Minister! I'm asking you to explain this because it's quite unpleasant, so to speak, the propaganda of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u234	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members of the total opposition, from the Modern and Civic Platform to the PSL, faithful to them as always, often invoke the protest of parents and guardians of disabled persons in the 2014 Sejm. Is it true that if the PO and PSL government met the protesters' demands at that time, today we would be at a higher stage in terms of ensuring a decent life for people with disabilities? After 2 years of rule of law and justice, when spending on disabled people increased by PLN 3 billion in the budget, the same protestors came to the Sejm with protests, asking the government for help. As they said, they lack diapers, rehabilitation, catheters and rehabilitation carts. We remember what the protesters asked, after all, this protest actually started less than a month ago, 20 days ago, and the press was writing down. [[21.]] I have a question for you, Minister. What is the reason why protesters reject solutions proposed by the government regarding their original demands? Which was the reason that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has the amount of government aid expected by protesters changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u236	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Kopcinska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all those who have pointed out that the bill is a step in the right direction. It is a project that has been widely consulted with the environment of people with disabilities. We listen to the voice of people, especially with a significant degree of disability, and we hear this voice. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words of explanation in answer to the questions that have been raised in this Chamber. The Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Madam President, states that disabled persons have the right, inter alia, to do so. to have access to comprehensive rehabilitation, have the right to access to goods enabling them to participate fully in society, have the right to access medical treatment and care, diagnostics, medical rehabilitation, but it is also written that the Sejm calls on the government of the Republic of Poland and the local authorities to take measures aimed at the implementation of these rights. Until now, there has been a provision for calling for these rights to be fulfilled. The project we are discussing today is the real realization of the rights of patients, adults with a significant degree of disability, and we are actually talking about people from 16 years of age, because it is them who are given judgments. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to reassure you on the financing of this project. The National Health Fund's financial plan will be revised by the end of May. As an example I gave at yesterday's committee meeting - I will repeat it today - that only in the first quarter of this year. we have a surplus of more than PLN 100 million due to higher than the planned revenue of the National Health Fund from the health contribution. This is only 3 months and over 100 million PLN. [[That's 500 zlotys each.]] To be able from July 1st real start helping adults with a significant degree of disability, we will change the financial plan of the NFZ for this year, so that already more than 400 million more, more than 450 million PLN, is allocated to abolishing restrictions, to unlimited rehabilitation procedures. You ask where we will find the persons who will perform these benefits. [[Of course.]] You are asking whether in the localities where only commercial services have been so far, they will be able to be provided. Yeah, because where there's funding, there's entities that do these services. And I'm not saying it without covering it. Such solutions are used in oncology, such solutions have been applied in interventional cardiology. Consider what happened at the time. There were operators on the market who fully met the needs of the market, the needs of patients who needed and were waiting for this assistance. This will also happen in this case. Give it time and evaluate it, but let's not lose half a year, because since July we can really help. Everyone in this room is talking about help, tolerance, empathy. All I'm asking for is a chance to show you the next way in this project, separate the path for those who are now standing in the general queues. They're standing now, but they're gonna release seats in these general queues because they're gonna follow a separate, separate path, which they haven't been. In the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities there was a record that they should have, and there was an appeal for realization. That's what we're doing. And accessibility for people with disabilities is only enshrined in one legal act: the Publicly funded health care law. And it is in this law that we change the records, just so that the limits are lifted, i.e. without limitation rehabilitation, because it is not the guardian, not the parent of the disabled person who decides what this person needs, but the doctor. The institutions that will perform the rehabilitation without restrictions will have paid for it by the payer, who is the National Health Fund, not by the parent who has so far sought help in commercial facilities. As far as commercial facilities that provide services are concerned, I will say colloquially: the system with additional resources emerging will draw them into the public health system. And that's what this is all about, not spending money on domestic budgets, so that the money stays there, so that it's not spent on rehabilitation, because according to the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 This is to be ensured by the Polish state. And we're doing it. [[Applause]] I'm counting, because you know this project is good... Of course, I agree with the speakers that he does not solve all the problems, because he does not have the task of solving all the problems. The problems of people with disabilities can only be solved in one way: systemic changes. What we're proposing... I'm not gonna bid on who did what and did what before... [[Less for the national foundation, more for the children.]] ...what he didn't do. We want to make these changes in a systematic way, and I would like to ask you one more thing: that we make these changes together, because disability... [[The liquidation of the national foundation.]] ...there are no political colors and we have a chance to show that we are with those who need this help most. This year we will make changes to the financial plan, next year new entries will appear. You'll settle us after a while, when we assess how smooth this is. I don't want to go back, I don't want to get divorced about the almost proverbial or perhaps not proverbial, but the flagship diapers that have become a sort of flagship example of this project, but these articles, please, these medical devices we're talking about, are about 130, and let's not underestimate that, because someone can ridicule diapers, but these 130 articles, including these diapers, are articles, medical devices that are necessary and necessary for a large number of people with disabilities for everyday life. We also want to ensure that, when it comes to this 91st diaper, which today a parent or guardian of a disabled person has to buy so that it is us, that the Polish state participates in this so that we are bureaucratic - sorry, Mr President - the National Health Fund, not the parent or guardian of the disabled person. These mattresses, catheters, lenses, bullets - these are all the needs of people with disabilities. We can't fix everything right away. But I ask you very much that we give the most needy a chance and take a step together to defeat these proverbial seven stairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Janusz Cieszyński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u239	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! This is in the opinion of the Minister of Health a very good project, because this is a project that allows us to finance from the National Health Fund an unlimited number of benefits that are needed for people with a significant degree of disability. This makes the project extremely democratic, because it gives everyone exactly what they need. We give without limit everything that such a person needs, and we are talking about four benefits that will result in people with a significant degree of disability through this project. First of all, it's unlimited access to medical devices. Secondly, it is unlimited access to rehabilitation services. Thirdly, we eliminate the obligation for people with a significant degree of disability to apply to professionals. Fourthly, we give these people the opportunity to benefit from these benefits without a queue. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you why this is possible, because this question has been asked many times. It seems that this is the responsibility of the Minister of Health that the Minister of Health did not explain all this to you yesterday in committee. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible that thanks to the excellent economic situation, thanks to the reforms in the Social Insurance Institution, thanks to the reforms that Minister Rafalska is introducing in terms of increasing the number of people having employment contracts, we simply have more resources thanks to better collection of contributions. When we plan the National Health Fund's financial plan, we are guided by some conservativeism, because we know that here we are responsible for financing health care services for Poles. After a few months, however, we know that the forecasts are very good. Thus, by the end of May, President Jacin will submit to the Parliament for consideration, for consideration by the Committee on Health and Finance, a modified financial plan of the National Health Fund, which will take into account the funding of these elements of the project that is being discussed today. Yesterday, there was also a question of why the justification for the project was not indicated by the state budget. As we do not reach for money from the state budget, we do not reach the deficit, we do not increase debt, we do not increase contributions or increase burdens. We use resources that, according to forecasts, as we already see after the results of the National Health Fund, will simply enter the fund. And I would like to make it very, very clear that we're all going this way. And more resources, ladies and gentlemen, this is a condition that must be met so that this project does not divide Poles. The questions raised here were whether this would cause some to wait longer in queues, that people who are not disabled would be shifted, waiting longer for benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, no. More funds are additional benefits, additional benefits, also provided by new healthcare providers, who are currently not connected at all with the National Health Fund. There is also, ladies and gentlemen, such a very important issue, although perhaps not well discussed here so far, namely that this project will give these centres a chance to be created also in smaller centres, where they are not present, where they are particularly needed. I'm asking you to look around on a scale, these forecasts that we have now, these forecasts that are presented by the National Health Fund in terms of rehabilitation, that's an increase in rehabilitation spending by 1/3. This is a very high growth and in our opinion this will satisfy the needs of all people with a significant degree of disability in access to these benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said at the outset, this is a good project, but this is a partial project that shows these elements that we can offer to people with a significant degree of disability within the health system. This is only part of what we're planning to offer these people. This, on the other hand, is the part over which supervision... which lies within the competence of the Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen! There's one more thing I'd like to say. Yesterday, the committee sat very late. There were many words spoken, many questions asked. It seems that we have managed to answer them. It is significant, however, that at the committee's meeting against this project, none of its members voted against it. Nobody said it was a project that shouldn't be adopted. On behalf of the Minister of Health, I would like to say that we think this is a very good project. I congratulate the applicants, in particular Minister Kopcińska. On behalf of the Minister of Health, I request support for the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u240	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Ursula Rusecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to thank you very much for the work that we have done, all the members of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family, also for the criticisms, but first of all I would like to thank the government, Minister Joanna Kopcińska, Minister Rafalska, Minister of Health, Mr Agent Michalkiewicz and all of you for the step you have taken. This is another step that makes the situation of people with disabilities even slightly better. We are all aware that this situation is difficult. We have found this situation as a government of law and justice and we are trying to fix it systematically, consistently. We want the lives of people with disabilities in our country, in Poland, to be worthy. We refer to these people with great respect and appreciation, and I hope that the next steps of the government will find an understanding of the High House and that they will be such actions as will be able to improve this situation. Once again, I would like to thank you for all the actions that the Law and Justice Government has done so far for people with disabilities, for 500+ for children with disabilities, for the Lifetime Programme, for many, many other actions that are aimed at improving this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u242	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on the processing of Passenger Name Record data (Prints No 2461 and 2481). I would very much like to ask Mr Bartosz Józwiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the processing of Passenger Name Record data, print No 2461. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 20 April 2018. The law in question lays down the rules and conditions for air carriers to transmit Passenger Name Record data and to process such data in order to detect and combat terrorist offences and other criminal offences or tax offences and to prevent and prosecute the perpetrators thereof, and identifies the persons responsible in these cases. The draft Passenger Name Record Processing Act aims to implement Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data for the purpose of preventing terrorist offences and, as I mentioned, others, including fiscal offences. The Directive lays down rules for air carriers to transmit Passenger Name Record Data, the processing of such data by Member States of the European Union and the exchange of such data between Member States in order to prevent such offences. For the purposes of the proposed act, PNR data are Passenger Name Record data, including personal data that are processed in connection with the conduct of business by air carriers for the purpose of booking or flight execution in the course of air transport, subject to transfer by the air carrier to the JIP. The above definition also refers to data already collected by air carriers in connection with their business activities. The categories of PNR data that can be processed on the basis of the proposed law are set out mainly in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1. This provision contains the PNR data catalogue entered by air carriers and specifies the data to be transmitted. It is a closed catalogue. The scope of the project shall take into account the purpose of the processing of data set out in the Directive, namely the prevention of identified offences. The draft law shall also specify the entities that will be competent in matters relating to the processing of PNR data. The wording used in the draft law for the relevant entities covers all entities that will be involved in the processing of PNR data and, therefore, in the scope of the project, account shall be taken of the fact that not only the competent authorities but also the National Passenger Information Unit, Europol, the competent authorities and passenger information units in other Member States as well as the authorities of third countries are authorised to process the data. It is worth pointing out that the rules in force today do not regulate matters concerning the processing of PNR data in order to combat crime. The current legal situation only regulates the transmission by air carriers, at the request of the competent Border Guard Service Commandant, of information on passengers on board the aircraft. The Act also contains a detailed list of conditions which must be met each time and comprehensively by countries wishing to receive such data or to have access to such data. Implementation of the provisions of the Directive in the Polish legal order requires, first of all, the obligation for air carriers to transfer PNR data. The Directive sets out the obligation for air carriers to provide these data which relate to non-EU passengers, but at the same time, in accordance with the Directive, a Member State may decide to apply the provisions of the Directive also to intra-EU flights, as is the case with Poland. Our law also decided to include intra-EU flights, as in most EU countries, in those which have already implemented this directive, i.e. in three countries, and those which are considering it for the time being. The proposed law also requires air carriers to inform each passenger about the collection and transfer of PNR data to the system and their right to protect their personal data. 163 legislative amendments were tabled during the committee's work. Several substantive amendments were made alongside this. In fact, most of these amendments were adopted, with the exception of one amendment clarifying one of the provisions concerning the conditions fulfilled by the EU countries which are to have access to this information. There was also a request for a subcommittee. This proposal has also not been accepted by a majority of committee members. The Commission adopted the Act in the absence of votes against and with three abstentions. In conclusion, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 7 May 2018, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u244	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Filipiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the law and justice club, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law on the processing of Passenger Name Record data. This is print number 2461. The draft Passenger Name Record Processing Act aims at transposing Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016. The Act sets out the terms and conditions for air carriers to transmit and process Passenger Name Records in order to prevent, detect and prosecute terrorist offences and other criminal offences or tax offences and to prosecute the perpetrators of such offences. The Directive sets out the obligation for air carriers to provide PNR data relating to non-EU passengers. At the same time, in accordance with the Directive, a Member State may decide to apply the provisions of the Directive also to intra-EU flights. The projector, our government has benefited from the possibility of applying the proposed law also to flights between Member States. The use of PNR data processing procedures also for intra-EU flights is necessary to ensure the security of the State. Terrorist threats are increasingly diagnosed within the European Union as a result of the movement between EU Member States of persons presenting a specific risk. PNR data collected on intra-EU flights have the same value in the context of countering terrorist threats and other crime as PNR data collected on non-EU flights. The draft law provides that air carriers will be required to transmit PNR data before each scheduled flight, as well as to provide for different situations related to the departure of passengers on board the aircraft. The Directive also requires that each Member State establish or designate a competent authority to act as a passenger information unit, so-called. JIP. The draft law provides that this role will be entrusted to the Border Guard. The Head of the Border Guard will be responsible for the establishment, operation and operation of the National PNR Information System. The proposed law also regulates the rules for the processing, storage, depersonalisation and deletion of PNR data collected by JIPs from air carriers. The draft provides for this in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 that PNR data which may be used for the direct identification of a passenger 6 months after their collection in KSI PNR will be depersonalised by making them invisible to the data processors. The proposed law also provides for the regulation of international cooperation in the exchange of PNR data. The Directive provides that PNR data collected by the JIP may be exchanged between Member States and transferred to Europol and third countries in order to prevent, detect and detect the offences referred to therein. The draft law proposes to regulate the rules and modalities for the transmission of these data separately for each of the above mentioned. entities. The provisions of the Act provide for administrative fines to be imposed on air carriers for non-fulfilment or incorrect fulfilment of obligations under the Act. The Act is expected to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill and recommends its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u246	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the government draft bill on the processing of Passenger Name Record data. In the Passenger Name Processing Act, two important values are collided, security and privacy rights, and I will remind you that the right to privacy is one of the fundamental civil rights. The direct reason for this law is the need to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, so-called. PNR Directive. The fact that the EU institutions have been working on these amendments for 5 years is best demonstrated by the complexity of the Directive, because the first version of the Directive was made public and was already consulted in 2011. The provisions of the Directive should be implemented in the Polish law by 25 May 2018. So the Polish government had 2 years to prepare the bill. We're meeting today and we're working on this bill not even in five to twelve, but actually two weeks before that date. And I'm sure the least guilty of that is the Minister, because the Minister works in the Ministry for a few months. Such a situation should not really occur. Worse still, the way Parliamentary work on this draft law has not yet been appropriate, because in this legislative process for the Sejm it was actually foreseen for a few hours to work on it, as the first reading took place last night, and today the second reading is already taking place. And so complicated projects just can't be looked at in such a short time. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, we learned that 163 amendments had been prepared for 79 articles of the Act. The picture is that the draft law, which has 38 pages, has been amended to cover 19 pages. This is really not a good legislative standard. Unfortunately, such a procession only brings the Sejm to the role of a machine that accepts government ideas without special discussion and without a special understanding of what is in the Act, because in such a way it is not really responsible to adopt such complex draft laws that concern millions of citizens. And it seems that this chaos, which reigned during the work of the Parliament on this law, was completely unnecessary, because the deadline for implementing the directive, or 25 May, will not be respected, because the law will not be implemented by 25 May anyway. Moreover, even when the Act enters into force, air carriers who are to transmit data will still have more than 6 months to build systems and start transmitting them. So we could work quietly on this bill and resolve all the doubts. What raised the greatest doubts at the committee meeting was the extension of the scope of the directive also to intra-EU flights, because the directive, which I will remind you, was adopted in response to a terrorist threat, obliges Member States only to collect and process the data of non-EU passengers, while that Member State is to decide whether intra-EU flights will also be covered by data processing rules. Poland has decided that yes. Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, we did not get full information on why the government made such a decision, and we have therefore prepared an amendment, and we are reporting it today, in connection with the inclusion of these provisions in the law only and only in non-EU flights. What will be the consequence of this amendment? If we were to limit ourselves, as we want to do in the amendment, only to non-EU flights, we would process the data of several million people each year, in a situation where we will also cover intra-EU flights, more than 30 million people per year will be processed, some estimate even 36 million. On the one hand, this is a huge job that will have to be done by the service, but on the other hand, it is also a strong hit on the privacy of citizens, which mostly do not have any actions. Other issues were also considered at the committee meeting. Among other things, I have this impression, quite sensible proposals were presented by the SKOK National Fund, which proposed that the holders of the SKOKs' accounts should also be covered by the provisions of this Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To date, this proposal has not been accepted in the committee, which is why we are preparing such an amendment, and we will report it today. We believe that this group should also be covered by this law. I'm on my way to the end, Marshal. Minister! I was going to ask you something else, but maybe it was during the questions, because this mode of seismic work actually prevented even GIODO from considering the position of GIODO in relation to this law. The position of the General Data Protection Officer has only come to us today, actually after the substantive work of the committee. Therefore, it is difficult to refer to many things in this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartosz Józwiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, we've heard a lot about this bill, so I'm not going to repeat what its records and objectives are. Indeed, it is a law which arises as a result of the fact that we should implement the EU directive into Polish law in order to bring it into line with the requirements that today puts the reality of modern Europe before us. And it really affects a very important element, because it is another draft law that somehow extends the data collected and the range of entities to these data having access. Today, this is the second act, which at such an express rate is slightly pushed, because we also have a GDPR law, which at the last moment comes under discussion and which also affects a very sensitive thing, i.e. the protection of personal data. And if we open the gates, an increasingly large group of operators giving access to these data and to the use of these data, then security is also important. Indeed, there is a very subtle game here between how much we need to expand our security and how much we can limit it and allow it to enter our privacy. And it's hard not to agree with a few arguments that have already been made here. The first thing is the speed of legislation. We actually got this very serious bill yesterday. The tempo was imposed so that it was impossible to establish a subcommittee, so we could not actually have a very broad discussion on this law. Indeed, it is only today that there is an opinion on this matter, the opinion of GIODO, so it is really nothing to do with what we were investigating at the committee meeting yesterday because we did not have the full data. It seems that this is a very bad way of proceding or lawmaking in Poland, because on the one hand, we are being punished as Members by the reductions of labour, but with such a style of work, when adding laws, we should probably get some awards, that we should take responsibility, that we are getting acquainted at such a rapid pace with serious laws that relate to things that are very important for Polish society. Ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't seem to be right to do this, because we're about to... This is already pointed out by the very example of this law, ladies and gentlemen, in which the reference to GIODO is repeated on several occasions, which is being abolished by the second law, whose first reading took place before noon today. So in a moment, we'll meet again while working on the same bill and we'll update it. Does this order make sense? There's a mistake here somewhere, because if you can't get it through the government, we've got a little bit of a problem. Another important thing is that we didn't get an answer yesterday about the storage, the long storage of data of people who weren't taken any action or who weren't criminals or who weren't people who weren't suspected of anything later. These data are kept in principle contrary to the ruling of the Court of Justice, which issued such a ruling, as indicated yesterday by the Panoptykon Foundation. That's the question we didn't get. We also, of course, have doubts as to whether Poland must extend the implementation of this directive also to intra-EU flights. I know that the Minister stressed that most countries are planning to introduce it or introduce it, but, on the other hand, let's look at it this way: if only three countries have implemented this directive today or yesterday, then I do not know why we are in a hurry. Most countries will not be able to implement it by that date, so we could work calmly and think about how much Slovenia or Finland are going to do. is to introduce and to limit this to non-EU flights only. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will not vote against this bill because we understand the situation in which Poland is in, but it is worth thinking about who made the mistake. I understand that the Minister has recently served as a minister, but if so, you can see that the previous people in the ministry or the previous minister have committed an error of omission and have been very slow for two years, leading to such a situation, so maybe the consequences should be drawn. We as a Kukiz club15 agree with both amendments made. We also had this doubt about the SKOKs yesterday, on the committee we will support these amendments and we will see how this law will leave the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u251	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about a very important directive. The rapporteur has just presented it in quite detail, so that I will not refer to the individual entries, but the information given by Mr Mark Wójcik from the Civic Platform is significant. We are talking about about about 30 million records a year, very extensive, which will be sensitive data. We are talking about such a big IT enterprise at the last minute, basically out of necessity, because if we want to make it before 25, although one way or another the directive will apply to us, this is the last moment. You make a lot of amendments yourself, we don't even have time to read the opinions. It's just hopeless proceding, making laws. I'm counting on you to admit it. I'm really tempted to encourage my own club to vote against this bill. It's not because she's bad, it's not because she's bad, it's not because she's bad. Note, too, that someone will have to prepare this data. This carrier will have to provide the data of the Border Guard, which nomen omen, as you write in the project, will be obliged to prepare an IT system composed of IT devices, databases and software within your own resources. I ask you to answer the question of what the Border Guard achieves when it comes to preparing such complex, large, complex systems in such a short time in total. 'Cause it's gonna take tests and proper security. As I said, we're talking about sensitive data. These sensitive data must be adequately protected. Will you guarantee proper protection of this data? In my opinion, this will be difficult, and I am really disgusted at how you approach it. We will have a conversation at the club on how to decide whether to support this law, because it is necessary or to react to it as unfortunately you deserve, i.e. not to support such procession, the creation of law. It can't be that way, ladies and gentlemen, really. You have to understand that you're like a student who opens his notebook at the last minute, and there's something else he wants to do before the test. Every time, today is the second law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u253	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, although skeptically, accepts with understanding the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council EU 2016/681 of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record data to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist offences and serious crime. With the development of the possibility of free movement of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, as well as third-country nationals, there is an increase in the real possibility of serious crimes, including terrorist attacks, which in no way can escape our parliamentarians, attention. The bill submitted to the High House is intended both to impose on Polish and international law enforcement authorities, including the so-called law enforcement authorities. Special Services, the obligation to minimise the effects and causes of the most serious crimes, including crimes committed by persons, and to prevent them from leaving the place of residence, i.e. a country in which these persons have committed serious crimes against the vital interests of the country concerned, e.g. of a carnal nature. In general, the data received from carriers are to be deleted after the border inspection of passengers of the flight has been completed on the territory of the Republic of Poland, which must take place no later than 24 hours after the date of transmission of the information by the air carrier. The solutions in this respect constitute the transposition of Council Directive 2004/82/EC, which has already been implemented in Polish law by the Law of 3 July 2002. Within the meaning of the proposed act, the term "data' shall be understood to mean Passenger Name Record data, including personal data which are processed in connection with the conduct of business by air carriers for the purpose of making a reservation or the execution of a given flight. The proposed solution is also intended to facilitate international cooperation in the field of data exchange, which will be done by using similar concepts by authorities in other countries. The use in the draft law, as the Directive points out, of the concepts of serious crime will avoid the need to identify the appropriate legal bases for the specific offences provided for by the directive and will also include fiscal offences. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The matter discussed today is very delicate, complicated, and perhaps on many issues and controversial. Therefore, in order to balance the rations and without undue haste to adopt the most rational solutions, for the purposes of broadly understood security, the Polish reason for the state, to ensure the honor and dignity of innocent people, it is necessary, in the preliminary adoption of the ratio legis of these solutions, to re-examine the records of the procedated matter in a calm and in-depth manner. This will allow us to raise our hand calmly in the vote on the adoption of strict but error-free law and non-adverse solutions for both public order and order. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u255	Yes, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! EU law is currently emphasising informing the citizen that his data is being processed. Indeed, such an obligation under this law also arises in relation to air carriers who will inform about the processing of the citizens concerned. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to a section of the position of the General Data Protection Officer. I will read a passage: From the proposed provision, the JIP, i.e. the Passenger Information Unit, after the transfer of PNR data to competent authorities, i.e. uniform services, special services, will, firstly, exclude its obligation to inform passengers about the processing of PNR data and, secondly, limit this obligation to the authorities to which these data have been transmitted. I read further: This information should take place in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. GIODO states: On the other hand, the total exemption from the obligation to provide information [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the opinion of the general inspector, it is unacceptable for passengers to be assessed by the Commission as failing to properly implement the Directive. I ask the Minister to refer also to these issues relating to the information of passengers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u256	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Ms Renata Rzeczch for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u257	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for paying attention to the essence of this regulation, to its rank, to how important a social problem, an important problem in the area of security above all, this law regulates. Focusing on the issues raised here by a number of representatives, Members, I would like to address, first of all, the amendments tabled by Mr Wojcik. The first of the amendments tabled concerns a change in the wording of the Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (6) and the amendment to the wording of this Article involve the drafting of a proposal made by cooperative credit and savings banks, in particular the definition or definition of account numbers in cooperative credit and savings banks. He wished to justify that this is a separate category of bank account number than that defined in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 6 of the draft law, and tried to complete what had already been submitted in the draft. I quote point 6: information on the payment of the ticket, including the number of the payment card, the cash payment information, the information on the invoice or other proof of payment for the ticket and the information contained in the transfer order, the bank account numbers of the sender and the recipient, the name of the sender and the recipient, the amount and currency of the transfer, the date and time of the transfer and its title. The editorial of this article also allows us not to take into account the Member's proposal because the addition of the words "bank accounts numbers in cooperative savings and credit banks' does not meet the requirements of the article'. The purpose of this record is to process the data categories listed. The record, which has been designed, fully consumes the requirement he was talking about, which he requested to present to the Member. The second amendment concerns the amendment to the wording of Article. Paragraph 2 (6) and less so concerns the exclusion of intra-EU flights. Firstly, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to a very important issue, i.e. on the statement made by the Council of the European Union on 18 April 2006, which I will quote from the Council's statement: given the current security situation in Europe, Member States declare that before the deadline for transposition provided for in Article has expired. 18 will make full use of the option provided for in Article. 2. This possibility is precisely that on PNR data it allows Member States wishing to apply this Directive to intra-EU flights. So, my fellow Member, we really follow the Council's recommendations. We are a country that mostly tries to apply these recommendations. Most of the Member States referred to here apply these recommendations. This is the first argument. I would like to point out further that the decision to apply the proposed law also to flights between Member States has been taken by the Member States of the European Union as a result of consultations carried out within the framework of a specially established team. The team was set up in 2016 on the basis of the decision of the leader of the terrorist threat team. The definition of terrorist threats is evolving very rapidly. Over recent years, the definition of terrorist threat has generally expanded. Please accept that the definition of terrorist threat, which was created in 2006 or 2008, as you have said, has changed even in recent years and at this point it is much different from the initial one. In the view of the government, the processing of PNR data is also necessary for intra-EU flights to ensure the security of the State. The terrorist threat is increasingly diagnosed within the European Union as a result of the movement between Member States of persons presenting a specific threat. PNR data obtained on intra-EU flights are of the same value in the context of countering terrorist threats and other crime, as very important as PNR data obtained on non-EU flights. You can't separate these two categories. The possibility of using PNR data obtained from intra-EU flights is, for the time being, a key factor in addressing terrorist threats as well as other criminal phenomena. This is very important, because we only focus on the definition of terrorist threats. On 18 April 2016, as I mentioned, this statement was issued. Most Member States are concerned. I'll name the ones that implement it. This is not the five countries that you requested to talk about here. There are only two countries at the moment... [[The minister gave me three yesterday.]] ...if you allow it, i.e. Slovenia and Ireland. Let's not depreciate yet. Parliamentary teams and parliaments of these countries are working until May 25th, so it is difficult to rule. This is their time. So just two countries, let's not talk about five here. Count how many Member States of the European Union are there. [[Minister, I said only three.]] They're here. Only two countries that still have a problem with the deadline for implementing this directive, if that is the problem at all. At the moment, the decision to extend the directive to intra-EU flights has been taken by countries such as Finland, Italy, Sweden, Lithuania, Latvia, France, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, Belgium, Germany, Croatia, Luxembourg and Austria. Today, i.e. On May 8, we can confirm that. Thank you very much. [[What about the other questions? Border Guard competence?]] Thank you very much, sir, for reminding me. Please read the bill's draft, the reasons for the bill. A special cell was created as part of the Border Guard. All are regulated, i.e. the law governs the rules of operation of that entity. This is chapter 3 of the Act. The unit has been in the system testing phase for several months now. On this basis, we were able - knowing that the directive was coming into force - to prepare for such action. We are also testing the potential for systems that can be used. At the moment, the Border Guard is very well prepared - this also applies to earlier data processing - and it uses several systems, which concern at least... There's a system to support border clearance. The second system supports the collection and processing of information from operational and investigative activities. The third system concerns the management and support of the Border Guard services. Please also accept this explanation that the Border Guard has a very specialised staff that has been preparing for these tasks under the pilot programme for several months now. I assure you that, on the date of the entry into force of the law, we will be ready and this system is operational, as well as the calls that have already started this month... Sorry, this is out of date, it ended in April, so that we are prepared to take these actions already, as I say, on the date of the entry into force of the law. Please appreciate the activities of the Border Guard, as it is a very professional formation with really highly qualified not only IT specialists, but also officers who can handle this task perfectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u258	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Free and Solidarni Circle regarding the government's draft law on the processing of Passenger Name Record data. In the 21st century, one of the biggest threats is terrorism, one of its manifestations is suicide attacks, terrorists constantly improve their methods, they learn security systems, so we should improve our mechanisms every once in a while. This draft law aims at transferring to Poland the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record Data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. The Directive clarifies the regulations relating to the collection and analysis of data and the transmission of data between the countries of the European Union in order to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist offences and serious crime. In the current legal state it is the Border Guard that comes to the carrier to make available the list of passengers on board the aircraft, which will land on the territory of the Republic of Poland. Upon receipt of the request, the air carrier shall collect the required passenger data and forward them to the requesting authority. Data received from carriers shall be deleted 24 hours after receipt. The whole procedure can often take very valuable time. The new legal order will require air carriers to transmit data relating to non-EU passengers. At the same time, in accordance with the Directive, a Member State may decide to apply the provisions of the Directive also to intra-EU flights. According to Art. 2 (2) 1 and 2 Directives: If a Member State decides to apply this Directive to intra-EU flights, it shall inform the Commission thereof in writing. This bill sets out the entities that will process passenger data. It will be among others.: National Passenger Information Unit (JIP), Europol, competent authorities and passenger information units in other Member States, as well as third country authorities. According to Art. Article 6 (6) (a) l of the proposed law is intended to require air carriers to submit data before each scheduled flight within two time limits - between 48 and 24 hours prior to the scheduled start of the flight and immediately after the completion of the ticket and baggage check-in and the boarding of passengers on the aircraft when they can no longer leave before the flight takes off and other passengers cannot board. The Directive also requires that each Member State establish an authority to administer the data provided by carriers. In Poland this body will be the Border Guard. It is an individual who has the right competence for such activities and already has experience in ensuring the security of Polish borders. The adoption of adaptation provisions is a necessity for us in connection with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record Data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. In addition, the new rules will have a positive impact on the detection of planned terrorist attacks and the elimination of crime. In recent years, terrorists have often traveled across Europe, making it difficult for the same services to control them. The introduction in Poland of provisions of a government bill on the processing of Passenger Name Record data will make it easier to catch potential terrorists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u260	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles (prints 2295 and 2409). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a report on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on vehicle managers, prints 2295 and 2409. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading on 27 February 2018. The Infrastructure Commission, following its first reading, considered this draft law at its meeting on 11 April 2018, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Why is this the committee's proposal? Because the effects of the proposed law are very positive. In fact, the essential social and legal effect of the proposed law will be the issue and the improvement of the coherence and transparency of the legal system. In such a sensitive issue as the licensing process, the public must be sure that licences are issued only to persons fulfilling the statutory criteria and that those who wish to obtain them in breach of the law will simply face consequences under this draft law. The proposed law meets these expectations. The draft law does not apply to the property rights and obligations of economic operators or to the rights and obligations of economic operators vis-à-vis public administrations. High Seym! The law is important and has a very interesting justification, because the person who directed this project or the idea of considering this project to the committee did not want to come forward. So there are probably situations where private individuals, individuals see problems that they are even afraid to speak about directly. Nevertheless, the Sejm sensitive to legislative issues, the Sejm responsible for law-making must also take such cases into account. This project will compensate the person who has paid attention to potential frauds or real frauds that occur when a person simply signs a lying statement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u262	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on driving vehicles from print no. 2295, submitted pursuant to Article. The Committee on Petitions and the Committee on Infrastructure's positive opinion on 11 April 2018 have adopted the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The aim of the proposed amendment is to limit the possibility for courts to judge acquittals against persons who lie to the government in the process of obtaining the right to drive. It has been the case that a person has made a false statement stating that he has not been deprived of his driving rights by a final judgment that he has not retained his driving licence or his authorisation to drive a tram and that he is not entitled to drive and that the court has not drawn the consequences. According to the Supreme Court's judgment, the legal status does not allow the person making such a false statement to be punished. In its judgment of 3 September 2015, the Supreme Court stated, quote: The mode of issue of the driving licence is governed by the Act of 5 January 2011 on driving vehicles. Its provisions do not include the authorisation of the administrative authority to receive statements from applicants for a driving licence under criminal liability for the provision of false data. Thus, the Supreme Court has ruled that it is impossible to convict for writing lies in a statement if the obligation to make a statement is not included in the bill. The proposed law sanctiones the existing arrangements set out in the Annex to the Regulation of the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction of 24 February 2016 on the issuing of documents stating the right to drive which required the submission of such declarations. After the amendments, the obligation for the applicant to make such a declaration will result directly from the provisions of the Act. Any false statement will threaten to be sanctioned. The result of the proposed law will be the fact that the court will have to punish for writing lies in statements. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On a sensitive issue such as the issue of driving licences, our citizens should be sure that such rights are issued only to persons fulfilling the statutory criteria. Due to the positive impact of the changes introduced, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my views on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles contained in prints 2295 and 2409. The aim of the proposed law is to bring about a situation in which the applicant and the holder of the licence will be in real danger of legal consequences in the event of a false declaration. Today, the law of these records Unfortunately, it doesn't. These reservations and this description are set out in the Annex to the Regulation. Despite the fact that on the application, on the model document which makes such a declaration... there is an endorsement of the criminal liability of the article. 233 § 1 of the Penal Code, today the Supreme Court has stated that, due to such a declaration, where this provision is not statutory but is in a regulation, it cannot pronounce a conviction of such a person, i.e. it cannot bring him to criminal liability. That's why it's changed. Here are the big bows to Mr. Sławomir Infantry, who is the chairman of the petition committee. I wanted to thank him because, in fact, this amendment to the bill is very much needed. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will therefore request that this amendment be adopted. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speakers have already discussed the provisions of the Act in detail. Of course, it is difficult to disagree with them, which is why, while respecting everyone's time, I just want to inform you that Kukiz15 will be behind the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u268	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the proposed law is to transfer the obligation as regards the applicant for a driving licence, to make a declaration under criminal liability under Article. 233 § 1 of the Penal Code. In the case of such a person, there is no judicial ban on driving. Currently, such an obligation is contained in the regulation, which makes such a person not liable criminally for making such a false statement, as confirmed by the Supreme Court in its judgment. I would like to point out that the project is a draft petition committee, which I have the honour of being a member of. On behalf of the whole Modern, I can say that we are as much in favour of this project as there can be no situation that we have the right in a regulation that we are not able to enforce by the Penal Code. I would like to give you an example. Zamość, my father, Mr.Malys, whose son, Rafał, a teenage boy, died on December 13, 2016 at the pedestrian crossing during school classes, during the transition to classes that take place outside the school, at the pool. This happened because the driver, I don't know, was careless, didn't look at what was happening on the street. There is a judgment in the case that this driver received, and this judgment, according to the information that I have, is already a final judgment - for 5 years of withdrawal of the licence, for 2 years of imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, what will be the next five years in a situation where this person wants to apply for a driver's license again? If we hadn't changed that right, if we hadn't voted in favour of this bill, for this proposal, there would be a situation that the driver of this vehicle could have lied, not told the truth about the fact that he was banned from driving, that he was punished, that he had been given some kind of sentence. He could get his driver's license back without a problem. I hope that in such cases, even as this 5-year period will pass, there will be no situation that there will be such rules that will actually result in people who are careless, inconsiderate, who are road pirates, under the wheels where innocent people, children, very often older people die - in recent times we have heard many times how many teenagers have died on the road - that in such situations just a driving licence will not be granted again, or very sharp exams will be given and these people will not only be obliged to give harsher, more stringent exams, but also to follow more. I hope this project... This is a citizens' project brought forward by a person who has taken advantage of the citizens' opportunity to send a proposal to change the right to the Parliament's petition committee, for which I would like to thank you very warmly from this place. I hope that such projects will be as much as possible, because it is thanks to the citizens who are watching our law, who see the gaps in the law, that we have the opportunity to change this right for the better. Modern, as I mentioned, will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much to the petition committee and to the Chairman of the Infantry for allowing such projects and giving them a chance to take a legislative path to such projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u270	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Our club supports this work, supports it, believes it is right. We are convinced that it will be a kind of beginning, such a good idea that these suggestions, these conclusions, these incoming proposals will be increasingly considered, taken into account, because this project shows that it is possible to go this way when it comes to such issues being raised by citizens. Minister! Very good. I think this will explain some issues, tighten them up, close them up, eliminate the possibility of avoiding certain procedures. It is normal that there will be some real consequences for making statements that are not true and that there will be a legal basis for making use of these provisions. So that, as I pointed out at the outset, our club will support this and will vote in favour of these entries in the final. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that this is another very good initiative of the petition committee. The petition was filed by the citizen, this time very tragically experienced, very painfully experienced. Indeed, there are projects coming out of this committee that concern our everyday life, our life situations. We standardise the law, not so far - the regulation, the consequences of false statements by tram drivers. I would like to ask: Did we check or have knowledge on this project, or was it the only case like this, or are there any others? Was this the last case that we should sanction, or should we still verify, verify situations that would have to be subject to such a statutory regulation, and perhaps are enshrined in the regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u274	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, I would like to thank you very warmly and to draw attention to one very important educational aspect of this change, because the fact that the declaration made by the citizen was false and for this reason the citizen had no consequences, in my opinion, had a much stronger dimension in all other areas. We must change the law in such a way that citizens are aware that not only in this law, but in any other situation when a citizen makes a statement, he must make a statement truthfully, in accordance with the truth. He can't mumble here, he can't use a lie, and if he does, he's gonna suffer the consequences. This educational value is also very important. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u276	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Bittel to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u277	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The government's position on the draft committee submitted is well known. The government supports this regulation as one that seals the system, making it more coherent. The element that you were talking about, education or one that indicates that responsibility for the statement you have made must be taken on and therefore bear the consequences of it, is also a serious treatment of the citizen, who, if he says he declares that it is so and so, of course, must be believed, and sometimes the situation needs to be checked. As far as the question is concerned, I am, frankly, unable to answer them right now, because hundreds of regulations would have to be examined at once, so it is difficult to say, but in this area for which the Ministry of Infrastructure is responsible, there is no such space anymore. It's a question of a system nature, it needs to be checked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u278	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. This Act is the consequence of a petition by one of the citizens who pointed out the urgent need to amend the rules so that the applicant and the holder of the licence to drive the tram threaten to have real legal consequences in the event of a false declaration. The current state of law does not allow the person making the false statement to be punished. In its judgment of 3 September 2015, the Supreme Court stated that the provisions relating to the issue of a driving licence do not authorise the administration to withdraw from persons who apply for a driving licence, statements under criminal liability for providing false data on the subject of a driving ban. As there is no such provision in the Act, it is not possible to convict for making a false statement, despite prejudice of criminal liability. This Act sanctiones the existing solution, as set out in the Annex to the Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction of 24 February 2016 on the issuance of documents stating entitlement to drive. The new provisions of the Act will be replaced by the wording which will require the person in charge to make a statement that: "It has not been ordered against it by a final judgment of the court, a ban on driving, no driver's license or a licence to drive a tram, no right to drive vehicles has been revoked.' The changes made will benefit from the coherence and transparency of the legal system. Everyone will be able to be sure that a driving licence is issued only to persons who meet certain requirements and that motorists who have obtained a driving licence in breach of the regulations (they must have withheld information) will be held liable. In view of the above, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u280	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws (Prints No 1933 and 2420). I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws, print No 1933. The Sejm at its meeting of 9 November 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 of the Rules of Procedure referred the above draft to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after its consideration at its meetings on 21 November 2017 and 11 April 2018, requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The project concerns, among others: to extend the scope of the right to establish trade unions in order to comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015 and of 13 May 2008 by amending the criminal rules in such a way as to comply with the definition requirement. In addition to the adoption of legislative amendments during work in the Trade Unions Act in Article. Point 1 gives a new wording to the definition of a person performing a job so that it does not concern persons presenting an economic risk and Article. 3 (1) (a) The principle of equal treatment between workers is clarified in point 5. I would like to mention, of course, the addition of an article. 11 enabling representative trade unions to be financed from the budget by their affiliate contributions to international organisations. This is a similar solution to that which has been applicable since 2006 to employers' unions. These are the most important things. As I said at the outset, I would like the High Sejm to announce the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u282	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House a position vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws, 1933 and 2420 prints. The proposed amendments aim, in particular, at the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2 June 2015 in the form of an application. Act K 1/13. In the statement of reasons for that judgment, the Court indicated that freedom of association in the trade unions referred to in Article. 59 (1) (a) 1 of the Constitution, any worker within the constitutional meaning, and an employee as an entity of freedom of association in trade unions cannot be identified solely by the nature of the legal relationship between him and his employer. In the current legal state, the right to create and join trade unions is not subject to such a wide range. It mainly serves employees within the meaning of the Labour Code. The international treaties treat freedom of association of persons in organisations set up to defend rights and represent professional, economic and social interests as fundamental human rights. Active people associate in trade unions to defend their interests. In order to achieve, maintain and multiply trade union rights and professional, economic, social and partly political interests, they organize protest actions - strikes. Therefore, in the Polish legal system, legal arrangements should be provided to ensure that freedom of association covers all employees, not only employees within the meaning of the Labour Code. This objective is fully implemented by the legal draft. The main purpose of the amendment is to enable the creation of trade unions and to join them, in particular, self-employed people and those who are based on civil law contracts, such as contract contracts, service contracts or contract for works. This is to be done by the proposed definition of the concept of a person doing a job, according to which a worker or a person providing a job for a remuneration on a different basis than the employment relationship if he does not employ other persons for that type of work, irrespective of the basis of the employment, and has such professional interests associated with the performance of work as a group-protected person. In particular, it is about highlighting three elements defining the legal framework for the concept of worker as the entity of constitutional freedom of association in a trade union. The draft law also provides for the introduction of appropriate safeguard mechanisms guaranteeing independence from employers, autonomy and freedom of action for trade unions. This is a direct consequence of extending the scope of the right to establish and join trade unions. It is difficult to imagine the effective performance by trade unions of their functions without giving them the appropriate powers. I would like to stress that the solutions proposed in this project have been developed with the cooperation of the social partners, particularly within the framework of the Problem Group on. Labour law of the Social Dialogue Council. In addition, representatives of both trade unions and employers' organisations participated in numerous meetings of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. In conclusion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I find that the proposed law rightly extends the right to establish trade unions and to join them, especially those employed under civil law agreements. The non-workable categories of workers deserve to be strengthened also in collective labour law. I believe that remodeling the scope of the subjective law of the coalition will lead to many important social changes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask you to continue to process the bill and to state that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law presented by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u284	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws. The draft is contained in print No 1933, and the report is contained in print No 2420. High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club indicated from the outset that the proposed amendment to the Trade Union Act raises some doubts. Given that the planned amendments are the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015, the project should be well prepared. It should not create any problems of interpretation which will impede the application of the new rules. Incoherent rules lead to chaos. November 9th Ub. The project was addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and on 21 November to the Permanent Sub-Committee on Labour Market Affairs. In January, at the first meeting of the Labour Market Sub-Committee, the need for an amendment by the government party on the substance of the proposed law - the definition of the person doing the job was reported. The amendment proposed by the government consisted in deleting the point which defined the person doing the work by the criterion not to bear the economic risk associated with the work. The introduction of this condition would result in the exclusion of self-employed workers who would lose their right to association. Only the adoption of this amendment, i.e. the deletion of the criterion results in compliance with the basic objective of the amendment. I would like to stress that, unfortunately, the way the subcommittee worked raised some reservations. The proposed amendments were made to the members of the subcommittee and to the staff of the Legislative Office only a few minutes before the meeting. We didn't get a chance to get a good look at them. The changes were adopted ad hoc, and in my opinion they were transmitted with inadequate care. The Commission has introduced substantive amendments to the related contributions to international trade union organisations. These organisations represent the interests of those working for work towards the institutions of the European Union. According to the new wording of the article, these contributions may be co-financed by the State budget in the form of a special subsidy. These changes were sought by union organisations. The next amendment concerns this part of the Trade Unions Act, which refers to state budgetary units. The lack of consistency with the Public Finance Act meant that these rules were dead. The new wording is compatible with the law as a result of changing the concept to: units of the public finance sector. The next article of the Trade Union Act has been extended by a point which specifies the period of time which obliges employers to provide the company's trade union organisation with the information necessary for carrying out the trade union activity within 30 days of receipt of the application. At the request of the National Credit and Savings Co-operative with the support of the government side, the committee took into account the request in the form of an amendment, which enables the keeping of trade union accounts not only in banks, but also in cooperative savings and credit banks. The amendment was accepted despite opposition. The Commission also accepted the amendment, which is a consequence of the introduction of subsidiary contributions. It will enable employers' organisations to participate more widely in European dialogue. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, despite the comments I have indicated, will support the draft in print report No 2420. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u286	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the entry into force of the Act, more people will have the opportunity to get together in trade unions. In addition, the Act implements the judgment of the Constitutional Court. These are two reasons sufficient for the Kukiz15 to give a positive opinion on the project and to recommend further work on it in the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is right, of course, to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, and it is in this draft law that we support. On the other hand, I would like to make a few amendments and talk about them now. First of all, the question of abandoning the economic criterion and only requiring a 6-month traineeship, which determines the acquisition of the rights of the trade union organisation. It's an art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of These provisions do not specify how this 6-month period of entitlement to join the union would be calculated - whether it is a continuous period or a combined period, in some time period. The previous version of the project, as you may remember, provided that these powers would be allocated to an organisation of at least 10 members engaged in employment, provided that they provide work for a particular employer for at least 6 months and that they are entitled to at least 50% of the employer's earnings. the total remuneration received for the performance of the work. And that's the amendment I'm making. When we talked about it, the question of defining a link between a person doing a job and an employer was emphasized. We were talking about Germany, Spain, where the economic criterion is 50 and 75% respectively. revenue. We therefore consider it appropriate to repeat the discussion on the economic criterion. The second element to be dealt with by the amendment is Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 7, where it has been indicated that an employer's union organisation is entitled to raise objections as to the size of the trade union organisation. It seems that this should be the case for a trade union organisation, as it is rather doubtful that such a reservation could be made by an organisation without the status of a trade union organisation. Another amendment is to supplement the provision, I am talking about the article here. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 8 of the project, the possibility for the parties to clarify in the collective agreement the concept of ad hoc union activities. And the last amendment is a matter of time limits - Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 project. This is about the possibility for the union organization to hold a position and these terms are long, 7 and 14 days, and in the Labour Code in Article. 38 and Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 52 we have a deadline of 5 and 7 calendar days. I think it's worth harmonising this system. Of course, we are not going to file a motion to reject this bill and we propose... I hereby make these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u290	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Margaret Zwierzan made written statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. Question time - 1 minute. There is no Member. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law goes against two important conventions of the International Labour Organisation - Convention No 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of Trade Union Rights, as well as Convention No 98 on the application of the principles of the right to organise and collective bargaining. It is a good step of the government towards civilising social relations, social relations between the world of work and the world of employers. Doubts are raised by the Civic and Modern Platform. These are doubts behind which there is such an aversion to the Land movement, which is not surprising, but I believe that the decisions contained in the draft law are a good gift on the 70th anniversary of the adoption of Convention 87, which, I will remind you, was adopted by the ILO [[♪ The bell ♪]] in 1948. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u292	Thank you very much. And Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act provides an indication that the right of association will not be exercised by persons with economic risks associated with the performance of the work in question. Hence, the question of how to understand and how to determine whether someone is taking such a risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Stanisław Szwed will speak at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs for supporting the draft law on amending the Trade Union Act. This title is perhaps misleading for some, because we are talking about a draft law on trade unions, and we know very well that it concerns both employees and employers, so that it is an important law concerning the conduct of labour matters and employers in our legal order. This is a tough bill we've been working on for a long time. We have also worked long to find the best possible solutions when it comes to a compromise between the trade union side and the employers' side. And I think that we have succeeded both at the level of work within the Social Dialogue Council, individual teams and later within the committee and subcommittee headed by Mr Janusz Śniadek. We have developed good solutions that will facilitate the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, enabling the creation of trade unions also for people working under civil law agreements, and these powers will be. As I said, these are good solutions to the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, which Mr Jan Mosiński spoke about. With regard to these questions that have arisen - the subsidiary contribution. It was a commitment by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to make up for the situation we have been dealing with so far. So far, affiliative contributions have been paid by employers, they do not have paid contributions by trade unions, so Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki committed himself at the first meeting of the Social Dialogue Council chaired by Minister Elżbieta Rafalska to the fact that this matter will be settled - the parties, the social partners must be treated equally, hence the payment - the subsidiary contribution for both employers and the union party. The maximum documented amount is up to 300,000. within a year. We know that these are higher amounts for some organisations and, as far as these costs are concerned, they will already have to cover them with their own resources. As for the question of allowing the opening of accounts in SKOKs, it is already happening today. Trade unions have bills like that. The point was that it was already included in the bill, so that it would be legal as well. This issue has already been settled. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will follow this up in the committee when it comes to the proposals tabled. As I said, this law was very strongly discussed between the social partners and this is the result of this work, which I hope will be adopted at this meeting of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u296	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Trade Union Act is described as a key change in the approach to trade unions' activities. The intention of this law is focused on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015. There's a trap behind this bill. The Court's judgment is, of course, aimed at extending the rights of the so-called. non-retirement workers. It is about people who are employed in companies on contracts other than employment, and it is not a matter of seasonal employment. From the point of view of a non-retirement worker, guaranteeing the possibility of association in a trade union can provide some kind of comfort. This will be linked to possible trade union protection, representing the interests of the group so-called. non-retirement workers. Unfortunately, this may have some harmful consequences. The law may give employers a misconception that, since workers who are not present may belong to unions, companies should not be directed to generate new employment positions on the basis of a contract of employment. It's a black script, but at a time when companies count costs, it's not excluded. Of course, we will not be against providing this form of protection or additional privileges for non-retatual workers, but in parallel, it is worth considering the scenario of working on a package of laws promoting employment under the employment agreement. We propose to return to the programme that was introduced by the previous government, PSL, and work for young people, where positions for university graduates were co-financed as part of the first job. All state institutions should also employ their employees solely on the basis of a contract of employment. An example of a company that does not do this is the so-called company. Polish Television, so-called because today it does not fulfil the mission of the public medium. As you can see, there's something to work on and we're calling for this kind of work. Abstracting from the fact that we are in favour of a firm reduction in civil law contracts for the employment of people, we will support the proposed novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the existing provisions of the Trade Union Act, persons performing work on the basis of a contract for work, contract of order or contract for the provision of services and so-called. self-employed persons could not form or join trade unions. In its judgment of 2 June 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the scope of the regulation of the admissibility and accession of trade unions is too narrow in relation to constitutional guarantees. The amendment of the bill comes in front of it. As a long-standing member of the NSZZ.Solidarity, I welcome the solutions proposed, but knowing how difficult it has been to create new union organisations in establishments, how often members of the union have been exposed to pressure from the employer, I have a question as to whether the proposed solutions will provide adequate protection mechanisms for those who have obtained a new right to join or create a union, against unequal treatment. Are there estimates of how many new people can join trade unions? Will the Act force any additional costs on the employers' side? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws. During the work on this project so far, it has been repeated on several occasions that it is expected to restore the right to coalition and association. However, as could be observed during committee meetings and subcommittees, compromise in this area is difficult to reach. Also, the long waiting time for this law to be dealt with, the negotiations with the social partners and the consultation of the Social Dialogue Council show that it is not easy to reach an agreement. However, we are obliged to adopt the amendment by the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015 that the current regulations giving the right to association only to persons employed for employment contracts do not meet constitutional requirements. Thanks to the solutions contained in this project, self-employed and civil law workers will be able to join trade unions. I understand the concerns of employers who are afraid of abuse. In my opinion, however, the project contains the conditions which those who join or enter the union will have to fulfil, which possible abuses will minimise, as well as the detailed clarification of any questionable issue in the course of their work. The proposed changes are revolutionary, but also necessary. Three years have passed since the TK judgment and it needs to be adapted. During the work of the subcommittee, there were suggestions that this law is unnecessary, since work on the new Labour Code is underway in the codification committee. Today, the Code is already at a certain stage finished and the legislative process has started, but before the consultation is completed and it will be under session by the Sejm, another long month will pass. In my opinion, we need our action today. Therefore, next to Free and Solidarni, he will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u300	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Occupational Pensions Programmes (Prints No. 2391 and 2486). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u301	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Occupational Pensions. The draft is contained in Seym printing No 2391 and the committee's report is in print No 2486. Ladies and gentlemen! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 6 April 2018, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The reason for the amendment of the Act on Occupational Pensions is the need to adapt the provisions of the current Act on Occupational Pensions of 20 April 2004 to the provisions of Directive 2014/50 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum requirements to increase the mobility of workers between Member States by facilitating the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. The most important changes proposed in the draft concern, among others. determining the maximum waiting period for the acquisition of the right to join the supplementary pension scheme. The draft provides for the introduction into the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1c entry with the following wording: The establishment contract may not provide for more than 3 years of traineeship entitlement to participate in the programme. The next amendment concerns the extension of the information obligations of employers with occupational pension schemes vis-à-vis programme participants, former employees and persons entitled to receive the money they raise in the event of the death of the programme participant. In addition, managers of occupational pension schemes were required to immediately inform employers running the programme, at their request, of the value of the funds collected in the employee's account - an active participant - or former employee. In addition, according to the project, the supervisory authority was required by 31 January 2019 to amend the register of occupational pension schemes for employers who did not comply with the obligation to notify the adaptation of works contracts to the proposed provisions. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed solutions do not affect the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. These solutions should not create burdens for employers, as they are already obliged to provide workers with the scope of information set out in the Act on occupational pension schemes. The amended law is to enter into force on the day following the date of publication in the Official Journal, as on 21 May 2018 the deadline for implementing Directive 2014/50 of the European Parliament and of the Council expires. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Social Policy and Family Committee, following its first reading and consideration at its meeting on 7 May 2018, requests the adoption by the Sejm of a draft law in the form of print No 2391. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Warwas, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u303	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Employee Pension Programmes, print no. 2391. High Seym! The draft amendment of the law adapts Polish law to the EU directive, which aims to facilitate the exercise of the right to free movement of workers between the countries of the European Union. One of the main areas to be amended is the definition of the maximum waiting period for the employee to acquire the right to join the supplementary pension scheme. The current regulations leave freedom to the parties to the works contract in this respect, providing only for minimum traineeships which should not be less than 3 months. According to the draft article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1c of the Act the acquisition of the entitlement to join the occupational pension scheme will require a maximum of 3 years of employment. From an employee's perspective, this means that in order to join the programme, he will have to register with the employer for 3 months to 3 years, depending on what the establishment contract provides for in this respect. In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 2 The Act amending the Works Contract providing for more than 3 years of service entitlement to participate in the Staff Pension Scheme on the day preceding the date of entry into force of the new regulations should be adapted to the new provisions by 31 December 2018. The amendment of the Act on occupational pension schemes also provides for the addition of two new information obligations for current and former participants in occupational pension schemes or persons entitled to receive funds collected by them. Thus, in relation to the current PPE participants, the employer will be obliged to provide the participant with clear information on how the termination of the participant's employment will affect its powers to the funds collected under the PPE. On the other hand, information obligations for former PPE participants will also include information requirements for information not more than once a year on the value of the funds collected in the account of the former EPP participant and on the conditions for their treatment. The same scope of information will have to be communicated by the employer to the persons entitled to receive the funds collected by the participant in the event of his death. In addition, managers of occupational pension schemes were required to promptly provide employers running the programme with information on the value of the funds collected in the employee's account, an active participant, or a former employee at their request. The solution contained in the project should not create a burden on employers, as they already have to provide workers with the information set out in the Act on Occupational Pensions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes are beneficial for workers - participants in occupational pension schemes. In view of the positive effects of the proposed amendments, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Government's draft law amending the Act on occupational retirement schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is pleased to present its position on the Act amending the Act on Employee Pension Programmes in print no. 2391, following the meeting of the Social Policy and Family Committee held on 7 May 2018. The purpose of this law is to implement the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. The Directive lays down provisions to facilitate the exercise of the right to free movement of workers between Member States of the European Union by reducing obstacles arising from certain rules on supplementary pension schemes related to employment relations. The existing provisions set out in the current Act provide for a minimum period of employment entitled to participate in the occupational pension scheme. They shall also allow the freedom specified in the works contract. On the other hand, the draft law provides that an undertaking contract may not provide for more than 3 years of employment with the employer in question, which entitles him to participate in occupational pension schemes. This draft law also introduces an information obligation for employers, covering the scope of the individual information of the participant in the pension scheme concerning the conditions for the acquisition of rights, the value of the rights acquired, the conditions for the future treatment of inactive rights and instructions in the event of reimbursement. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments made are of an adaptation and technical nature. They regulate existing solutions and introduce some not too burdensome obligations for employers. Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform will vote in favour of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u306	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law introduces positive changes for employees and also regulates matters on the line employer - employee. In addition, it is the implementation of European Union legislation. So the Kukiz club15 obviously supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. There is no Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas made a statement in writing. As none of your fellow Members have submitted a question, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Employee Retirement Programmes, print no. 2391. The purpose of the amendment is to implement Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum requirements to increase the mobility of workers between Member States by facilitating the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. The amendment of the PPE Act raises three issues: it sets out the maximum permissible waiting period for one employer to acquire entitlement to the supplementary pension scheme for up to 3 years, as until now the Act did not specify the maximum waiting period for the traineeship, so that employers could determine this time at their discretion or not at all; extending the information obligations of employers operating occupational pension schemes to their members, former employees and persons entitled to receive funds collected by the participants of the scheme in the event of their death; and regulates the transmission of information by PPE managers to the employer. Positive aspects of the project. The amendments aim to facilitate the acquisition of PPE information in the event of a cessation of employment relationship with the employer concerned, in order to facilitate the decision-making of the form of continuation of PPE in the form of the new employer, if the latter leads the PPE, or the IKE. Guaranteeing a worker maximum waiting time for the right to join the occupational pension scheme - a period of 3 years of work seems optimal in today's labour market conditions. It is, as I understand it, to increase the availability of PPE for a wider range of employees of a given workplace and to increase the equality of employees of the employer over 3 years of work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The novel we are working on will adapt the Polish right to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum requirements to increase the mobility of workers between Member States by facilitating the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights. The project involves adding a provision specifying the maximum allowed duration of the waiting period for the acquisition of allowances. EU regulations assume that the duration of the acquisition of irreparable entitlements or the waiting period should not exceed 3 years for workers whose employment relationship ceases for reasons other than the acquisition of pension rights. Ladies and gentlemen! According to experts in countries where there is no obligation to save extra money for old age, more than half of the workers do not save. This means that more and more countries are reaching for an automatic system of entry into the pension scheme. Of course, such a program has its drawbacks, among others. setting as low as possible contributions, but also brings many positives. These solutions vary from country to country in the European Union in terms of the rules on participation, the universality of the system or the way in which contributions are financed. The programmes have mainly spread where they are mandatory or quasi-mandatory. Tax benefits are also an effective way to encourage people to participate. The Polish project draws much from British patterns, but the authors of the Polish solution tried to avoid its weaknesses. In the Polish system, the contract will have the character of an automatic contract. Employers who do not choose the provider of the pension plan will automatically be assigned to the TFI PFR. The British solution is based on tax exemption, which is preferred by wealthy people and what is costly for you. In Poland, there is to be an additional amount. Such a solution is more favourable to less earners. According to the government proposal, information obligations for employers vis-à-vis programme participants, former employees and persons entitled to receive funds collected by the programme participant in the event of its death have been established. Employee pension scheme managers were required to report immediately to programme employers, upon their request, information on the value of the funds collected in the employee's (active participant's) or former employee's account, as employers are not always in possession of the required set of information. According to the project, the supervisory authority was required by 31 January 2019 to amend the register of occupational pension schemes for employers who did not comply with the obligation to notify the adaptation of works contracts to the wording of the proposed law. The solutions contained in the project should not create a burden on employers, as they already have to provide workers with the information set out in the Act on Occupational Pensions. The PSL Club will vote in favour of further work on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u311	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 08 h 18 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the governmental bill amending the law on the signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland (prints no. 2387 and 2444). I would like to ask Anna Maria Siakowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I have the honour to present a report on the government's draft amendment to the Act on the Signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, prints no. 2387 and 2444. The first reading of the draft law took place at committee meetings on 11 and 12 April. Following a discussion at both meetings of the committee, the draft was adopted in its original form without any amendments. What does the project involve? The core of the project is the introduction of territorial defence symbols, which belong to the types of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The territorial defence forces receive a military eagle and a flag. The Eagle of the Territorial Defence Army, as well as the sign used by the Land Army, will be an eagle that sits on the shield of the Amazon, in which it is inscribed the Sign of Poland Fighting. The same military eagle will also be on the flag, which will be dedicated to the Territorial Defence Army. High Seym! The discussion, which took place at the meeting of the National Defence Committee, focused mainly on the validity of the use of the Sign of Poland Fighting as a sign which points to the specificity of the Territorial Defence Forces. Members of the opposition raised doubts in this regard. We would like to quote here the arguments which were included in the justification of the law, as well as the arguments which Members raised during the meeting of the Committee on National Defence, which indicated that the Mark of Poland Fighting is a symbol which refers to the proud tradition of fighting and resistance of the Polish people to the German occupation, as well as to the Soviet occupation during World War II. It refers to the heritage of the Polish Underground State and its army, the National Army. This heritage is one of the most important elements not only of our independence tradition, but also of our national identity. By using the Sign of Poland Fighting as a sign characterizing this type of Armed Forces, i.e. the Army of Territorial Defence, it thus refers directly to the heritage of the Polish Underground State and its army. In this way, the Territorial Defence Forces symbolically also become a continuation of this tradition: the tradition of the Polish Underground State and the tradition of the National Army. Is this legitimate? Definitely. First of all, the National Army was a common territorial military organization. Its command structures and training centers, as well as the troops of areas, districts, subregions, circuits and facilities included the whole state, the municipalities and villages included. The newly created Territorial Defence Forces are also a territorial armed formation whose primary task will be to defend on-site. Secondly, the establishment of the Territorial Defence Army is the culmination of the long-term efforts made by the Polish Army's community as well. It is worth recalling here, for example, a letter from the President of the World Association of National Army Soldiers of 7 December 2000 to the then Minister of National Defence, which was then none other than Bronisław Komorowski. At that time, the President of the World Union of National Army Soldiers addressed the Minister of National Defence, expressed in this letter the desire that the territorial structures of territorial defence should adopt and continue the traditions of the AK-voy. At the same time, he stressed that the continuation of the tradition of the Home Army by territorial defence would be a great tribute both to the fight and the victims of the Home Army soldiers, as well as to the use of invaluable organisational and military experience of the Home Army in creating an effective defence force of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, it took a while for the Home Army soldiers to carry out this will, but it was worth it. This was possible at the time of the formation of the Territorial Defence Army as a separate type of Armed Forces. Thanks to this 28th of June Ub. r. The World Union of National Army Soldiers has passed on the traditions of the General Command of the National Army of Territorial Defence. High Izbo! This heritage, the heritage of the Polish Underground State and its Home Army, has been passed on to us by the past generation. The current generation should continue this legacy. The acquisition by the Army of Territorial Defence of the symbolism of the Polish Underground State and its Home Army is the best example of this and the best symbol. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I recommend the adoption of a draft law which amends the law on the signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u313	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Act on the Signs of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The amendment of the law proposed by the government provides for the introduction for the Army of Territorial Defence of the symbolism of the type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland: the military eagle and the flag of the type of Armed Forces. The Territorial Defence Army as a new type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland are a very important element of strengthening the military capacity of our country. We have very positive experience in forming the first three forces of the Territorial Defence Army in Eastern Poland. Okay. 7,000. volunteers who have already taken a soldier's oath in the Army of Territorial Defence, are people of different ages, different professions, people with excellent competences useful in modern army, but above all they are patriots ready to sacrifice for our homeland. As patrons of the brigades and battalions, they take heroes, commanders of the Home Army, leaders of the Polish Underground State and enchanted by Communists soldiers of integrity. The proposed law is in a sense a response to this bottom-up patriotic attitude of the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. Currently, in the Land Army, inheritors of the oldest sign, shaped still in 1815, is used an eagle sitting on the shield of amazons. Signs of other types of Armed Forces were created on the basis of adding to this historical pattern elements indicating their tradition and specificity. And so: in the Navy the shield field is dark blue, and on the eagle a golden anchor of the admirality was placed, in the Air Force on the sides of the eagle are placed Huss wings based on the shield of amazons, in the Special Army the shield of amazons is black. The same principle was also adopted in the case of the pattern of the Eagle of the Territorial Defence Army, imposing on the shield amazon gold sign of Poland Fighting. These are flags. The use in the image of the eagle and the flag of the Sign of Poland Fighting emphasizes the fact that defending the homeland is a matter and a duty of all citizens of the Republic. This symbol of the fight between the Polish people and the Nazi invader refers to the tradition to which contemporary soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army refer, i.e. the heroes of the Polish Underground State and the Home Army, as well as the cursed soldiers. The design of the eagle and flags is a simple, yet aesthetic and readable symbol for all the Territorial Defence Army. At the same time, with the in-service arrangements, a public consultation was carried out with the Kombatant organizations associating soldiers of the National Army and insurgents of Warsaw and with associations dealing with state and military symbolism. According to the consultations conducted with the Kompatan environments, these environments supported the project. They only submitted certain technical comments, which were taken into account and accepted in the project. The draft was also addressed to the Heraldic Commission for an opinion. This committee did not initially deliver an opinion within the time limit set. Following the adoption of the bill in November 2017 by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, the Heraldic Commission finally expressed its opinion - it was a negative opinion - stating that the use of the symbol of Poland Fighting in the Eagle of the Territorial Defence Army does not indicate the specificity of the Territorial Defence Army. This opinion is not shared by the drafter of the law, the majority of the Members of the Committee on National Defence, who have consulted the draft, nor by the Members of my club, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, on whose behalf I have the honour of presenting this position. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u315	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Marshal, there is no minister, so I understand that there is no government representative in discussing this point. The point is very important, it concerns the Territorial Defence Army, I understand, one of the priorities of this government. And there's no government representative? It's really a fall. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is a priority for you and today there is no minister in these benches who represents the Polish government, it is a fall. If you're saying that the territorial defense force is a priority, today you've clearly shown what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, you know exactly what the veterans are entitled to wear. There may also be an appropriate mark on the headband, which is white and red. My grandfather who spent eight years in Siberia wearing a blindfold like this would have been my great-grandfather's if he hadn't been murdered in the East. The band with the Mark of Poland Fighting has the right to wear veterans who fought during the German occupation, including in the Warsaw Uprising. The sign of Poland Fighting is one of the most important symbols for Poles. It symbolizes devotion, struggle and heroism. But there's something else about it. It is simply necessary to earn the right to bear such a sign. The right to bear such a sign must be earned. The right to bear such a sign must be fought with devotion to the country. Today I ask the public, also to you: Do the Territorial Defence Army meet these conditions? Answer the question. Did the Defense Army... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ... Territorially they deserved it when they needed their north of Poland, when the north of Poland fought the storm? Were they there? Or maybe they worked their asses off later, coming in and removing the effects of the storm? No, ladies and gentlemen, they're not there. To collect branches and sweep leaves we will not call the army - said the Pomeranian voivode on behalf of PiS Dariusz Drelich. You can fight not only the enemy, but you can fight the element. Did the Territorial Defence Army take up this fight? Do you know where the territorial defense troops were when this disaster occurred in the north of the country? The territorial defense forces were on the parade at the time, ladies and gentlemen. On a parade in Warsaw. Soldiers of the defense were profiling President Andrzej Duda. Is that really where they belong? High Izbo! Patriots serve in the Territorial Defence Forces. That's what I think. Today, the problem is not young people who join in the ministry, but PiS politicians who try to use these young people in a propaganda manner. It was Antoni Macierewicz who said that after 14 days of training, the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army would be ready to oppose the Specialist. Well, did he say yes or no? He did. I'll also remind you of the words of colonel. Sławomir Kocanowski, who in turn talked about the role played by the Territorial Defence Forces: It happens just as naturally as each of us is watching a moving neighbor: who is the family, what kind of car. The question could only be whether the political views and faith of these neighbours will be checked. That's the real problem today, because you've tried to politicize the troops. But you're not gonna make it, I assure you, and you're gonna be left behind, PiS ministers, just a sad memory in the barracks. Antoni Macierewicz also submitted a request for territorial defence soldiers to be able to wear the Sign of Poland Fighting. I will now quote to you a section of the Ministry's justification: the National Army and the Modern Territorial Defence Army divides time, but combines mission, structure and territoriality. Is it really? Is it true that the Territorial Defence Army and the National Army share the same mission? Fighting the German invader? Because that was the mission of the Home Army, that was the mission of the insurgents. They have a structure in common? So what, the underground state had the same structure as now the Territorial Defense Army? So, what, the underground state that took out the collaborators, the goldsmiths who executed the death sentences, connects the same structure with the Territorial Defense Forces? But that's not all. I will now read a passage from the Heraldic Committee's opinion. I would like to remind you that the Heraldic Commission is sitting with the Minister of Home Affairs, with Minister Brudziński: In the opinion of the committee, the argument put forward by the MON for accepting an eagle with the Sign of Poland Fighting, which emphasizes that it is a symbol of the inherited traditions of the Polish state and the Home Army, as well as the cursed soldiers, does not indicate the peculiarities of the Territorial Defence Army. Mrs. Marshal! Since I've paid attention earlier to the absence of the Minister who has come here graciously, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like an extra minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u317	Please, half a minute. And the Minister is already in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u318	Yes, very good. [[Late.]] He's late, but it's good he's here. The Heraldic Commission reiterates that the Sign of Poland Fighting is a emblem with a specific semantic message, strictly timed. It was not a sign of the Polish Armed Forces, which fought under their historic military eagles both in the country and after they left the underground. For these reasons, the Heraldic Commission considers that it is not appropriate for the designer to introduce the Polish Sign Fighting for the Eagle of the Territorial Defence Army. Finally: The surprising statement of the MON that the traditions of national defence are different from the traditions that inherit the Territorial Defence Army, in a way that depreciates the war effort of this formation. Her soldiers suffered unimaginable losses at the hands of invaders in 1939. because they served in territorial units of territorial defence. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are things and there are things that should be outside the political dispute. Military signs, Polish troops should be outside the political dispute. Gentlemen of the PiS... [[Voice from the room: One minute's up.]] ...the PiS ministers have made it not so that today the Territorial Defence Army is part of a political dispute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u319	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u320	And that's the biggest problem. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u321	And please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sure you don't need that kind of emotion here, so I'm calling for silence. [[Need, need.]] The sign of Poland Fighting on the uniforms of soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army will certainly be a great honor for this formation. I am sure that this will mobilize for even more intensive work and effective training. Of course, during the committee meeting there was a rather extensive discussion on this subject due to the negative opinion of the Heraldic Commission. We hope that this will never cause the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army to be negatively perceived by this. However, the Kukiz15 will take a positive view of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u323	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Although this is a small amendment, it concerns a matter of great importance for many people, both combatants fighting under the Sign of Poland Fighting for an independent homeland, their families and descendants of those who died in this fight, as well as citizens serving today in the newly established Territorial Defence Forces. This law gives the symbol of Poland Fighting Territorial Defence, a symbol of the hope of regaining independence and freedom, a symbol for which thousands of Poles gave their lives, i.e. the holy symbol. While the use of the image of an eagle sitting on a shield of amazons accompanying a Polish soldier since 1815 is obvious, the appearance on the shield of the Sign of Poland Fighting raises legitimate controversy. In the justification of the project we can read that the use in the image of the Eagle and the flag of the Sign of Poland Fighting emphasizes the fact that defending the homeland is a matter and a duty of all citizens of the Republic of Poland. True, defending the homeland is the duty of all citizens, but how does the Sign of the Fighting Poland say about it? During World War II, this symbol was intended to comfort the people of the occupied state, to show that among ordinary citizens who were not actively fighting the invaders, there was a resistance movement seeking to regain independence. Like I said, it was a symbol of hope and heroes fighting for independence. Then, in the justification of the project, we come across information about the public consultations conducted with the Kombatant organizations associating soldiers of the National Army and Warsaw insurgents and associations dealing with state and military symbolism. As we learn from the further content, the combatant environments, which have passed on their traditions to the Territorial Defence Army, supported the project. At this point, it is worth looking at the manipulation and wicked behavior that the designers have committed towards the veterans of World War II. When on 28 June 2017, the former Minister of National Defence announced the takeover by WOT Command of the tradition of the Home Army General Command, Michał Dworczyk, then State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence, informed that the authorities of the World Association of National Army Soldiers accepted the use of the Polish Sign Fighting by the Territorial Defence Army. This is true, although according to the information provided by Mr Tadeusz Filipkowski's spokesperson, this decision was accompanied by lively discussions among veterans. However, in the justification of the project there is also a discussion with the Kombatant organizations which bring together Warsaw insurgents and associations dealing with state and military symbolism. This is where I mentioned earlier the wickedness and manipulation of the designer. On 28 June 2017, the Warsaw Uprising Union had no information about the acquisition of the symbol of Poland Fighting planned by the Ministry of Defence. It was only 2 days later that the union received a letter asking for an opinion on the proposal to amend the law on the signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Moreover, the document includes a request for urgent consultations and an instruction that if the Warsaw Insurgents Union fails to provide an answer to the Ministry by 7 July, it will consider that the insurgents have accepted the project. In the opinion of the Poselski Club, such treatment of the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising is unacceptable. We believe that top-down recognition of the lack of an answer, whose deadline was grossly short, for accepting the project is not an abuse, but an expression of total arrogance and disrespect for the fallen and fighting for independence of Poland's heroes. The urgency applied in the case of a law which does not require rapid proceding is without object. These are, of course, procedural issues, but in the case of an ideological law relating to higher values, procedural issues, the way in which the law was adopted, whether there has been extensive consultation with all the parties directly involved without unnecessary sharing of these environments, are becoming tangible. Perhaps the situation was a prostration of the resentment of the former Minister of National Defence and the leadership of the PiS towards the Warsaw Insurgents' Union resulting from opposition to the Smolensk appeal. I was unable to reach the position of the last of the groups consulted in the explanatory memorandum, i.e. to associations dealing with national and military symbolism, but at this point I would like to recall the opinion of the Heraldic Commission. For the use of the symbol of Poland Fighting in the sign of the Army of Territorial Defence, the committee reacted negatively, because the sign of Poland Fighting is the emblem with a specific semantic message, strictly marked in time. The Modern Posel Club shares this opinion. We believe that today the symbol of Poland Fighting is abused. His axiological foundations are being destroyed. Legendary anchor often found on vulgar clothing and aggressively behaved citizens... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Modern Club is likely to hold off on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u325	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PSL Club - ED will for obvious reasons vote against this usurpation in this law, which is, as is actually everything that PiS does in the area of history, either usurpation or forgery of history, or both. We are guided by the arguments of the veterans, which, to put it mildly, in this matter - it has already been said, I will not repeat myself, because time is limited - they are divided, and are also subjected to various pressures, manipulations by the ruling only right party, as this party is customary. The opinion of the Heraldic Commission on this issue is also clear. It is simply that there is no connection between the National Army and the Territorial Defence Forces, once called - fortunately this is already the past - Macierewicz militias. But so to speak, the entry of these troops into politics, involvement in the PiS Jubles and in the PiS hece is completely clear, unambiguous. These troops failed when we had to save people in Drysk when those two Girls Girls died. You weren't there, heroes. These troops failed with all kinds of relief actions. But they behave very well on Smolensk manifestations when they worship the fallen, and in fact the people who died in an airplane accident, as a result of the sloppyness of various kinds of people, but certainly not the government of Tusk and President Komorowski. These troops have failed in many other situations and areas. I would very much ask that you do not abuse or stick a beautiful symbol of Poland Fighting, an anchor of the Home Army to this institution. The National Army was one of the strongest resistance movements in occupied by the Nazis of Europe and the National Army recorded one of the most beautiful chapters of heroic history of Poland when there was no chance of winning independence. The National Army has written a huge intellectual chapter, secret teaching, publishing houses, the National Army has trained, former universities. I don't really understand what this has to do with what it has to do with those practicing in the Podwarszaws woods, what it has to do with these people. I know the PiS would love to have an army of their own. This is a toy of all dictatorships. Dictatorships love waving, slamming heels, crawling caterpillars, they love all kinds of parades. I'd just like to ask you not to stick the symbols of the Home Army to this. Gentlemen, a little shame. A little shame, a little distance. The National Army has written too beautiful a story in our history, too much has been done for Poland to become the subject of the manipulation and oratory performances of Mrs.Siakowski. Mrs. Sarkowska invites you to the ecumenical congress because she has revealed a great love for Protestants. I think at the Second Vatican Council... I don't remember, but I don't think she was alive at the time, I don't really know, but I probably don't, just because she wasn't at the council... But if she were, I'm sure she was on the ecumenical committee with this brilliant repost when you stepped on the ground of Martin Luther to perform. So that I would ask Mrs.Siarkowska to take care of ecumenia, to know, as you can see, everything, and leave the Polish army in peace, because it is a symbol of parody of Polish effort and Polish defence, just as the symbol of parody and parody of the army was Mr. Macierewicz, who really took great credit, and I think that in Moscow they are preparing another star for him. For these reasons, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats will vote against. And I encourage that to happen to other clubs that haven't made a decision, and they're just holding back. What does it mean to hold back? Detention is a lack of decision. The Member is to decide, not to hold back. I encourage other clubs to vote against this PiS propagandaist as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u327	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, I'm closing the list. [[Yes, I do. May I?]] [[Corrigendum.]] In the procedure of correction, please, Mrs Siarkowska. One minute. But I would very much like to ask that this be a corrigendum, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u328	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What can I tell you, Mr Niesiołowski, after such a poisonous speech here? First of all, you need to have some melissa, and second of all, you need to take care of butterflies, because I think you're still a lot short of butterflies on historical issues. I would also like to remind you that contrary to the lies that you gave from this speaker, the legacy, the traditions of the Home Army Headquarters have been handed over by the World Union of National Army Soldiers just to the Territorial Defence Forces. That's what happened no matter what you think. You obviously did not grow up to this heritage, whose name is the National Army and whose name is the Polish Underground State. Thank you very much. [[Just weigh your words a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u329	Thank you, Member. It wasn't exactly a corrigendum. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u330	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, from this point of view, I would like to say that the great shame for PiS is that it was the former Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, who here in the Seym was often praised by you as the best Minister of National Defence after 1989, who unfortunately committed a shameful procedure related to the amendment of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, what public consultation? After all, the Minister of National Defence sends the draft amendment to the Kombatantian environments for consultation after the announcement, without any previous meetings, tells them immediately and quickly to give an opinion, and yet with a great historical error, which is not in accordance with the order of 1943, concerning the letter P, which is included in the anchor mark, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The sign of Poland Fighting. I have a question: Why didn't the Heraldic Commission's proposal to accept the Eagle mark worn by the National Defence troops fighting in the 1939 defence war be accepted? [[Voice from the room: Time.]] It is the Heraldic Commission that is the greatest authority when it comes to what symbols are worn in our country and awarded.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u331	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u332	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u333	Please, Mr Michał Jach, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u334	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The signs of the Armed Forces are always symbols, which in all armies are a cause for pride, a reason for cultivating traditions, cultivating memories of the greatest heroes, of the most important organizations. It is on these symbols that the morale of the army is built, it is on these symbols that the willingness of soldiers to give up the greatest treasure of their own, life, is built. And we may disagree here, ladies and gentlemen, but these words, the words so gross that fell from this platform, are really, I don't know if there's a reason to be ashamed or sad that we're taking part in this show. [[I'm afraid time's up.]] This is extremely sad for me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, how can this be said that the Armed Forces, which in all parliaments are the subject of taboos...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u335	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u336	...that you don't argue about, that you fight for, that all the political forces... [[Voice from the room: The subject of taboo and vis-?-vis.]] ...they try to speak in one tone, in our parliament they cause...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u337	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u338	...as outrageous words as those found in some of our colleagues' statements today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u339	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! He was just teaching here, talking about scandalous words. Of course, the question is a little pointless, because the PiS is just always trying to lie to history, trying to recreate history. I am just wondering why so many shoes, why such an attitude of infallibility, because if we are talking about the tradition of the Sign of Poland Fighting, then I apologize very much, but Antoni Macierewicz and Poland Fighting are really two different things, unless PiS thinks that it is simply an heir of Poland Fighting, the Home Army, which is of course nonsense. [[Heir to Prussian.]] A question for the Minister. Minister, aren't you ashamed of these shoes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The one you're showing me? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed amendment provides for the introduction in the case of the Territorial Defence Army of symbolism of the type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. At this point, the Ministry of National Defence should be thanked for, firstly, strengthening the country's defence capacity by organising this formation, and secondly, due respect for it, which is expressed in this initiative. The introduction in this formation of the appropriate symbolism of the type of Armed Forces puts it on its due position. It is worth noting that the use of the Sign of Poland Fighting emphasizes the fact that this formation refers to heritage, to the tradition of the heroes of the Polish Underground State, the Home Army and the cursed soldiers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It so happens that on 22 April I had the honour to take part in the first oath in Warmia and Mazury the 3rd Brigade of Territorial Defence, which is being formed in my voivodeship. And, ladies and gentlemen, I was proud to have been to this ceremony. I've run out of friends from the Platform and the Modern. After the ceremony, soldiers in Polish uniform came to me in an eagle hat and asked why politicians of the Polish and Modern Poland insulted them. They asked why you insulted them by calling them the PiS army. They are Poles who want to work for the local community, want to work for Poland. They're proud to wear a Polish uniform. Why are you insulting people in uniform? Why are you doing this? What hurts? As you can see, you're a minister. There is no Minister Macierewicz, there is a Polish soldier. I feel like we should finally start thinking in Polish rather than party terms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u345	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Melak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Voice from the room: Creme de la creme.]] The Civic Platform was able to disarm the Polish army. She got rid of the troops and we were disarmed. When territorial defence troops are now forming, they take over symbols and signs that gave so much pride in the history of Poland, you attack them. For what? Don't you love Poland? Can you only destroy everything? [[And you're Poland?]] Yes, I am Polish, I love Poland. [[Voice from the room: We don't love PiS.]] I don't know how you do it, that you hate the army. All of you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u347	Please, last question, Mr Czesław Mrozek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this regard, in the speech of my club colleague, Mr Tomczyk, our position has been very clear and clear. This formation on the achievements, i.e. the Territorial Defence Army, should earn the symbol, which is the Sign of Poland Fighting. I would like to address the charges raised in this dispute debate. Yeah, everything you touch, I'm talking about PiS, you're turning into a dispute. The Armed Forces Signals Act. The amendment of this law never gave rise to any doubt. Under your rule, your actions always lead you to a dispute. If you ask why there is a dispute in this matter, then the answer is clear: for you cannot do it otherwise. [[Voice from the room: You're the opposition.]] You guys are one big conflict, a fight and a mess. Antoni Macierewicz is no longer a minister, but the spirit of Antoni Macierewicz in this formation is sewn up. [[Lucky for you.]] There's chaos, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The mess and fall of the Polish Army. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u349	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence of Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honestly, I'm afraid to think of the spirit of the hash in the ranks of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u351	But don't be afraid of our spirit. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: I hope it's not Jaruzelski's ghost... [[You're just talking about the Platform. What do you take to hate the Civic Platform so much?]] ...because it was you who followed his urn with the ashes at the funeral in Powązki. Minister, I'm asking you to be modest, too. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: You praised the gene under heaven. Wojciech Jaruzelski, former Deputy Minister of National Defence. [[Why don't you love the Polish Army so much?]] As I understand it, Jaruzelski's spirit in the Platform is forever alive. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And like Peterowicz...]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few lines, a few lines... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Don't insult the parliamentarians, just say what they have to say.]] I ask you to remain calm, please, all Members of this House, to remain calm. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: I once showed a gesture like that. You, too, Mr... [[I think you deserved a reduction in your salary.]] Mr... Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Squeeze and it'll be okay. Minister and Members... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister and Members... Please, Minister, do not provoke Members. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Members, please remain calm and speak on the matter in hand. [[There's no way to provoke...]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Your marshal, but it works both ways. That's why I'm asking the Minister to remain calm. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Your marshal, with all due respect and great sympathy for your marshal... We're not talking about Jaruzelski today. We're talking about symbols. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: You did not interfere when the Government of Law and Justice and Members of Law and Justice were insulted by representatives of the so-called. Total. So I'm sorry... [[Voice from the room: Maybe now.]] [[I'm gonna take your vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So a few things that would be worth explaining right now. I'm scared... [[Don't be afraid.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be afraid.]] ...that these forces, among which Jaruzelski's spirit is eternally alive, will also want to pick up the insurgent anchor, which is in the symbol of the special forces unit in Lublin. Because they also have a special army anchor on their emblem. [[Applause]] And who gave it to you? It was given by the Minister of National Defence in 2014 and as a lively then Law and Justice was in opposition. Who? Of course, Thomas Semoniak. And who was the vice minister? Well, of course, Czesław Mroczek. It was then that in 2014 the specialists from Lublin received a general on their shoulder... [[They've earned it.]] Are you sure you're what you're saying? Of course you do, because they're respectable soldiers, just like the soldiers of the Territorial Defense Army, but you don't understand, and you probably won't understand for a long, long time. Nor do you understand that by your obstruction activities that have been carried out over the last two years, among others. In the Committee on National Defence, but not only, there is no way to say today that the Pomeranian Voivodeship, where there was a terrible disaster, was not the Territorial Defence Army in 2017. Because you are fully aware, you are aware that the creation of the Territorial Defence Army in this voivodship began in 2018, 1 January. And you know that, but of course you're lyingly spreading information that doesn't have anything to do with reality. Now for the facts. You also know about the two documents I presented at the National Defence Committee meeting, so if you don't mind, if you'll excuse me, I'll read these two letters. You sent one to Professor Dr. Hab. Leszek Żukowski, President of the World Union of National Army Soldiers: I am pleased to inform you that on 10 May 2017 the Bureau of the General Board of the World Association of National Army Soldiers unanimously accepted the request to place the WOT Eagle of Fighting Poland on the shield. [[Applause]] We welcome the declaration of reference to the tradition of the Home Army and its Main Command as a force representing the fight of the whole nation for freedom and independence of our homeland, a struggle uniting all the patriotic forces led together by our citizens regardless of their beliefs and political views. We are convinced that the WOT soldiers will refer to the traditions of their predecessors from the Home Army and deepen them. I'll say it again. This is the position of the World Union of National Army Soldiers. And the second letter - The High Chamber must be aware that it has affected the Minister of National Defence, General Wiesław Kukula - regarding the expression of an opinion on the position by the Army of Territorial Defence of the Polish Mark Fighting on the exploratory badge. This letter was signed by Jan Oldakowski, director of the Warsaw Uprising Museum: I kindly inform you that the Warsaw Uprising Museum supports this initiative. The sign of Poland Fighting is especially important for us, so that it is promoted with dignity by people who identify with values of insurgents, for whom a secure free homeland is the highest good. This has become one of the priorities of the Warsaw Uprising Museum for us. I believe that the anchor placed on an exploratory badge of the military army's uniform is a symbolic continuation of the sending of Warsaw insurgents. That's it. That's it. If you don't understand, then I don't know what can speak to your consciences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Czesław Mroczyek. [[Voice from the room: What corrigendum?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has become some kind of manner and principle that the ministers of this government, the deputy ministers of this government, instead of the preparation of content, present some hatred here, attack Members. It would be better if you were prepared and were able to explain the reasons for the government's position than attacking Members of the opposition. As far as the Territorial Defence Army is concerned, I would like to say this to you: you did not create this formation. The territorial defense forces were there. You have brought only controversy to the functioning of this formation. As for the involvement of these troops, the achievements so far, I would like to remind you that when there was a great need in Pomerania, these troops were not there. You're saying they weren't in Pomerania, right? [[Voice from the room: Because there wasn't even...]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum.]] Volunteer firefighters can travel from one voivodeship to help the endangered in another voivodship, and the military can't move? That's the kind of army you build? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u353	Rapporteur for the committee Mrs Siarkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions that have been formulated... [[But there were no questions for you.]] ...in the debate on the amendment of the Armed Forces Marks Act, I would like to clarify a few points. With regard to Mr Darkman's last words, I would like to say to him that the Territorial Defence Forces are primarily dedicated to defending on-site, and therefore they operate locally. [[But you work globally, once on this side, once on that side.]] In this voivodship where there was an air trumpet, in which there was a tragedy, there were no troops. It wasn't because you didn't form the Army, the Territorial Defense Army, during the rule period in which you were in power, to function in peace. Those were just records, theoretical records that worked in case of war. Something that really... And it is known that a tool that is not prepared in the event of war cannot be used efficiently at a time when it is necessary. What is more, High Izbo, I would like to appeal to your Members that we do not politicise this matter, because this is really not a party matter. It is not that the Territorial Defence Forces, which are created today, are created only for the purposes of this government. Territorial Defence is a territorial component of the Armed Forces and will remain one, even if power changes. Neither are the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army involved in any way politically, and the state, by making such accusations against these soldiers, is simply insulting them. It is simply something terrible, like those young people who are deeply involved and whose love for their homeland finds its practical expression in their military commitment, as they may feel at this moment. It's just horrible that you're politicizing this case. Moreover, as I said, the Territorial Defence Forces are a territorial component of the Armed Forces. The National Army was also such a territorial component. Today, the Territorial Defence Army inherits the tradition of the Home Army and this is not a political decision in any way. This decision is the result of the efforts of the World Union of National Army Soldiers for many years. Efforts which were also done to the state at the time when the state ruled, for example at the time when Mr Bronisław Komorowski was Minister of National Defence. After all, I quoted a passage from the letter from the President of the World Association of National Army Soldiers to the Minister of National Defence Bronisław Komorowski from 2000. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it was also you who tried - inefficiently, but tried - to create territorial defence at the end of the Civil Platform's term of office in 2014. So why are you politicising this issue today? It really doesn't serve national interests. This debate should be substantive. As well as the substantive issue is the creation of a new type of Armed Forces. And the country is politicizing this issue. This is an act to the detriment of our homeland, because it simply cannot be summed up differently. I call for merhology, I call for us to be able to accept together this heritage which is offered to us by the previous generation, which the previous generation is giving us today through the World Union of National Army Soldiers. It conveys the traditions of the Home Army Headquarters to the Territorial Defence Forces, and along with the transfer of these traditions comes signs, identification marks of the Polish Underground State and the Home Army. Such a sign is the symbol of the Warring Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u355	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity of the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator (prints Nos 2460 and 2476). I would like to ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee on the draft parliamentary bill amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The project entered the Sejm on 13 April 2018. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 20 April the above draft law for first reading in the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity. The first reading of the committee took place on 30 April. The draft envisages a revision of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2th Act, giving it the wording, which shows that the salary of a the remuneration of the Undersecretary of State established on the basis of the provisions on the remuneration of managers of state positions, excluding the allowance for service of years, which consequently means a 20% reduction in the abovementioned remuneration. At the same time, the project assumes that financial resources will remain unchanged to cover expenditure incurred in the implementation of the mandate in the country and will amount to 25% the remuneration of the Under-Secretary of State, established on the basis of the rules on remuneration of managers of state positions, excluding the allowance for service of years. The draft law is linked to social expectations regarding the salaries of Members and Senators. [[Voice from the hall: With prizes.]] The project has a positive social and financial impact. The revenue of the state budget for reducing parliamentary and senatorial salaries... [[Voice from the room: Just don't steal!]] ...will increase annually by about PLN 13 million. The project assumed that the Act would enter into force on the first day of the month following the announcement. However, there is a danger that such a short term could pose a problem in calculating the salaries of Members and Senators if it were only a few days. The Commission therefore accepted that the Act would enter into force on the first day of the second month following the month of publication. [[Voice from the room: So you saved yourself another salary.]] The Commission, after first reading and considering this proposal at its meeting on 30 April, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you. But I'd ask you to calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u357	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u358	Let me tell you calmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u359	Please allow me... Please, Madame, it is a difficult role to play, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Allow me, Mrs... Look, I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u360	Don't worry about my role. [[Voice from the room: There were no volunteers?]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's my honor to introduce...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u361	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u362	I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. The proposed proposal envisages a 20% reduction in Members' and Senators' salaries. This seems to be a significant amount, and we will certainly all feel it, but it must be acknowledged that parliamentarians' salaries are not among the lowest... [[Voice from the hall: What about ministers?]] ...and even after this salary has been reduced, they still allow us to live a decent life. At the meeting... [[Voice from the room: What about Minister Gowin?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u363	Please, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u364	We are aware that many Members and Senators could earn much more in their previous profession, consistent with qualifications and competences. But I believe that most of us are not here for money. During the committee meeting, but not only because in the media statements, the opposition accused us of greed. That's an interesting theory, because this bill contradicts it. If that were the case, we would not be proposing the solutions contained in this law. On the other hand, it is very difficult for the Members of the opposition to part with these 20% remuneration and although they are strongly opposed to this reduction, they do not want to express it formally and they are already announcing that they will abstain from voting, that they will not take part in the vote. [[Right-hand side, please.]] One member of the opposition, expressing his indignation at the proposed law, said that such a reduction is unacceptable because we are chosen people. [[Voice from the hall: Who said that?]] He only forgot that being a chosen nation is not only an honor and privilege, but above all a service and responsibility. And if society today feels this way and says that it is necessary to reduce the salaries of Members and Senators, then it is important to consider why. I think that this is mainly influenced by the quality of public debate, the behaviour of Members. We remember these scenes: throwing a bill from here, from the Seymary, using questions to discuss not about, as well as walking on chairs, throwing papers or turning out lights during committee meetings. It is also important to block the Seym Speaker at the end of 2016. This aggression and this aggressive behaviour do not go unnoticed by voters, society, and if that is their will, it must be respected. [[Voice from the room: The role of the President.]] And although each of us probably wants to make more money, the most important thing is the welfare of our homeland. Thus, repeating the words of Fr. Piotr Skarga: After forgetting his benefits, we should... [[Voice from the hall: Or maybe Fr. Rydzyka?]] ...to serve her with dignity and respect. [[Voice from the room: Comedy.]] The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u366	Your marshal, that was unacceptable, I think you're aware of the behavior...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u367	Please, I'm really asking for peace in the courtroom. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u368	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I'm very serious... Could you, as a matter of urgency, turn to me first? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very serious about this debate. The first thought that came to my mind when I heard Mr. Kaczyński with Mr. Terletki, when they announced these reductions, said that now it would be more modest, it reminded me of the saying from the Polish People's Republic, you probably remember that the working class drinks champagne and eats caviar with the mouth of its representatives. Today we have a very similar situation, because today Jarosław Kaczyński will live more modestly, reducing the salaries of Members of the opposition, because not to himself, because not to his colleagues from PiS, not to the class of masters from PiS, because after all, will Mrs Szydło have a reduced salary? No. [[Voice from the room: No.]] And will Mr. Brudziński, who recently became famous for the pacification of students on the boulevards in Szczecin, have a reduced salary? No. [[Voice from the room: No.]] And will Mr. Who provoked the conflict over the IPN bill have a reduced salary? No, he won't have a reduced salary. Mr. Brejza, who has discovered the scale of pathology, will have a reduced salary. And Mrs. Kempa... Do any of you even know what Mrs. Kempa's been doing for six months? [[Voice from the hall: Yes, bonuses.]] She won't have a reduced salary because they're gentlemen because they're special. The opposition will have a reduced salary. Why? Because Jarosław Kaczyński decided to live a modest life. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And because he has decided to live a modest life, he will live a modest life, lowering the salary of the Members of the opposition. This is a printout made today at the Shaser hospital. There are 170 people waiting for an appointment with the orthopedist, and the first appointment is in September. The average visit time is 235 days. And how long did Mr. Kaczyński wait for his visit? [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] If we live more modestly, how about, Mr. Kaczyński, a line for the Shasers? [[Applause]] I know that you are the father of the nation, almost like the emperor of Capuchinsky. His pillows were also worn so his short legs wouldn't look funny. But if you want to live more modestly, how about a line to the Shaser like an ordinary man? How about those 160 people waiting in line? Can he wait 235 days for an appointment? Then maybe someone will believe that you want to live a humble life. And maybe at least a captain to carry bullets, not a general right away. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's cheating. It's a whip for the opposition. [[Applause]] We're humble people, we'll be fine. I once said from this speaker: if you have to work for free - perhaps prophetically - we will work. Because we really represent Poles here and they are waiting for our vote, and you want to lower our salaries by bringing Parliament to the facade of this institution... After all, Mr. Terletki and Mr. Kaczyński are not here, and they are the authors of this bill. How do they treat you? They didn't even want to come here. You want to bring Parliament to the facade because you're afraid of democracy, and it's our duty to defend this democracy. Even if they take our wages to zero, I know we're gonna do it. There's a second here that needs to be given to a man named Mr. Terleck. I'll tell you that I sympathize with the head of the club, because the fact that Mr. Terlecki announced this bill, defended this bill, was the face of this bill, talked about the fact that it was a PR trick, and then he turned himself out of the bill, because his law does not apply, his, Mrs. Mazurek - the home budget intact - their bill does not apply... [[Applause]] How would people feel if Mr Kukiza suggested that we lower the salaries of the Members, but Kukiz didn't? Or how would the Platform politicians feel if Schetyna said, "We're lowering Members' salaries, but Schetyna doesn't?" It's just embarrassment. That's how they treat you. That says a lot about you, Mr. Terlecki. This is just the tip of the iceberg, these bonuses that are the real reason for this debate, this is the tip of the iceberg. There's gonna be a big deal about what's going on in the companies. Because do you know that Mrs. Goss, whose credit, as we know, Mr. Kaczyński, is no longer on the board of directors of two and a half thousand, only eight thousand.? And did you know that? The previous president of the port in Szczecin made 25 thousand, and the present, such a gentleman, the equivalent of Mrs. Goss, Mr. Brudziński, one of many, because not the only one, is currently earning 70,000.? And the predecessor from that raggedy platform made 25 grand. The pay scandal is just beginning because you guys are throwing yourself into public money without even knowing it, and you're gonna choke on it. We'll live modestly, and you'll live all this, this wealth, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This public money will just choke on you and the Poles will thank you for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u369	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz club15, unfortunately, I will be disgusted to present my position on this matter, because the so-called one. I do not see here any of the Marshals of the Sejm, whose wages will not be touched - it is also interesting... Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is what I'm looking at... I thought there'd be more pissants. I don't know if you've seen the 550th anniversary of parliamentarianism in the Seym halls. This is the end of parliamentarians. Do you know why this is the end of parliamentarians? Because you come down to zero by yourself, you all come down to zero by yourselves. [[Applause]] Well, a Member of the Republic of Poland is also a dignity, but dignity is not just a presence. This is a way of working in committees, this is a way of working on laws, and I'll tell you that just as this Sejm is working, we shouldn't get $1,000. We literally shouldn't get $1,000. zł, because I ask: For what? A populist bill has been made. Today, the Member presents it and says that the opposition is greedy. And if tomorrow morning Mr Kaczyński wakes up and says that Members are making too little money and they need to be paid 100%, I ask: What will you say then? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But there was such a Member.]] Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say: unfortunately, the justification of the bill, in which it says that it is socially expected... Ladies and gentlemen, society expects a rule of law, a just state, a low-cost state and an improvement in the standard of living of people. I ask myself: What was the power - and the former, and the one present - in these areas for this society doing? Nothing. Anybody she's been chasing could've been digging. I don't want to throw myself, I'm not gonna talk about that 20% at all. or 25%, because, ladies and gentlemen, there's another sneaky case. Let me say this: Members have fallen into the third tax scale since September, so you will pay, and I will certainly pay less taxes. Mr Kaczyński will not lose anything, because if he counts his pension, he has been on the third scale for six months now, which means he will not lose even a zloty at this stage. And to make it even more funny, I'm gonna say that the Undersecretary of State is going to be a civilian employee, so no one's gonna know that in a minute, civil servants are gonna get a raise and you're gonna get your pay back. And then what are you gonna say? I'm asking you what you're gonna say then. So let me be brief and firm: on behalf of all Kukiza, I declare that we will go to meetings for free, for reimbursement, but change the electoral order [[Applause]] One that's going to change this country, which is JOWs, or at least mixed ordination. This country is rotting because this party was eating you. If you are so brave and claim that the opposition is greedy, then agree to a secret vote. Today in the Sejm, in order to eliminate this particular partyocracy, secret ballots should be put in place. There would be no more party disciplines, no more punishments, no more crap, which is because Members today do not have the courage to vote according to their conscience, that is seen in committees. Ladies and gentlemen, respect yourselves, because if you don't respect yourselves, no one will respect you. So... [[Voice from the room: To the opposition.]] No, I'm addressing everyone, and I'm addressing you. Mrs Szydlek, did you believe what you said? Because I'm having second thoughts. I'd like to see your vote if you voted in a secret vote. So, Commissioner, let's change our ordination and go all the way. for free, for diets, for commuting expenses, for delegations, for what we pay for the actual costs. Mr Piotrowicz something sad at the moment. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's be specific, because we're... Otherwise, we would support all of this if the proposal were fair - i.e. we need to change the pay grid from the President through ministers, Members of the House, etc. - if it made sense. Because today we have such a situation that Koz Koz near Bielsko-Biała earns more than the President of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Yeah, yeah, it's almost like that. [[That's not the way it is!]] If we counted it, we would. So that, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no such situation. I understand that Mr Kaczyński's proposal was very populist, but it just shows that there is no parliamentarianism in this room, [[♪ The bell ♪]] One man decides. This is a dictation of one person. [[Voice from the room: And he's not even there.]] It is and will be until we change the electoral order to JOW-owska. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u371	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President Kaczyński! Salaries are not charity. Since you have worked on the state degree only in the Polish People's Republic, I explain: wages are not alms, but are related to the responsibility and competences necessary for the pursuit of the profession. If you don't treat Members and Senators like puppets who have to appeal to the leader of the party, press the right button - and that's how you can possibly treat, but also should not, your party subordinates from the PiS, somehow I feel sorry for you, colleagues, although you have prepared this fate for yourself - we must as a society ensure that the selection of people deciding on the future of the country is appropriate, that Members and Ministers are not chosen because of their former merits or their faithful submission to the fanaberia of the President of the Party. President Kaczyński, this project is absolutely cynical and is trying in a hypocritical way to cover the fiscal crime controlled by you from the back seat of the government of puppets and greedy PiS activists on the ground. And that is the true and only reason for this bill. Let me remind you: the bonuses of the ministers themselves in the PiS government only in 2017 amounted to over PLN 2 million, in the President's Office - over PLN 3 million. But it's nothing compared to the pissants on the ground. Mr Paweł Śliwa, Councilman of PiS from Małopolska - PLN 1 million... [[Voice from the room: Over.]] ... Krzysztof Skóra, Councilman of PIS from Lower Silesia - 1300 thousand. zł... [[Try harder.]] ... Zdzisław Filip, Councilman of PiS from Małopolska - 500 thousand. zł, Martyna Wojciechowska, councilwoman of PiS from Mazowsze - 400,000. zł. And I could mention it for a few more hours, but perhaps in the near future, the Marshal of the Sejm would have turned off my microphone forever during this term of office and imposed a financial penalty for insulting the President. Making money is good, greed is bad. Your greed is evil. Once again, public officials' salaries cannot be alms, and normal, worthy and equivalent to the competences and responsibilities of wages cannot be replaced by available maybachs, empathizing with 11-person guards and three limos for a few million zlotys or flying planes for several hundred million. The compensation cannot be an asphalt road to the homestead or a drug of pseudo-religion, applause, ribbon cutting, confetti throwing and handshaking to personalities. Both parliamentarian and minister, prime minister or president are normal employees hired by society to do work. Appropriate remuneration should be paid for this work, not substitution benefits. Let's lower our wages, and there'll only be people in politics like a liar. Macierewicz with his mistrals for a dollar and the revelation of the Smolensk explosions, like Mrs Pawłowicz, who, in breaking her vows, openly confesses to misrepresentation of the constitution. We cannot allow further Sovietisation of the country in which the salary will be replaced by the privileges granted by the first secretary of the party leading the force of the nation, by you, Mr Kaczyński, as the Sejm of the Brightest Republic. But you're just a usurper, and no clichés, no banging from that speaker or the Goebbels' public media propaganda is gonna change that. You can lower our salary to the lowest national, you can even take it from us completely. We will fight you and PiS for our Poland anyway. We'll never, never, ever give up. Besides, wishing you well, I think the PiS should be delegalized. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u373	Thank you. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u374	Dear Marshal! High Seym! This is the amendment of the Modern Club. I check with the PIS: reducing the salary to 0 PLN by the end of this term and, from the next term of office, three times the average salary for Members. We'll see. If you want it more modestly, you vote for it, it won't be a problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u375	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL-UED Club, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are here today to proceed on a bill that has nothing to do with thinking about the state and the system of remuneration in the state. This is only about putting out a media fire caused by the disclosure of the system of direct payments to dudes in the pathological government, I repeat, a pathological system of direct payments to ministers and high officials. It was introduced quietly only when the PiS withdrew twice under the pressure of public opinion from the proposed raises laws. The cost of your loose conduct goes back to the millions of zlotys you spend lightly on your party activists. You have no problem rewarding your own - only those with the PiS card. You don't spare a penny here. There's no money for protesting mothers, there's no money for ministers, and they are. You want to introduce reductions for Members and Senators, while your former politicians sail in luxury on the seats of the presidents of the Treasury companies with multi-million payouts and briefings. You call one, then the other, then the third, and then they take the checks. There has never been such an embezzlement of the institution of the state. You canceled the civil service competitions because you don't have the right staff. The principle: mediocre, but faithful in your performance has been perfected and applied in every possible place on an ongoing basis. Why don't you make reductions for ministers who got 70,000. PLN per year allowance, second salary, or a support system for ministers, which is not enough for the first one? Interestingly, your outstanding specialists on ministerial seats were later dismissed by the president. They were such professionals, such specialists, that these awards just belonged to them, and then they were canceled, but they took the money. Why don't you make the voivods, the vice-voivods pay their money back... [[Voice from the hall: How's Bury?]] How's Senator Rooster? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He's fine.]] ...who don't know how to work in the administration, but are they your loyal party officers? The answer is simple: a huge scandal broke out, your hypocrisy was exposed, something had to be done. And you did: a reduction for Members, for Senators, a continuous financial penalty for Members of the opposition. You're introducing economic punishments for Members because you're afraid of the truth. You gag the opposition's mouth, but that won't help you. And it's quite difficult to understand why PiS might be paid by self-government officials who haven't had a raise in over a dozen years, received no reward and had nothing to do with it. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of our club, I propose an amendment whereby the salary of the Member will be equal to the average salary for the work. We say, "I'm checking." If you want to show that fulfilling the mandate of a Member and a Senator is a true service to your country, you will support our amendment. If not, everyone will see that all you meant was to save yourself from falling poll support posts. In addition, this law cannot be amended, but we will introduce a bill that will introduce reductions for secretaries, Undersecretaries of State, Voivodeships and Vice-Votes also by 20%. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u377	Hello again. I invite Mr Jack Wilk, a non-member, to the speaker. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! In your request, I will not worry about your role and will therefore propose such an amendment: let's reduce wages by 105%. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Let the Members not only not earn anything, but also pay for the opportunity to communicate with the State's chieftain. [[Yes, sir, for the president.]] It'll be a real honor. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The amount of hypocrisy and stupidity on the occasion of this law exceeds all EU standards, but the worst part is that it reaches to the lowest instincts, and the effect will be exactly the opposite to the intended one when it comes to the good of the state. There are two classic models of reward for politicians. One is that you don't pay a politician at all for being a politician and the other is that you pay him very well. I am in favour of this first model, only that in the first model we need such a situation, when in society we have a strong middle class, so developed that there is a part of people who, having proven that they have made a contribution, and having a certain wealth, is able to devote themselves to the common interests of political activity, that is, the common good. We are not at this stage, among others. By your socialist policy of robbing the middle class. As socialism progresses, the class struggle grows, and the middle class is destroyed by you most. So there is a second model in which politicians are rewarded well. Why reward them well? It's not to be bragging about it, it's to be politicians. In Poland, a professional, a good expert earns 20, or at least 15 thousand. zł. You want to cut down on what's been going on so far, and the truth is that as a result of these policies, people who are unable to make more than a few thousand, which is the electoral lists, will mostly be filled with mediocre. Is this the kind of country you want? That's it, right? Really? Is that where you're going with this? Ladies and gentlemen! We have to tell the public openly, frankly: yes, ministers, secretaries, Undersecretaries of State earn too little, they have to increase their wages by 100%. so that experts and experts go to the government, do not apply the opposite mechanism. There is also a mechanism that can be used e.g. in relation to Members. I propose a mechanism, which is that the starting base - let's say that what is now, times twice - will be valued every year, adding the level of economic growth and subtracting the level of inflation. In this way, politicians, Members, will be motivated to pursue a policy that promotes economic growth and the lowest possible inflation. There are these kinds of mechanisms. But what you're doing is pure populism and socialism. I remember the first speech by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. He was talking about false consciousness. This is probably the best example of what is happening in this case, in the case of this law - this is the false awareness that the welfare of citizens will be built in the grandfather's country. You have to decide either you want government professionals or you want a grandfather's government and a poor country. That's the choice. And basing on low instincts of people who are happy to be taken away from politicians, that's shortsighted politics, that's stupidity, that's hurting the state. And I will personally vote against this precisely because I care about a well-managed country, not a poor government, not just any government, but a well-managed country. I'm going to give you one more example at the end, because there's a lot of talk about Treasury companies. There's a mechanism that no one's talking about, and I'm going to try to publicize, it's non-compete agreements. People are often fired from companies of the State Treasury. Competition agreements are signed with them, e.g. for 2 years, this applies to remuneration for 2 years in advance. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. And so much money is wasted. Let's cut the number of ministries by half, let's talk about halving the number of Members, so money will be the same. But let's try to get the authorities to go to the government, which is exactly the opposite of what you want. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u379	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-associated Member, to give his position.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Chief Jarosław Kaczyński made his proposal as a lively Marshal of Piłsudski. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It reminds me here, like the Sanitary Prime Minister Felicjan Sławoj Składkowski... [[Say it again, because it sounds nice.]] I'll say it again. It reminds me of how the Sanitary Prime Minister Felicjan Sławoj Składkowski described the scenes of his resignation from the position of Prime Minister. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't bother me. You're taking my time. As Felicjan Sławoj Składkowski described, he was summoned by a marshal... I was summoned by a marshal - writes Składkowski - and he speaks to me in short soldier's words: tomorrow you will resign from the position of Prime Minister. What was I supposed to do? I slammed my heels - says Składkowski - and as a faithful woman, slightly fucking, I went to my boxing. [[Applause]] And that is the reaction of my friends from PiS is just like Felicjana Sławoj Składkowski. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know that you do not see this sea of ridicule and embarrassment in which you put yourselves and Parliament. I mean, it's already... I don't know if it was some element of state reform, if we were discussing how much the president, ministers, employees of the Treasury companies, what the administration is supposed to look like, but it's not - it's obvious that in order to hide the bounty you did this number, and yet here you appeal to us, to modesty, you say that the point is that you don't go to power for money. Yeah, but you don't go to power either, so... Because the pathologies of power are different, it is not only an interest in material benefits themselves, but also e.g. to have such a position as the Tsar, God, when he conducts himself to men like lead soldiers. This may even be more dangerous than wanting to get rich or getting a good wage. So maybe I'd change these pathologies first. Jachnik's colleague said that the source of this pathology, which makes one person stand up in the morning and decide something, and the next day everyone is fully convinced to implement even the most ridiculous ideas, is a faulty electoral system, which makes you all need to listen, otherwise you will not be included on the electoral list and the end - after the parliamentary mandate. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you're talking about how society wants it, it's 75%. Poles want one-mandate electoral districts, but you're against it. Let's do a referendum, ask what the Poles want. This law, ladies and gentlemen, from all sides - but mostly I appeal to the Members of the PiS to withdraw from this foolishness - compromises Parliament, compromises Members, compromises you first of all that you are able to do so. You're quietly saying something completely different, and here you're presenting your position and you're embarrassing yourselves, because in a way, you're showing that if someone admits that they're actually doing nothing here, that they should give up their salary, that his salary isn't worth his work, that's it. It's just a total disgrace to the Sejm and just stupidity. Please, I urge you to vote against this bill. I will, of course, vote against. Thank you. And don't imitate that Felician Sławoj Składkowski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u381	Would any of your fellow Members like to add themselves to the list of people asking questions in this point? I can't see. So I close the list. [[There's another one.]] Please sign up, Mr... [[Me too.]] ...and that concludes the writing. We're starting to ask questions. The first question will be asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is one very important table missing in the explanatory memorandum of this law, which is actually the main basis of this law. I'm going to read it, at least in part, because it would take a very, very long time to read all the names on this table. Mr Piotr Gliński - 72.1 thousands. zł second salary - sorry, prizes - Mr.Jarosław Gowin - 65 thousand. zł... [[It's not enough for the first one.]] ...Mr Morawiecki - 75 thousand. PLN, Mr Błaszczak - the most rewarded second salary - 82 thousand. zł etc., etc. This table is the true justification of this law. You want to cover the greed, the arrogance, the greed of those people at all costs. But in this bill, you've come to the conclusion that it's better to punish everyone. You prefer to punish yourselves rather than those who have plucked public money with handfuls, because those ministers I have read, and there are many more, you do not intend to punish. So I ask you, what are the repercussions for those you now suffer for? Mr Piotrowicz, you are having such a great time here. What do you think will happen to Mr. Błaszczak now? What will be the punishment for draining the public budget? What will be the punishment for the light hand? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did he take a second salary every month? Think about what you're doing because you're defending people who don't have a public penny. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u383	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u384	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Called by PiS to the Prime Minister's office, Ms Beata Szydło started a scandal by giving out prizes, which can also be called second salaries, additional salaries, in the amount of approx. 2 million PLN. This, of course, must be added to the awards in the companies of the State Treasury. This is another dozen million zlotys. Therefore, in this bill, as the head of the PiS club Mr.Ryszard Terlecki stated, the actions of the PiS are purely populist. The reduction in parliamentarians' salary is intended to distract public attention from the scandals around your party, which went to the elections with the slogans of humility and honesty. Ladies and gentlemen, where are these passwords today? Today you say, "We deserve these prizes." Is that humility and honesty? No, it's pride and greed. You have made a Polish machine to make money for your own, and we, the opposition, and soon local government, want to punish you for exposing all these issues. You can try to intimidate us, you can take away our wages, you can punish us financially, we can even work for free, but you can't shut our mouths. We will continue to show Poles the truth about this despicable change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u385	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u386	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Szydleko, a representative of the applicants, mentioned in her speech the allegations of greed towards PiS politicians. It is precisely this greed that I wanted to ask the Member. In October 2017, the Sejm adopted the act on compensation for the lost coal depot. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice forgot and did not include more than 7 thousand in this bill. Widows and orphans from the dead miners and 12,000. pensioners. However, it was in 2017 that your greed and greed for money did not prevent the ministers of the Government of Law and Justice from granting themselves 1.5 million zlotys of money prizes. Among the ministers were also those who in 2015 cared so much about the fate of the mining brothers. I would like to ask the applicant: Did all the ministers of the Government of Law and Justice press this magic button to return the transfer and transfer the money to the state budget? Will you be equally concerned with the fate of widows, mining orphans and pensioners and appeal to Prime Minister Morawiecki to compensate them for their lost right to deputies? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u387	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy? In that case, the next question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act will not cover the scandals involving people associated with the PiS, the multi-million-dollar spending of the state on foundations and associations, friends of the President and his people. That bubble's already broken. Undue awards and bonuses for ministers are only a small part of your private life, but she clearly showed what is important to you - not Poles and Poles, but your pocket. The pocket is the most important. Examples can be multiplied. What about the reprivatization scandal, the company Silver, the Polish National Foundation and the unfortunate billboards, millions allocated to your husband's school, Deputy Prime Minister Szydło - I don't know if you know that - a leak of money from the SKOKs? And from the most important reports another scandal, that is Bartłomiej Misiewicz and training in the Polish Armed Group. Yes, PLN 0.5 million spent on training of employees, for which the invoice is issued by the association without experience, which transfers money to another account, among others. responsible for an exhibition that was not organized. So where's the money? The president of this association is, of course, the husband of the former head of Mr. Misiewicz, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When he was an apothecary in Łomianki. [[Applause]] [[The apothecary's assistant.]] When will you stop this private circus financed by the money of Poles, including disabled people and pensioners? Shame on you. You lie to Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u389	Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS's success promotion takes many forms. We had the best economy, our diplomacy was getting off our knees, we were done extorting. All you have to do is steal - it's out of this podium. We are in debt as never before, our foreign policy is one big failure, in robbing the Polish state you have achieved a real championship. 113,700,000. PLN per year. That's the sum of the bonuses in all the ministries of the PiS government for last year. In 2017, 21 constitutional ministers received awards - from 65 thousand. to 82,000, 12 ministers of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister - from 36 900 to 59 400, and naturally Prime Minister Beata Szydło. This show tonight is pure hypocrisy. This was admitted by Marshal Terlecki in my hometown of Radom. He himself stated that the sum totals did not look good, so PiS decided to lower the salary of Members and Senators. Today you sprinkle your heads with ashes, but is grief for sins sincere and will there be a strong resolution for improvement? Did... [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: It will not work.]] ...will only end up in public? Is it fair to be polled? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or do you just have to be honest? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u391	Thank you. Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u392	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you're there in the PiS. You realize that we can fight you. for free, because for me, the fall of your corrupt, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think that's the way it's gonna be. The government's gonna be like a million dollars in gold. So I'm gonna say a few words about this... [[Read what it means to be corrupt.]] Well, there's a government, Mr. Sergeant, that transfers his second salary to his account. That's what I meant. Explained? Then I'll say a few words about my amendment. She assumes the fulfillment of the words of your president, or maximum modesty, the modesty appropriate to the transgressions you have committed, in the form of payment of the second salary. And this modesty is to last until the end of this term, because the parliamentary club from which the womb was called into life is such a greedy, greedy and wayward government, no longer morally entitled to get from the Treasury of the State of broken gold. Therefore, until the end of this term of office, the political class for what you did in the bonus event, and not only, in all its financial, gigantic, ongoing, event, must pay. The second part of this amendment is the proposal to link the salaries of parliamentarians, but since the new parliamentary term, with an average salary. This will amount to three times that remuneration, which will be an adequate compensation and an appropriate parliamentary remuneration. I just want to pick up one thing. This reduction to the opposition won't affect so much. She's gonna affect the ruling team because you're gonna make less money, and that's gonna make you more money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] susceptible to all kinds of corruption, because it will come to you with business because the money is on your side and not against the opposition. So this is a gigantic corruption ground, unfortunately, which will surely lose you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u393	Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u394	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! First it's a quote. [[Mr Szydło replays the speech from his smartphone: Yes, indeed, ministers, vice-ministers in the Government of Law and Justice received awards... And that money just belonged to them, belonged to them, belonged to them...]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Quote. Did they belong? Beata Szydło transferred $65,000 to herself. Zł, and President Kaczyński what did he do? He called her off as Prime Minister because she wasn't fit. Did they belong? Even President Kaczyński says, "Well, they didn't belong. Antoni Macierewicz - 70,000. zł. Did they belong? He's not a minister anymore. For almost three years he embarrassed Poland, and his, as to what to call it, friend Misiewicz is [[Joy in the Chamber]] involved in corruption. [[Applause]] And he was rewarded, too. Mateusz Morawiecki - 75 thousand. Probably for signing up for his wife just before the election so people wouldn't know how much money he made at the banks when he sold them to foreign investors. Zbigniew Ziobro - 72 thousand. Probably because it destroys Polish independent judiciary with you, Mr Piotrowicz, but in the process it pursues doctors who honestly tried to cure his father. But he can't believe it until today. It's been going on for years. And he's trying to put doctors in jail. He took a reward for that. Anna Zalewska - 75 thousand. For the mess in Polish education? For destroying Polish education? Jarosław Gowin got at least 65. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe that's why he can't last till the first one. Well, they gave him the least. And Mariusz. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Błaszczak - 82. Mostly, but you know, wearing slippers in the afternoon, making tea, sweetening this tea, then the supplement has to be, because it's due. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I will not even talk about Szyszka - he is no longer a minister - compromise in the European Union, just laughter and drama for Poland - 70,000. And you, Members of the PiS, will be paid down for what these people have done and how they have destroyed, compromised Poland and themselves and the parliament in which we work. [[Applause]] [[Time.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u395	Mr Marek Owa, the modern club, please, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We already know that this money belonged to you. No one will beat you in greed. I wish there was a marshal named Richard Terletki. He doesn't cut his salary by law, and the salary has been paid - PLN 307 224 per year. This is PLN 25 602 per month in an account. [[Scandal!]] Scandal. Jarosław Kaczyński - PLN 214 981 56 per month, on average PLN 17 915 per month. Stanisław Piotrowicz - 217 253 zł... [[Oh, where did you get this?]] ... 18 104 a month. Data for 2016, no fresher. There isn't, of course. here in Mateusz Morawiecki's report. He made nearly PLN 30 million when he was president of the bank, and what? He's ashamed to show his fortune, hide it, prescribe it for someone. Something unbelievable. Parliamentarians should be paid for their jobs. A month ago, I spoke to Marshal Kuchciński, whose salary is also intact, asking how Mr Kaczyński works, if he was at a meeting of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, which he is a member. For a month... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Sejm's office is unable to determine this... [[They're counting their presence.]] ...or at least once he showed up. Ladies and gentlemen, in a private company... [[It's hard to find.]] That's the kind of guy they'd throw away. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u397	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will ask another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u398	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One summary that comes to mind when I listen to the whole debate and look at this bill from the beginning is: the horse is guilty, the goat is hanged. Ministers took full bonuses, but in return, they're gonna get raises, and the MPs are picking up a double-penny memo, so they're gonna get paid in return. It's nothing more than the revenge of a little vindictive man, [[Applause]] Because a normal person doesn't do that. After the Constitutional Court, after the courts, it was simply time to destroy and marginalize another democratic institution of our country's life - this is Parliament. Taking away our immunities, punishing us for any offenses, but of course only Members of the opposition, reducing the number of meetings, closing the Sejm for citizens. The Seym is not yours. The Seym is a house of democracy, it's civic. And now the only way to reduce Members' salaries is to make sure that all intelligent people who have self-esteem and self-esteem find another job and don't bother with you here. But I have bad news for you: we will work here and for 0 PLN, and for the lowest national. And the reward for us will be to overthrow your governments and this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What you're doing in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u399	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Hypocrisy, greed, pride and disrespect for Poles, for those Poles for whom you had a slogan in pre-election marketing: it is enough not to steal. If it weren't for these awards, these people wouldn't be suffering here in the hallway for three weeks. There'd be money. [[They've been in pain for eight years.]] [[And you're fine in every system.]] It is unfortunately the failure of the entire parliament to pay Members, to reduce this salary. I'm wondering what kind of punishment you've prepared if the daylight comes to see the next scam, the big deal. Have you prepared such a repertoire? Because remember that in the fall Poles, the same Poles you cheated in the previous campaign, will remember this in the local elections. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They remember the Owl tapes.]] [[Yes, it was best to complain to the solidarityists.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u401	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You should ask yourself if you've deliberately made such a peek-a-boo. Remember one thing: do not listen to President Kaczyński, because you will starve to death if he continues in this direction. I think this shows your hypocrisy and your greed, because so far the salaries of Members and Senators have been aligned with the salaries of Undersecretaries of State. What are you doing? You're shutting the Undersecretaries of State out of the cut, you're only doing it for the Members. You leave money for your own people. And I can see these taboons of Members who will try to move to these benches. I have this proposition: Isn't it necessary to change the fact that this government is growing to this size, that it's going to be government benches, and that those who aren't going to get on government benches to sit here? I assure you, this will be the right proportion to your greed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u403	Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions for the rapporteur, Mrs Szydko. I wanted to ask you if you consulted with other representatives of your club, among others. sitting today, I do not know why only in the last row, and not here in the first, Mr Schreiber and with Mr Horalus, who were the faces of the increase in Members' salaries. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] By the way, I will take this opportunity to ask you directly. Maybe they'd be willing to go out and say how they're going to vote on it and answer the question, how is it that in one case you can have two, and that's exactly opposite, different opinions? Because it's, I'm not hiding, it's a very big play, and I'm waiting for the result of the vote on this. I also wanted to ask the rapporteur, and at the same time the representative of the club who presented the position of the club, why did she play two roles? Wasn't there any willingness to present this project on behalf of the PiS club today from the platform, or is there any concern? Because there are very few of you here today, and it is very interesting that when you are and you have the opportunity to spend public funds, you spend them eagerly and the queue sets up for this money, and when you have to talk about a reduction in wages, there are no more those willing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u405	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u406	Ladies and gentlemen! We're out of April. Legally, in April, all councillors must submit their property statements by the end of April. We already know today that in these statements which are about to be public, because you can hold them for a while, but at the end of May they will actually become public, we will see such miracles that even Horale and Schreiber did not dream of it. Not a $1,000 raise, 2, 5. We're dealing with situations like this that, as the board of directors makes 2,000, now you make 8,000. As in companies, it was made, let's say, 20,000. Or 15,000, that makes 80, 90. I know there's a lot of your friends out there. Mr Schreiber is very pleased about this. My question to Mrs Szybko, who took on this burden, is this. It's a shame that Terlecki announces and then puts that weight on your shoulders, he doesn't even come by himself. I know you're not complaining that you're a brave woman, and you're gonna work here with us for free. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Aren't you afraid that as soon as the second bonus and raise scandal comes out in May, you're really gonna have to stand here and save the whole formation and lower our pay, because not to your colleagues, but to us, for example. is it really up to this national average? Aren't you afraid of that? [[No.]] What will happen at the end of May, Commissioner, at the end of May? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u407	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're making fun of serious people. There used to be this footage on TV, already pretty a few years ago: Puppet lords. Unfortunately, he showed how the Polish Parliament works. Nothing's changed since those years. There's still a ruler and there's puppets. Now you're sitting so politely because there's no ruler to pull those strings up front. It's like he's telling you to dance here, but he's just saying that you're voting according to his will. So I'm telling you to do the president's will, who had good ideas about how he was in opposition. Twice he wanted to liquidate political offices. This would give us much more savings than liquidation or a reduction in Members' wages. I encourage you to return to this idea. You can really use that money in a different way. You're so greedy for the trough, you have to call it that if President Kaczyński had invented that only people who are called Kaczynski would be on the ones before the next term, then you would have registered as Kaczynski, I'm sure. So think about what you're gonna do. It is weak not even to have an opinion and to be a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I don't know if you deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u409	Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and Gentlemen of Law and Justice! I think this is the last time I can say that to you. Money and positions - so you and your governments can be characterized. That's what everyone's really been talking about, these awards, these positions, everything you admit to yourself about these corrupt practices, but that's not what I'd like to say. So far, what your bosses, Jarosław Kaczyński, Marshal Kuchciński, have done was turn this House into a facade. Today, with all the debate you've been trying to hide this money scandal, you've turned this House into a cabaret. Look, you're listening to all the speeches. It doesn't bother us. Everyone's laughing at you, all of you. All performances by Kukiz.15, Platform, Modern and PSL. Mr Wolf, Members, all of you are laughing at you. Laughter kills even the strongest political institutions and is the first element that brings down. This is such a ridiculous debate, because two years ago, less than two years ago, two Members sitting there filed a bill on increases for Members. All of you, with any of the Members of the Law and Justice, have spoken in the cockroaches, have spoken about the need to increase Members' salaries. Now, like those proverbial rams, you will go and vote as he tells you. Jarosław Kaczyński. [[But how pleased you are.]] They're sitting on heels here, they're not happy. I understand, Mrs Kaczyński, that if you were told by Jarosław Kaczyński that there is a 200% increase, you would come here and say: yes, 200%, we are in favour of this solution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Congratulations. Jarosław Kaczyński has stripped you of your dignity, you simply cease to be messengers. [[We're sorry for your loss.]] I really feel for you from the bottom of my heart. He disdained you, and he's gonna kick you out after you're no longer needed as those puppets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u411	Thank you. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a non-remunerated Member, I could selfishly not speak at all, but no, I will speak, I have an opinion on this. In any economic activity, please countries, costs are sought, including wages, but this is done after an analysis of labour, productivity, analysis of whether the labour costs are indeed too high compared to the work done. Such an analysis was never carried out by the authors of this project, never carried out. This project was created as a result of the discovery, the disclosure of very high prizes awarded to each other quietly, in a secret way, defended afterwards. Prizes are honors, prizes are thanks for your work. Why secretly and secretly? Ladies and gentlemen, this project is an apogee of the finesse of perverseness and ridicule of the importance of remuneration in every area. In order to reverse the anger of Poles and gain advantages in depressing polls, this bill was prepared. Shame on the whole of Europe. And where are the creators of this project? Where are the defensive speeches? They're probably watching secretly, in some hiding place, what's going on in this room, and whether the polls are going up or down. You can't do that. It's ridiculous to the limit of stamina. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am ashamed that, in this Parliament, such people are taking such a sneaky, nasty way to change Members' salaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u413	And last question, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just don't steal - the Prime Minister screamed so many times, and 77 times she used CASA and all the staff to fly to her house. Cost - PLN 3.5 million of taxpayers' money. It is enough not to steal - you screamed Prime Minister Szydło, and she awarded illegally prizes which were not prizes. Besides, in the case of these awards that Kaczyński, Mr Kaczyński, speaks of, that they should pay back, this is not giving up. It's taking money out of the budget, because even if someone gave it to Caritasu, it's not giving it away. This is stealing from taxpayers. And the Prime Minister screamed that all she had to do was not steal. It is enough not to steal - you screamed Prime Minister Szydło, and faithful and mostly meticulous PiS officers, including councillors, receive millions of salaries in companies of the Treasury. I wanted to congratulate Mrs Szydleko because Mrs Szydleko behaved very modestly. She said here that she only reduced all of us by 20%. If Mrs Szydło had taken the example from Mrs Szydło, she would have done so, she would have tabled such an amendment as the Modern one. However, perhaps Mrs Szyłko will improve and will do so. And I already know why PiS so much [[♪ The bell ♪]] He hated and didn't like you, Professor Bartoszewski. Well, Professor Bartoszewski had a motto: It's worth being decent. You guys don't tolerate it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u415	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would Mrs Halina Szydleko, rapporteur of the committee, like to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. [[I don't believe it.]] [[Amendment to the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, it is difficult to exclaim any question from this immeasurable aggression. When I said that society, voters evaluate our debate, this level of aggression, I meant what happened today, among other things. during my speech, as well as the fact that your former marshal, who was leading the deliberations, did not react to this kind of behavior. Thank you. [[We think it is also hypocrisy, Mrs President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u417	Mrs. Member! I'm not in favour of this bill, even though you didn't direct those words to me. I have my opinion on this, but I can't say it because I'm holding a sitting. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Social Policy and Family Committee on the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws (prints No. 2463 and 2487). I ask Elizabeth Duda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u418	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 25 April 2018 referred the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity and certain other laws to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The Commission, at its meeting yesterday, at first reading, considered the above. Parliamentary draft law from print No. 2463. I would like to remind you that the Act of 25 June 1999 on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity governs the rules for granting sickness benefits and the method for calculating them and lays down rules for documenting the right to these benefits, while the Act of 15 May 2015 amends the abovementioned. the law and introduces changes in the form and mode of issuing temporary incapacity certificates. In addition to the existing form of medical certification, so-called. on paper, on printing ZUS ZLA it introduces a new electronic form, e-ZLA, which goes directly to the Social Insurance Institution from 1 January 2016. According to the Act for the envisaged transitional period until 30 June this year. both forms of temporary incapacity certificates may be used: paper and electronic. By listening to the demands of the medical community, as well as by conducting analyses on the functioning of the solutions, especially taking into account all the voices, we believe that more time should be given to implement new solutions to enable all users of the electronic system, in particular doctors, to prepare for this change. It will certainly be an additional time to implement solutions allowing medical staff to issue medical sick leave on behalf of their physician, which will allow doctors to focus on treatment and diagnosis. It is therefore proposed to amend the Act of 15 May 2015 to extend the transitional period, so-called. two-track issue of medical certificates on temporary incapacity for work, until 30 November 2018 In the course of the work in committee, the Legislative Bureau notified a change concerning the first part of the title of the project. The Act amending the Act was cited as amended by the Act amending the Act, etc. As a last resort, the entire title of the proposed law is: the Act amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has adopted the proposed amendment of the law unanimously and, after first reading and considering the project on 7 May, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u419	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Elizabeth Duda to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u420	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws contained in print No 2463. The introduction of the possibility of issuing medical certificates in electronic form improves the efficiency of the handling process, significantly reduces the time needed to complete the medical certificate, increases the ability to carry out checks, automatically informs the payers of the certificates issued to the insured, but also, which is very important, limits the possibility of fraud. There is no turning back from computerization in health care, but preparation for this change should be given more time to all users of the new e-ZLA system. The planned changes may be introduced, among others. the possibility for doctors to issue electronic redundancies, e.g. Assistants. The draft law is not covered by European Union law, it does not impose a financial burden on either the State or local government units. It should be noted that the proposed regulation has a positive social impact. Taking into account the demands, the proposed amendment to the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws, consisting of extending the period of two-track medical certificates, is most appropriate. High Izbo! In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposed bill with the proposed amendment to the title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u421	Thank you, Member. I would ask Mr Rajmund Miller to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity and certain other laws, print No 2463. The amendment of the Act concerns the Act of 15 May 2015, in which the printing of ZUS ZLA - a new electronic form of medical certificate on temporary incapacity to work due to illness, hospital stay or the need to take care of a sick family member - was introduced alongside the existing form of medical certificate. The Act provides for a transitional period during which both forms of certificate may be used. This period is from 1 January 2016 to 30 June 2018. Only the electronic form of the certificate shall apply after this period. The amendment we are talking about extends the transitional period until 30 November 2018. Everything would be fine, except there were 2 years to put in place this system, while the information we received at the committee's meeting shows that only 1/4 of the medical offices are currently using electronic form for 2 years, ladies and gentlemen. You've set up four months to make 75%. Medical offices have adapted to this requirement. At this rate, there's a fear that you won't make it. I also did not get an answer to the question I asked during the committee meeting, whether you examined how the employers were prepared. In what percentage of employers who employ less than 5 people and are not obliged to register in the electronic certification system are prepared to introduce this system? We will, of course, vote in favour of extending this period, although at this rate of work we do not very much believe that you will not come forward with the next amendment, for another extension of the transitional period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u423	Thank you very much. Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz club15 a position on the Act amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity and certain other laws. Kukiz Club15 supports the extension of the deadline for the entry into force of electronic sick leave. At the same time, we would like to stress that many institutions continue to signal that they have these problems, and it seems to us that in a few months little can change, and if the implementation of this system looks like the implementation of the CEPiK system, we need to know that the effects will be much greater, because they will hit patients directly. However, as I said before, we support the extension of the deadline for the entry into force of electronic sick leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u425	Thank you very much, Madam President, for putting forward your position well. Mrs Monica Rosa, please take a stand on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u426	Thank you. Mrs. Marshalkini! Ladies and gentlemen! Club Parliamentary Modern supports this bill. But we'd like to know if you've done an audit because we've got 25%. doctor's offices, which use this system, 75% does not use it, so I would like to know at which stage the implementation of the system is 75% The offices. Do these 4 months result from the fact that you have checked it, do you know at what stage this procedure is at, or is the idea of these 4 months simply taken over? I understand that because we are a society that is ageing, in some sense the medical staff is getting older, and there is probably a need for additional training, assistance, support. Is this even the kind of thing that's supposed to happen? Is there a problem with the fact that doctors who are older, who have not grown up in this digital age, have a problem with the implementation of this system and are there any support for them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u427	Thank you very much. With regard to the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, Mr Jarubas made a written statement, as did Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, on behalf of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle. Would any of you like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek, but I do not see you from the Civic Platform. Therefore, Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome. Will one minute be enough, Member? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u428	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The parliamentary bill amending the act on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and some other laws is a good project. I just have a question for the Minister: What percentage has the e-ZLA system been put in place today? Is the six-month two-track period sufficient to fully implement this system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u429	I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki to answer the questions asked at this point. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for this parliamentary initiative. It can be said that it is an expression of the assessment of this process of implementation of the right, modern, out of all reasonable means of documenting the incapacity for work of insured persons. We've had more than two years of transition. This was mentioned during the discussion. During the 2 years of the transitional period, it was possible to issue medical certificates on incapacity to work both in the traditional, paper and in the new electronic version. It can be said that the pace of implementation of the electronic medical release version is not satisfactory or satisfactory. This resulted in the decision to extend the transitional period, which was originally to last until the end of December 2017... sorry, until the end of June 2018. In fact, as far as this process is concerned, I will refer to a discussion that also took place in the High House when extending the transitional period by six months. We took off at the end of December with a state of affairs of 3%. At the end of December 2017, 3% of doctors used this modern electronic form of medical certificates, as I said. Today, according to data at the end of March 2018 already more than 16% , exactly 16.69% Medical certificates, I stress, are issued in electronic form. The number of doctors using this modern form of documenting incapacity for work, as was mentioned during the discussion, is already around 25%. This is the result of a very intense, intensive work carried out by the Social Insurance Institution, the work of promoting a new form of medical certificates, very multi-directional work. In order to make it easier for doctors to use this new form of documenting incapacity for work, the Social Insurance Institution had to conduct interviews with producers of office applications, which doctors had already used in their medical practices so that these remodeled office applications could use the electronic version of sick leave. Other actions undertaken by the Social Insurance Institution include the provision of a platform for electronic services of the Social Insurance Institution to doctors in order to use profiles created for the purpose of applying this new form of incapacity certificates. Another convenience introduced by the Social Insurance Institution since 1 December 2017 is to provide doctors free of charge with the possibility of certification, i.e. signing electronic medical certificates specially generated by the certificate of the Social Insurance Institution. In addition, you could add training addressed to doctors conducting their medical practices in different parts of our country. I would also like to say that this promotion has also been done by the Minister of Health, for which I would like to thank you very warmly. As I said, despite the really hard work, the pace of implementation of the new form of medical certificates is not satisfactory. Further action is needed. These activities include the appointment of a medical assistant who would make it easier for doctors to issue electronic medical certificates. The relevant bill is already at a stage of highly advanced work in the Council of Ministers. As I said, with regard to the degree of preparation of employers for the implementation of this new form of medical certificates, we do not see any negative positions on the part of employers. It can be said that employers are interested in this new way of documenting incapacity for work as early as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u431	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed novel is, as it were, a determinant of the time. Today, in the age of the universal Internet, although very slowly, we are entering the world of digitalization. In medicine, in fact, medical bureaucracy. Electronic sick leave is a great ease, at the same time convenience. When an electronic signature (which was a problem because not everyone has it) is not required, electronic release will become widespread. It will be a great ease for the employee, because he will no longer have to deliver paper release to his employer. At the same time, for the employer it will be a form of control over the employee. The availability of electronic exemptions will be so much easier that it is enough to establish a profile on the Electronic Services Platform (PUE) ZUS. It is also worth considering the extension of the platform so that in the future it is not necessary to send or submit an application in the case of persons engaged in an economic activity who apply for an allowance after the termination of employment or insurance, or in the case of employees to whom the Social Security Office, and not the employer, pays sickness benefits. It's the melody of the future. Today, however, it must be made clear that the new way of writing the waivers will, as a rule, be a sealing of the system. Until now, the seven-day deadline for delivering the traditional exemption has been an opportunity to avoid controls, especially in the case of short-term redundancies. In case of doubt, the employer will be able to ask the ZUS to check the employee immediately. The Social Security Office will also be able to carry out such checks on its own initiative. We also accept with understanding the extension of the withdrawal period until November. It will be time for better preparation of the necessary web applications. It will also be time to prepare medical offices. We will support any project that reduces bureaucracy and gives doctors the opportunity to devote more time to the patient and not to fill out the paperwork, while stressing that a comprehensive reform of the health system is still needed. We put on the table the ideas contained in our programme, the Health Pact, at the same time we count on a substantive discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the amendment of the law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. The draft law provides for an extension of the current period during which doctors, dentists, fitters and older fitters may issue medical certificates in both paper and electronic form. Projectors propose to extend this period by 5 months, from 30 June 2018 to 30 November 2018. This extension, which is already the next one, is intended to allow all persons entitled to issue medical certificates to adapt the equipment of their offices and the software used to issue this document electronically. The Act introducing electronic exemptions on temporary incapacity for work due to illness, hospital stay or the need to take care of a sick family member as evidence in determining the right to benefits and their amount, as the projectors remind, is of May 2015. One of her goals was among others. the reduction of fraud in this area. By extending this period of uniformity in the way these documents are issued, we extend the time when these abuses may occur, i.e. the time during which the ZUS money is lost. However, I have no doubt that applicants are aware of this fact and that this next shift is simply necessary for the system to function smoothly and flawlessly. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u434	As at the second reading, it was submitted to the submitted project... [[Voice from the O.R.: No report.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. In fact, we did not report for this project. We will therefore proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on Central Communication Port (print No 2473). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, the representative of the Government for the Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland, Mr Nicholas Wild, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u435	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law on Central Communication Port prepared by the government, which will enable not only the creation of the Central Communication Port, i.e. a multimodal transport hub, in the heart of Poland, but also the extension of the railway network, to remodel the transport system of the Republic of Poland. We are facing the possibility of creating the largest infrastructure project in the last 30 years. I am counting on support here not only in the context of the bill being prepared, but also in the further stages of the creation of the Central Communication Port, because I deeply believe that the idea of creating the best connected place not only in Poland, but also in our part Europe is deeply in the interests of each of the people of our country regardless of the political sympathies and views presented. Air traffic in the Republic of Poland is constantly growing and since 2010 we are aware that the largest Polish airport, the port of Chopin, will not be able to handle the increasing traffic. However, the construction of the Central Communication Port is not only the construction of the airport, it is also the construction of more than 800 km of new railway routes, it is the creation of an opportunity to reach the port of Solidarity in the time of 2,2,5 hours from the largest cities of Poland. The scale of this project prevents it from being effectively prepared and implemented on the basis of the existing legal order. Therefore, when preparing the bill, we have focused on ensuring the effectiveness of this investment and effective public control of the processes that will consist of it. Section I of the Act sets out the general principles on which the investment process is based. We are aware that the implementation of this project will not take place without problems. This investment is also unprecedented due to its scale. At the turn of May and June we will know the exact results of the localization analysis, which will help us to know the area for construction. From this point on, intensive consultations will begin with residents to develop compromise solutions on the challenge of acquiring land for this investment. We predict that 90% The areas needed for the establishment of the Central Communication Port will be purchased by way of purchase. The negotiations that will start this year will continue until the end of 2019, i.e. over 1.5 years. The Republic will endeavour to ensure that the agreements are as beneficial as possible for the local community. Since we wrote this law in such a way as to get as far away from local communities as possible because of their concerns, although the investment is carried out in the interests of all inhabitants of the Republic of Poland, it must be conducted with respect for the interests of the local community. Section II of the Act is the body part. In the systemic part, the powers of the proxy are extended to the existing regulation and have also been established, the powers of the special purpose company, which will be established under the law, have been specified. Thus, it will be up to the proxy to supervise the strategic assumptions of the project, to prepare draft government strategy papers, to approve management rules, which will bring together several hundred investments in one whole. Finally, the draft provides that the Minister responsible for Transport will carry out his duties with regard to the aviation sector by means of the Secretary of State or Undersecretary of State who is the representative of the Government for the Central Communication Port. On the other hand, the special purpose company established under this Act will be involved in the operational management of this programme. In other words, the company will prepare the programme, ensure that the timetable is respected, manage the real estate generated for this investment, bear the costs of managing these properties and prepare a draft management rules that will shape the method by which the investment will be created. Governance rules are a certain novelty introduced by this law, an element that allows for the coordination of hundreds of projects that will consist of a programme for the construction of the Central Communication Port. Section III of the Act regulates the preparation and implementation of investments. The stage of investment preparation begins with the adoption of a regulation by the Council of Ministers on the basis of which the maximum area covered by environmental research and the maximum area of potential impact of the Act will be designated. This area will be covered by the municipalities and areas necessary for the preparation and implementation of the Central Communication Port. The next stage will be the reservation of the area, which will take place by means of a local act issued by the voivode. In this respect, there will be an extension of the powers of public authorities, an investment freeze. The aim is to ensure that the value of the areas to be covered by the future investment is not unduly increased. The Act also provides for the creation of an objective tool by which we can negotiate with property owners. These are property market expertise prepared by property experts. The aim is to ensure transparency and fair balance of the general interest with the interests of the inhabitants. We will take care of this, and I would like to stress this once again, so that the inhabitants of the areas where the Central Communication Port will be established have the opportunity - if they wish - to continue farming. They will not only obtain a favourable offer, a favourable price, if they are interested in monetary gratification, but will also obtain replacement properties on which, if they wish, they will be able to continue their agricultural activities. A specific feature of the Act is the separation of investments which are defined in the Act as accompanying investments. These are investments which are isolated due to the essential influence and essential importance of their implementation for the implementation of the entire programme, because - never enough repetition - the construction of the Central Communication Port is not only the construction of an intermodal junction in the middle of Poland, but also the construction, reconstruction and remodeling of the collective transport system in the Republic of Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am convinced that it is possible to cooperate in the implementation of this project, which is why I ask for its positive assessment and acceptance in the form proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u436	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law creates a legal and organisational framework for the implementation of investments in the form of the Central Communication Port and broadly understood investments accompanying the Central Communication Port. On 17 March 2017, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers adopted a recommendation for the construction of the Central Communication Port, and on 27 April 2017 the Council of Ministers adopted a regulation on the establishment of a government representative for the Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland - further as a proxy - whose tasks belong inter alia. preparation of investments and supervision of the implementation of investments in the Central Communication Port. On 7 November 2017, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution stating that the measures described in the concept submitted by the representative were in line with the government's policy to prepare the implementation of the investment in the form of the Central Communication Port. Indeed, this is an absolutely historic moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an undertaking which is already known to Europe and to the world, which is an undertaking that Europe and the world are interested in. This is a challenge, it is a task, but it is also a challenge for the Government of Law and Justice, a government that wants strong Poland, better connected with Europe and the world, a government that wants to develop and break communication barriers in the middle of Europe. Through this investment the communication system of Poland will be remodeled. The location decision that the Minister was talking about will be made soon, and we'll know where it's going to be, where it's going to be. However, it is already possible to define this place as a place which the Poles must accept, must be accepted by the inhabitants and should be accepted, because the goal is truly noble. There will be a special purpose company to carry out this task and other companies, because it will probably be necessary to set up other companies as well as investments accompanying this big investment. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a reservation of the area, a very important wording used by the Minister. Let's add directly: land reservation without speculation. Booking an area that won't make any money if you don't know how much money you're gonna buy or buy. We want this investment, in advance we know: very expensive, very important, very necessary, has a national, Polish, European character. Of course, legal equipment is needed for all of this. Indeed, with the present almost no possibility to make such a great investment, that is why we need a law, and that is why we are all here today - although we represent different parliamentary clubs and different political environments - to speak calmly and as well as as possible about this undertaking. The reservation of the area must, of course, have some consequences for people who live near this investment or with the investment itself, but it does not scare us at all, because every great work requires a virtue of patience, every great work simply requires a good recommendation, a good analysis, and hopefully everything that starts to happen during the implementation of the Central Communication Port has made Poland a country, a country in the middle of Europe with another very important instrument for the development of the economy, because this is how we look at the Central Communication Port: it will be an economic development instrument. It won't just be comfort for passengers, it won't just be 800 kilometers of railway line and about a hundred kilometers of roads. This will be a very important instrument in every aspect of the economic development of the Polish state, and this is very important for all of us, I think. The Law and Justice Club strongly advocates the bill and will do its utmost to ensure that this law can be carried out peacefully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] ... I fit in time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u438	All because you're driving. Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Stanisław Żmijan. And by the way, happy birthday to you on your name list. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I submit my position to the Government's draft law on Central Communication Port from Seym printing No 2473. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we read - today the Minister and the President have already repeated this - that the legal regulations contained in this bill are to give an opportunity, and I quote: the remodeling of the transport policy of the state. So we start from the beginning, this time in terms of transport infrastructure. This means nothing more than the continuation of philosophy: Poland started with the elections in October 2015. [[Applause]] Before that date Poland was in ruins, and Poles and Poles remained on their knees. [[For eight years.]] Observing what has been done so far, it is difficult to resist the impression that a concept was first created, to which arguments and analyses are now being adapted. The construction of the Central Communication Port is to be crowned proof that Poland is getting up from its knees. High Seym! The main argument in favour of the release of PLN 40 billion is the 2010 analysis of the capacity depletion of Chopin Airport in Warsaw by 2020, only that since then hundreds of millions of PLN have been invested in the modernisation of this airport, the airport in Modlin was created, all regional ports have been modernised, two new ports in Lublin and Olsztyn have been created. High Izbo! Okęcie Airport is still open for expansion. Some work will be carried out independently of the decision to build a central airport. We could see that at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee in Chopin's port at the previous meeting of the Sejm. An example of the fact that an airport located close to the city centre can develop is Amsterdam and the port, Schiphol airport, which develops at a similar distance from the city center and does not interfere with the complex road system. An alternative to the construction plan of the Central Communication Port may be the Okęcie-Modlin duoport. The airport in Modlin is one of the youngest airports, and is already ranked fourth in the ranking in terms of the number of departing passengers. The communication of both airports by rail and the expansion of Modlin airport, in particular without environmental restrictions, gives the possibility to carry out 50 and 60 million passengers per year at the cost of PLN 6.8 billion, which is much less than the cost of construction of the CPK. It should be remembered that airports in Lublin, Łódź, Radom and Bydgoszcz could be satellite ports for Warsaw. The efficient duoport is a much cheaper and less risky alternative. Examples from abroad show that building such a pier can cause many problems. Berlin-Brandenburg airport: originally planned cost - 2,5 EUR billion, planned to be launched - 2012 It remains under construction until today. Similar to the CPK were plans to build Montreal-Mirabel airport. It was intended to replace an airport close to the city centre. Unfortunately, passengers had different preferences than Canadian politicians. [[Applause]] Today, the cargo port operates there to a fundamental extent. High Seym! Discussion of the Central Communication Port is necessary, but provided that reliable analyses are carried out, even if the preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study takes a lot of money and a lot of time. However, the key is to carefully analyse all possibilities rather than forcefully prove political thesis. For the expected cost of CPK you can buy 300 Pendolino warehouses or build 1 000. km of motorways and highways. In a country where there is still so much to do with transport infrastructure, we need to consider very deeply whether we can afford such an investment. The construction of the Central Communication Port will only be justified if it guarantees the development of Poland's success. Today, on this question, in my club's opinion, the answer is still open, so we will vote against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law on Central Communication Port, print No 2473. In view of this project, there are like three basic things imposed on me. The first is that this project appeared in such a slightly sudden way and it is difficult to respond to all the records that this law presents on 121 pages. However, in such a contrast to what the Minister said, I would like to quote two articles which, as if contradicting what the Minister said, that the government will primarily care about securing the interests of citizens who will be expropriated from their property because of the construction of the Central Communication Port. I will remind you that this is often the work of many generations of people who will now be expropriated. Another provision concerns municipalities which, in my opinion, will have to bear the financial consequences of these solutions, which are included in the project. Chapter 3 of Article 3 Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, I quote: The Celowa Company, with the consent of the Plenipotentiary, may I stress here the word "possibly" - on the basis of agreement with the municipality, cover the costs of drawing up or amending the local spatial development plan to the extent necessary to ensure the coherence of spatial development in connection with the implementation of the Investment. Maybe - that's the record of banksters who don't always keep their word - means they don't have to. The State does not have to bear costs e.g. changes in local spatial planning. The municipalities will therefore have to bear this burden. In view of the fact that the investment, as the Minister said, is about to increase in the coming years, the rapid drafting of these changes will also cost an adequate cost. Here, what the Minister said is unbelievable. But there's still a note in chapter 6 of the article. 61, point 1. He's dealing with expropriation damages. Here I quote: The basis for determining the amount of compensation is the market value of the property. Well, the market value of real estate varies very often - once it can be beneficial, twice - no. And since this is, as I said, the achievement of the entire life of people who will be expropriated, the compensation should be in line with the value of the restoration rather than the market value of the property, because moving to another place of people who lose these properties should give them the opportunity to continue or pursue their activities or live at an unchanged level, as they have lived or carried on their activities so far. However, Kukiz15 considers that such an investment is necessary in order to at least reduce the nuisance that airports are currently causing - mainly airports - because we know that not only the airport is involved - located close to cities. We therefore hope that this project, after being referred to the Committee on Infrastructure, will be refined in such a way as to benefit both the whole nation and the citizens who will bear the consequences of this investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u440	Thank you. I ask you to speak on behalf of Mr Michael Jaros' Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u441	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the government proposal for the Central Communication Port Act, print No 2473. The project concerns the creation of a legal and organisational framework for the implementation of investments in the form of the Central Communication Port, broadly understood accompanying investments, creating a transport system based on the central location of the port. It also concerns other tasks, including investment, revitalization, included in the comprehensive programming and strategy document, which will be developed on the basis of this law. As the project promoters point out, the aim of the project is to build and operate a viable, innovative transport hub that will take place at the top ten of the world's top airports. This is an ambitious goal, if impossible. The Central Communication Port will be like Huta Katowice. After a few years it will turn out that this event was completely economically meaningless, Minister. The new airport is to be built near Warsaw. Although the location is not yet selected, it raises concerns about people living in areas considered as areas for this investment, as evidenced by the fact that the inhabitants of the Baranów municipality will answer questions in a referendum in June about whether they want to be established in their commune of the Central Communication Port. The planned deadline for putting the port into service is winter 2027 and the cost of the investment is estimated by the government at about PLN 35 billion. This is not much less than the deficit of Poland in 2018. However, there are voices that this investment is underestimated, and the construction of the airport itself may cost, instead of the planned 16.19 billion PLN, as stated in the Act, up to 28 billion PLN. According to the draft law, the representative for the Central Communication Port will be responsible for strategic decisions regarding the schedule of investment, its budget or the scope of activities. In addition, a special purpose company will be set up to support the activities of the representative, which will also be entitled to act, inter alia. for the first purchase of real estate and the acquisition and alteration of real estate. However, the expropriation of residents envisaged in the Act raises serious doubts about people living in the areas concerned. Of course, I mean the community of the Aries, like the 120-day deadline that the inhabitants of expropriated properties will have to leave their homes, which is considered to be too short, because three months is relatively little time, given the investment to be completed in 2027. Looking at this big investment, I think building the Central Communication Port is a really big event. We did not have a lot of such big investments in free Poland, and they lead to migration, to movement. They can make very important economic and social solutions, e.g. transfers of people from areas subject to unemployment may take place. But I do not find in this proposal the marks of this type of action in the case of the construction of this Central Communication Port. The PiS must have everything its own. It must have its own tribunal, it must have its own Supreme Court, its own prosecution, its own minister and prosecutor in one, it must also have its own port, an airport, because those that already exist are named. This new one's gonna be called something. Yeah, what do you call it? Given all these factors, but above all economic factors, the modern formation responsible for Poland not only during this period, but above all in the future is in favour of rejecting this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u442	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u443	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are analysing, discussing, presenting positions on behalf of the clubs on a very important point, and we have learned that we will be discussing this today, practically recently, because there has been a change in the agenda and as we have become accustomed to, particularly important, difficult issues, they are attached to the order to be adopted quite quickly, and probably from a mathematical point of view this will happen. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Yes, we agree that this is a very important task. The economic, social, task that can bring great prestige and be a factor in the development of our country. So we read in the explanatory memorandum, so I concluded and felt it, listening to the Minister's speech, which, if we analyze the words, accept them, went to the listener. I think that the draft of this law is logically arranged, divided into sections, is discussed, the indicated period of time. And it would seem that everything should be in favour of the fact that we should all have no doubts and be in favour of what you said to our Committee on Infrastructure, that this is a great challenge for the Government of Law and Justice, for our Polish government, because it is the government that represents our country. But is that what everyone thinks? Minister, we are talking about the fact that it will be a very important region, best communicated, between Łódź, Warsaw and around. What about the rest of Poland? Where's the principle of sustainable development? Is this really such a gigantic task as the undertaking, the way we carry out, the technical difficulties, the values we need right now? As you wish to convince us to the end, if we say that after the adoption of this law negotiations will begin primarily on the definition of the area, the acquisition of ca. $3,000. Ha land? And if these negotiations don't end successfully or there won't be a deal, then what? We're gonna book the 2,000 from the top. Huh? What about these people's opinions? What about local governments? What about the whole field of preparation? Minister, isn't it important what effort has been made: Modlin, Radom, Okęcie, in which, like the Member, one of my previous speakers spoke, is still investing, Łódź? And Krakow's not far from here. I know that the chairman of the committee is calm because Rzeszów is farthest from Warsaw and maybe all this will somehow be connected. So why are we starting the wrong way again? If we were to consider this project at the moment when the Minister would have informed us that we had made preliminary arrangements in the field, we had a guaranteed, pre-arranged area, we had agreements with local governments, we had a guarantee and we had a plan for accompanying investments, so what, the race for the ministry will start again, who can and where can, for what railway line, for the road, for the companies that will do it? How can we be fully convinced that this is an important task? Because each of us would like to have a card as a Pole as well. But at this point in time, is that how it's prepared? The position will be expressed in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u444	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people who are going to ask a question at this point? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. We begin with Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform. But I don't see your MP. Therefore, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u445	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The issue of the construction of the Central Communication Port is another example of gigantic mania and waste, which accompanies PiS inherently from taking over power in Poland. Instead of investing in an existing airport, e.g. In Modlin, the government wants to lay out billions of zlotys for the construction of a new port, which is unknown if it will be a success. Here you can recall the casus of the airport in Berlin. However, the PiS, which is in conflict with self-government policies, does not want to modernise the existing airport, which would save us a lot of money. On this issue it is also worth mentioning the runway in Bialystok. It was thanks to the determination of local politicians that local government officials from Podlaskie Voivodeship managed to obtain funding and this runway will rise. Unfortunately, PiS politicians, the local government of PiS did not want to contribute to this runway. Thanks to the fact that we will have a runway, Bialystok will definitely avoid the costly errors of Radom. Unfortunately, the Central Communication Port has made Podlaskie voivodship even more distant from the airport because of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now we have the nearest airport in Okęc, and it will be the Lambs, so the inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodeship will lose on this shift. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u446	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Central Communication Port project is not preceded by any solid analyses and calculations. How can you, for example? say that 45 km from Baranów to Warsaw will beat faster than 10 km from Okęta? With this money, Minister, you could build a super-light line that connects Okęcie to the center of Warsaw, four times faster to arrive than from there. The development of the airport in Modlin has been blocked. Again, for PLN 60 million, the number of passengers could be doubled to PLN 6 million, because the money that is needed for the new terminal and parking places will be paid for commercial use of this new terminal, and the runways and other infrastructure are there. Missing, I don't know, PLN 100 million to complete the railway link with Warsaw there. So for much less money, you could have multiple increases in passenger service, residents of Warsaw and surroundings, including low budget lines flying from Modlin, the average family can afford to go on vacation, you blocked it, and you're talking about some billions spent on an airport where there are no, so to speak, solid forecasts. It is said that it will operate 50 million passengers in 2027, when for the whole of Poland for 2030 [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's 30 million. That means 30 million for Warsaw, 30 million are expected, so how can one such port... For Warsaw this airport will be a disaster, it will take Warsaw's comfortable airport, located near the city of the airport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u448	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u449	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Would you agree with the Minister's opinion of the Government's Legislature Centre that the government's position as representative of the Central Communication Port in this bill raises constitutional and systemic concerns? The Act provides for the granting of a number of powers of power to a proxy, e.g. The representative shall approve the management rules. Is it true that the draft law does not provide for the possibility to challenge the decisions of a proxy, which consequently infringes the Article. 45 constitutions, if so, why? One more question. Minister, will you agree with the remarks and opinions of the Government's Legislative Centre that, in the absence of a multiannual programme not adopted by the government, this law will be of a blank nature, because it refers to a non-existent legislative act of the Council of Ministers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u450	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u451	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First politically. The Minister has presented to the High House a bill which is in fact intended to make the Minister of Infrastructure incapacitated. Art. 6 provides: the Minister responsible for transport carries out his duties with regard to the Polish Air Navigation Agency and the State Enterprise, and with regard to the supervision of the President of the Civil Aviation Office with the help of a secretary or undersecretary of state who is a proxy, i.e. he will become a minister of excavation. This is an outrage. We're gonna fight for this rule to be removed from the bill. Who will be politically accountable to the House? Plenipotentiary? No. You can't report a vote of distrust against a proxy. And now, substantively. What expertise has been carried out in relation to the Central Communication Port? As the central airport was the subject of an expert study in 2010. You want to build a big airport. Which regional airports do you want to delete? Let me remind you that Polish society spent over PLN 6 billion on the development of these airports. Is this money to be lost? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What if, in a referendum, the people of the Aries commune say no? After all, it is a referendum to be held in June, and you announced that the location would already be there. What about environmental inventory? How can a location be determined if it is not carried out? There could be more questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u452	Mr Artur Gierada, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Nobody's against bold investments... [[The platform is.]] ...but if we spend public money on these investments, we need to know that they will be well implemented, that they will be implemented successfully and that they will be effective later. Here my previous speakers, especially Minister Grabarczyk, President Stanisław Żmijan, spoke about the fact that we do not have proper analyses for this bill. These decisions are, of course, bold decisions, but it is not known whether they are futuristic decisions or whether they are missing the public interest in general. As regards the analysis and establishment of this airport, I have a question for the Minister, why this decision, all the more so because we know that the local society, to say the least, is not pleased that this port will be there, at least a large part of it. I ask, because President Kielce, the city from which I come, has been trying very hard to get the airport to be near Kielce, in Obica, where today more than 400 hectares of land are purchased, and the politicians of Law and Justice have assured that there will be support for this investment in this place, especially in the context of the referendum we had last year, and I would add that this president is being supported by Law and Justice. Minister, if we assume that this investment will come out that Radom Airport will be a spare airport, which is 70 km away from Kielce, and we know that Radom itself is to be pumped over a billion dollars into a temporary solution, and this Radom I wish you would say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what Minister Grabarczyk asked whether other local airports would have a chance to maintain themselves. What about the investment in Obica near Kielce, does she have a chance at realization and validity today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u454	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u455	We would like to quote the words of the song: here for now is the abrasive, but there will be a PiS airport. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] In some sense, from this airport, the PiS has already left, you can say ex ante. Next action from the cycle: hallelujah and forward. You just promised you'd make $26,000. transmission from polling stations. You'll be pulling out of this soon enough. Why? Because there must be a feasibility study in each case first. I asked, but I didn't. I didn't. Feasibility study. What business model do you use, Minister, to close? What's that? Or in the model of the budget IV? So far, you don't have 500 zlotys for those people who are protesting in the Seym because the budget is already so tight. [[A concerned Member.]] You are not even able to convince the inhabitants of the Baranów commune, who were to be the first beneficiaries. And yet another example of PiS being separated from the real assessment of social needs. Was the Minister at the Pyrzowice airport at the peak of the tourist movement, what does it look like? Poles now need investment in regional airports, in the coming years it needs urgent development of regional airports in order to meet the needs that have now arisen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not one central airport in 10 years, which will extend travel by 50%. 'Cause so far we've got two, three hours, five hours of flight, two hours to get there and everything, and now we're going to drive five hours to the central airport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u456	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased with the optimism of the young minister and I very positively appreciate the government's awareness that a few kilometers of runway will bring us closer than dozens of kilometers of roads. But I am concerned about the fact that the potential we have, local potential, for example in Mazowsze, I am talking about Prayer, Okęciu, Radom, that is more than 10 million passengers per year. If the economic situation does not change, this growth still gives us a very long time reserve and gives us a time reserve to think about not spending money stupidly, not actually indebted, crediting Poles for many years. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] Whether someone has conducted detailed analyses of our needs, the potential not only of Mazovia, but also of other airports, which should also develop, because this airport and infrastructure around the airport are developing the entire area, the infrastructure provides the indications that this airport is functioning. I have this question, Minister: If we invest 35 billion, and some Members doubt that this investment will end, will the TIRs continue to drive at the Okęcie to Berlin to transfer them further? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think we have a very long way to go and a detailed analysis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u458	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u459	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In your explanatory statement, you say we want to build a hub in the hub and spoke system, we already know what's going on. How can you imagine achieving this without completing the road programme without completing the construction of motorways and, in particular, the highways? Let me remind you that we are still 500 km short of highways, and the highways are 3,000 km short of highways. How can you imagine achieving this without completing the railway programme at risk? And yet you keep saying it's going to be the Central Communication Port, well connected to all the regions in the country. Without those programs I was talking about, it's just impossible. Especially since the road programme is almost 2-year-old because, as you know, Minister, the motto of cost optimization. It's supposed to be cheaper, it's more expensive. Of course, we've lost time, but we've lost money. So, where is the consistency and logic in this proposal? Airport, powerful hub in the field. And communicating it with all regions in the country and, of course, with neighbouring countries? Thank you very much. [[There was also an airport in the field in the Modlin.]] Mr President, I am not asking you, please do not answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[I'll answer you.]] [[I just don't know how to do it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u460	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In my questions I will refer to the interpellation which in December Ub. I sent the Minister to find out on the basis of which the location was chosen. I have to say, I want to repeat this question. Minister, really the government of Mrs Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Morawiecki did not do any analyses in this regard, and in fact the basis for the decision was: the report of the inter-ministerial team on. the choice of the location of the central airport for Poland from 2003, the feasibility study of the project from 2006 and the concept of the central airport for Poland - analytical work from 2010 You just texted me that you didn't do any analysis, you just served up some historical documents. So the obvious question is whether it was not necessary to examine the environment over these seven years. The next question is what will be the changes in the construction of the expressway and motorway construction programme, as asked by my predecessor, the railway programme. Because we're changing this deal. From what you write in these materials, you need to pump 16 billion PLN into it. Another issue is national connections. By the way, I have a question for Minister Jaki, whether he is behind the closure of the Warsaw-Okęcie airport. Because that will be the result of the construction of a central airport. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, domestic connections with Warsaw will lose any sense. It will not be the nature of regional connections, it will only be, as you write yourself, a shift to a hub from which you will be able to get to other directions. Please answer these questions in detail and make available all the ideas you have so that we can have a substantive discussion on this subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u462	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u463	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Presenting us the bill on the central airport reminds me of the noisy presentation of the so-called. Morawiecki's plan by the current Prime Minister. There was so much presentation, and it didn't work out. [[What do you mean, no? GDP has increased by 5%.]] In this case too, ladies and, above all, Minister, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that a feasibility study is first carried out, then a concept is made - on this basis more or less it is assessed, finances are estimated - then there is an environmental decision and consultation with residents. Only then do we know whether you can build there or not. As we know, the people are already very opposed. [[Oh, Mr. Minister.]] [[Hello, Belzebub.]] I ignore the most important thing: it may bring prestige, but I doubt it will bring economic gains, given the experience of other major European cities. This is simply over-the-counter because the problem of the current government is the wrong priorities when we share our money. [[Money.]] We stand firm against it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Gretel!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u464	Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite all that, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I sense subcutaneously that you wish well. This project, you're just afraid to say it. [[No, no, no.]] You're afraid to say it. [[Applause]] [[Mr Fuel+.]] You're sorry you didn't come up with this. You're very sorry about that. Your narration in previous years was: to adapt to Europe, to include Europe, to be afraid of Europe, not to be exposed. And today we open a beautiful development window for the Polish state. Be for it, people, be for it. [[Applause]] All right, all right, all Ladies and gentlemen, you are afraid of success. [[No Europe.]] You don't want to say it, I get it. You're in opposition and stay there. The port will be built. The port will be, we will succeed. [[Applause]] [[The chairman's got the wrong guy.]] [[Just like the S14 is.]] So that you may not put yourselves at risk sometimes, because the public will very well assess it, since today China, the European Union, is interested in the port of communication. Madam President, one of the... The lady from the European Commission says simply: What is this communication port? Here in the Seym, he's asking at the Infrastructure Committee. And you, ladies and gentlemen, say you didn't? The excellent Mr Kotowski from the Polish People's Party reminded that I am from Podkarpacie and I am not afraid for the communication port. Don't let him be afraid of Bialystok, Radom, don't let anyone be afraid of this port. [[We're scared, we're scared.]] This port is for Poland, for Poland as a whole, and all [[♪ The bell ♪]] other airports will function well. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[To the university!]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u466	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Kostusia from the Civic Platform. The question has been put in writing. So I ask you to ask Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u467	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Listening to this debate, I have today understood why Members of the Civic Platform and PSL have spent their wealth. Because they don't have an investment vision. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Oh, my God!]] They don't know what investment means or how to invest. They're afraid of investment. [[$3,000. km of motorways and expressways.]] This debate today confirms that. Unfortunately, what they're not gonna take, they're gonna destroy it. It's way out of your league. [[6 billion for regional ports.]] On the other hand, Minister, listening to the concerns, seeing the Civil Platform and the PSL breaking hands and listening to their regret that the government will not be able to buy the land, that the inhabitants will not want to make it available for the construction of the airport, as a representative of the inhabitants of Świętokrzyskie land, I invite the minister, the government to invest... [[You've invested in Silver.]] ...just in the areas purchased by the Kielce government, and these are the areas in Obice. There 600 km2 has already been purchased by the municipality of Kielce [[♪ The bell ♪]] and this municipality is at your disposal. [[But he's supposed to be central.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is it?]] Come on in. This is the middle of the Polish state, [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's a great growing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u468	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I now request the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Nicholas Wild. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen... [[Are there gonna be Kielce?]] [[And Garwolin?]] I will try to find questions in what has been said and to respond to this, because most of what has been said were statements. [[I have a list.]] It seems to me that by grouping the questions that have been asked, one can say, firstly, why, secondly, where, thirdly, how we are going to deal with certain risks - an example of a port in Berlin. I would just like to humbly remind you that we are talking about a law that creates a framework for investment. But I am very pleased to be able to speak to you and tell you why we are doing this. We're doing this because you didn't do it. [[Applause]] Since 2010, it has been known that next year, in two years' time, the port of Okęcie will be clogged and we must do something to release airport capacity. [[That's not true.]] Recent studies, recent data from the Civil Aviation Authority, forecasts show that around 2035 the traffic in Poland will amount to 96 million passengers per year. [[Voice from the hall: When the Chinese arrive.]] Traditionally 40% The traffic is operated by Okęcie airport, and this is what we say on the assumption that there will be no increase in traffic resulting from the continuation of the growth trend by LOT, which - I understand - we all wish in this room. Ladies and gentlemen! 40% That's $100 million. That's $40 million. We are talking about the need, the port that will be able to serve 40 million passengers in 2035. This is not a secret knowledge, we have to add one to the other and realize that we will not serve Okęcem or Modlin or Radom such a great movement. Why? Because around the year... shortly after Minister Grabarczyk's cancellation, the airport was encased in high-speed roads, so that it cannot be further developed. That was the decision. That was the decision made by the successors of the Minister. [[That's not true.]] Today, there is no possibility of developing the Round, they are far limited. So much for the question of why. You're asking why not Modlin, why not duoport? That, of course, is a great question. The duoport solution is a great solution on one condition - that there is no LOT. If there is no LOT, we have a national carrier in which the regions invest, i.e. Ryanair - because it is a secret that low-cost airlines are subsidised in regional ports to generate traffic - and then... [[Voice from the room: Please specify...]] ...we actually have a situation where you can think about fragmentation of traffic. Here is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, because in a situation where we share traffic between two ports, we do not have the possibility, as in the case of a port based on transfer traffic, to take passengers to one place and transport them where they want to fly - where they want to fly intercontinentally, or where they want to fly... In contrast, the inhabitants of the region are unable to serve... [[Because LOT doesn't have a fleet.]] ...are unable to ensure the viability of the merger. And of course, I'll repeat, if there was no LOT, the concept of duoport would be very attractive, so... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's just that LOT did it. It's just that LOT did it and went straight. I'll say it again, I understand that we're all rooting for LOT in this room so we can keep it going. [[Applause]] It is not our goal in any way to block the development of Modlin. But what's the problem in Modlin? The Code of Commercial Companies does not apply in the Modlin because the Supervisory Board does not have access to a contract concluded with the only customer of this port. Why? Because the only customer of this port, the largest airline in Europe, doesn't want that. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you imagine... I would add that Modlin airport is a port where most of the shares are held by state legal entities. This is not a self-government port, it is a port where the majority of the shares are owned by state legal entities to whom access to the company's basic documents is denied. How do you want us to live on this kind of business? How do you want the PPL to give light-handed permission to borrow high-interest loans when we do not have access to the financial data of this company? But as I said, we support Modlin from a purely pragmatic point of view, because passengers who do not go to Modlin will have to go somewhere else, and we have shortcomings in Okęcie, we have a shortage in capacity in Mazovia. That's why we also invest in Radom. We also invest in Radom because in Radom we are able to create an alternative It is not for other passengers operated by Ryanair but for passengers who currently benefit from Chopin's offer. [[But the boat is ready.]] Now the question is where. Why the Lambs, why didn't we do what we did before, sorry for the comparison, the local beauty pageant? Do you know how they were selected by an inter-ministerial central airport location team? They asked which government would like to have a central airport at their place. Well, I think it's a brilliant way, expert knowledge, when it comes to choosing the optimal location. In 2006, research and the first comment of a technical advisor, Ineco-Sener, a suto paid for happily not with our money, the first remark concerning the selection of the location: the selection of the location for the sample is completely missed, because - I apologize for the comparison - the gold mine is built where there is gold, not where people want to dig. But that was the decision. At that time, the Aries were also indicated among the locations, but what did Ineco-Sener say? We don't know if there will be highways, e.g. A2 - now we know - and we do not know what the support for this investment will be in the future, and therefore the Lambs have not been analysed. 2010 We have - correct me - how many - a dozen million, feasibility studio commissioned by the company, a consortium under the leadership of PwC, which perfectly slipped over the location, but indicated the criteria for the profitability of the port. And now I'm going to tell you how we came to choose the location. First of all, we've compiled what we know with the analyses that have been carried out. Secondly, we have checked which location can also be the main point on the railway map of the country. In this way, only locations in the vicinity of Baranów remained from the locations previously indicated. Finally, we verified our reasoning with the technical advisor and the technical advisor pointed out two groups of real estate involved in the location of the port, the central airport in Mazowsze, of course beyond the ritual criticism of the way locations were chosen in the past. It was a group of properties near Baranów about pow. 100 km2 - now it is detailed, and the second group is real estate about pow. 60 km2 near Grójca. Just making it out of Grójca, with all due respect to this beautiful city... Grójec is too far away from the railway centers, from the railway lines, from the basic railway hubs, so that we can make the main point on the railway map of the country there. That's how we chose the location. And now, naturally, I'm gonna answer the question about the risks. The first risk, which is always linked to the construction of a large agglomeration, the high growth momentum at the centre, concerns what will happen to the regions - whether or not we will suck the potential out of the regions, because the efficient, put into spokes that are directed to the Central Communication Port, could... could cause the potential to be sucked out of the regions. But this is not the case with the extension of the railway network, with the extension of what I encourage to read, we define as complementary projects. And now another question - how to avoid the risk of investments such as Berlin. Ladies and gentlemen! Berlin has recently been the only case in the European Union of this type of investment that has ended in such a disaster, and it has ended because of what I hope you are not trying to persuade us to do. The port was designed first for 7 million, and then when it was realized that it was not keeping up with the development of air traffic, it was said: now we want a port for 35 million. And suddenly the ceilings became the floors of another floor of the port, and it turned out that no one knew where they came from or where the cables that were put in there led to. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't encourage... [[But we're not advising you right now.]] It is not a risk for us to scale when we say that in the first stage we want to build a port of 40 million. The greater risk is that this investment is not scaled down because it involves a huge amount of investment. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this project will be supported over politically. As a Republic, we have been dealing with this topic for more than twenty years and this is not an invention from yesterday. What is happening now is to make a decision about implementation, a decision that has been missing from the Republic of Poland for many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u470	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill regulates e.g. the procedure in the event of the need to expropriate the real estate necessary for the implementation of the investment. What scale can the project concern in relation to the land necessary for the implementation of the CPK? Does the government have reliable and concrete data in this regard? The inhabitants of the Baranów commune selected for the construction of the CPK were in favour of holding a referendum on investment in April. Is there going to be such a referendum? Will the government take into account the voice of the residents in this case and the outcome of the vote will be binding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u472	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on Central Communication Port, contained in print No 2473, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Piotr Gliński (prints No. 2478 and 2492). I ask the representative of the applicants, Ms Urszula Pasławska, to present the reasons for the request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u473	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Fellow Members! The Polish People's Party initiated for the first time after 1989 an application for the cancellation of the Minister of Culture. This proposal was supported by Members of the Civic Platform, Members of the Modern Club and Members of the European Union of Democrats. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] We have tabled this proposal because for the first time since 1989 we have a minister who hates culture, avoids creators and artists, avoids people of culture and often turns his back on them. [[Applause]] For the first time in history, we have a minister who does not respect taxpayers' money so much. In the 1990s, the Czartoryski family tried to sell the Polish country a collection for much less than PLN 0.5 billion. However, no one has taken advantage of this offer before Minister Gliński. [[Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: The opportunity passed by the nose.]] [[Mr Suski is a bit hyperactive today.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] For the first time in history, a request was made to the prosecutor's office against the Minister of Culture in the Polish Government. For the first time we have a Deputy Prime Minister who publicly calls Poles serfs. It is not appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, that such a person should perform the highest functions of the state. But first things first. Previous cultural ministers, regardless of the option represented, met and conducted a dialogue with the whole environment of Polish culture, regardless of the world views and diversity of attitudes. [[They were just talking to the left-wings.]] And even if these ministers finally made such decisions, not other decisions, they resulted from a broad debate about Polish culture, from an exchange of views, from sincere talks with people of Polish culture, from compromises. Meanwhile, Minister Piotr Gliński most often speaks to himself. They irritate him very much and irritate the attitudes of the creators based on freedom and autonomy, so he controls Polish culture manually, interfering in artistic and historical contexts. Let me just remind you a few examples of at least controversial personal decisions. You forced the Minister to change the positions of directors of institutions such as the Old Theatre in Krakow, the Book Institute, the State Institute of Film Art. This led to conflict with the creators' environment and consequently to lower artistic levels. People with artistic and managerial achievements, such as Mr Jan Klata, have been replaced by people selected by Minister Gliński. And when the management of the institution, the facility, could not be quickly canceled, a search was made, i.e. Combine specific museums. I'm talking about the case of the World War II Museum. Today in Polish culture there is a place exclusively for people associated with PiS at least ideologically. The Minister does not hide his manual control by dividing ministerial grants into artistic projects. The money is directed where the creators represent ideologies and beliefs consistent with his own. Since its entry into office, it has been characterised by a total lack of respect for social movements and local authorities. The mess and chaos and total bias in final decisions prevent or paralyze the activities of NGOs in the cultural sector, disrupt the work of local governments and local cultural institutions. Rigid times and decisions over the years are freely shifted and extended by the Minister. [[They're still unsolved today.]] The Ministry refused to finance the co-production of a performance about the outstanding Jerzy Grotowski, which in the programme plans had two theatres - Wroclaw Contemporary Theatre and Theatre im. Jan Kochanowski in Opole. No funds were allocated for the 13th Festival of Polish Contemporary Arts in Gdynia. Krystyna Jandy's theatres received a 10-fold lower grant, because the famous actress never held back her sympathy for the opposition. In return, the Ministry of Culture helped to find 800 million PLN for so-called. a loan to the Polish Television. Such actions, of course, do not go unnoticed. I will only quote a few press titles: the Ministry of Culture paralyzes cultural life when it finally distributes grants, the Ministry of Gliński paralyzes the work of cultural animators, record delays in the transfer of grants. And how do you publicly explain your decisions? Let's face it, at least he's honest about it. He said: there is no censorship in Poland, but I am responsible for the grants. It is a pity that he feels only to respect the responsibility of the worldview. All the Prime Minister's predecessors were also responsible for the grants, but above all they felt legally responsible. Manual control also affects the condition of Polish contemporary creative culture. A good Minister of Culture and National Heritage should maintain a level playing field for cultural and national heritage conservation activities. The Minister disrupts, shifts his accents towards selective, biased protection of national heritage. The past, by the way, has dominated the activities of the entire Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Prime Minister Gliński redirected his work to the promotion of historical myths so-called. a good change, where the apology of the cursed soldiers is to wipe out the phenomenon of the Polish Underground State and the two largest underground military formations, i.e. the Home Army and the Battalions of Boys. According to Minister Gliński, history is not a reflection based on truth or experience from which one learns how to act better and smarter in the future. In his understanding, the history of the nation consists in choosing from the past only what can be used propagandaly for internal political use. The fight for historical truth will only be won if it is linked to a wise argument, consistent with the widely recognized narratives of world history, and when we find allies in other countries. However, all the activities of the Ministry of Culture are actually counterproductive - the creation of myths and historical narratives exclusively for the purpose of political warfare is a dead end. In Poland, social divisions are growing, and outside, in international relations, we are doomed to failure, isolation and pushing beyond the currents recognized in the world as real and comfortable. Someone could say, of course, at this point: Okay, but the above arguments are purely subjective. After all, there are Poles who like this policy of the Minister of Culture very much. You don't talk about artistic tastes. Historical truths aren't zero-one. This cannot be compared to the truths of science. However, similar relativism will not be applied to the evaluation of the most controversial decision of Mr Piotr Gliński, connected with the transfer of PLN 0.5 billion from Poland for the possibility of using cultural goods from which the Polish people could still use it. We believe that the purchase by Minister Gliński of the collection of Princes of Czartoryski, which under the law would be presented for all time in Cracow, is an outrage to the world. [[Applause]] This opinion was also agreed by people associated with the foundation - Prof. Marian Wolski, former president of the Czartoryski Foundation, said that the collection was sufficiently protected by law, expense - unjustified, and the money from selling the priceless collection should return to Poland and serve the Polish culture and the Polish reason for the state and that the justice system would eventually lead to it. And Tamara Czartoryska, daughter of Fr. Czartoryski and the heir of the collection, said: The only result of the transfer of funds paid by all Polish taxpayers was the personal financial advantage obtained by Fr. Adam Czartoryski and his wife, as well as new members of the board of foundations. [[If you come to power, you'll have something to sell.]] The purchase becomes even more mysterious in comparison with the fact that a month before the purchase came into force the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments, which created a new kind, a new form of protection of moving monuments: a list of heritage treasures. The bill was prepared by Piotr Żuchowski, then Deputy Minister of Culture, supported by all parliamentary clubs, and the bill was signed by Andrzej Duda. Why? Because it was sent by President Komorowski to the Constitutional Tribunal. We, too, had doubts in preparing this bill. Why? Because it involved a very large limitation of ownership, expropriation. We had such doubts, but in his judgment the Constitutional Tribunal granted us the right. The very fast operation of the foundation, the statute changed within a month, the changed authorities of the foundation, then the sale of the collection, all this is surprising. It seems that the work has been carried out in a hurry so that society cannot get used to the fact that a new form of protection of heritage and moving monuments has been introduced. Minister Gliński today at the committee meeting only insulted, slandered the bill which his political community supported. I have a great inner conviction that the list of heritage treasures will never arise, because it would be a counterweight to the bubble, which was the purchase of the Czartoryski collections. Your piss buddies would never forgive you for just being fooled. [[Applause]] charity, cheat the Chartory family. It is also worth paying attention to other investment purchases carried out by the Minister of Culture, such as the Czartoryski family. [[Voice from the room: It's over.]] [[Voice from the room: We are free.]] I'm thinking about buying... [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] [[Change the record.]] In 2016, I am very sorry, the Polish state paid over PLN 20 million for the palace in Gołuchow. It's interesting. As a party of gentlemen, do you happen to want to launch another program of system support for aristocracy, Princes+ program? Questions of legitimacy also arise in the case of other transactions by Minister Gliński. Their pattern is generally very similar. Resort buys expensive properties from private owners that they can't sell for a long time. Example: The purchase for 29 million PLN of the building in the centre of Krakow after the old hotel Cracovia from the private company Echo Investment. The same situation happened in Wejherów, where a private person bought a villa for a new museum. Perhaps it's just a coincidence that the director of this facility was Deputy Minister Sellin's assistant. Not much less expensive, but also controversial, are issues related to the supervision by Minister Gliński of the Polish National Foundation. The vice-president of this infamous institution is the former assistant of the Minister, and the chief head is the Councilman of Law and Justice in Warsaw. The Foundation was to promote Poland abroad. She has been famous for a controversial campaign defaming the Polish justice system for 20 million PLN [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the money of the Treasury companies... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[Finish it, Member.]] ...in addition to the performance of the P.R. Beata Szydło in 2015, currently employees of the Prime Minister's firm. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u474	Thank you, Member. I ask Elizabeth Raven to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński from print No 2478. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the The Committee on Culture and Communications considered this request at its meeting on 8 May and decided, following a discussion, to issue a negative opinion on the proposal submitted. This extremely non-essential, political - it can be said - absurd proposal was supported by only six members of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u476	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u477	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! In fact, it is difficult to address this really absurd, as President Elizabeth Raven pointed out, and completely falsely substantive, so as not to say: a completely unsubstantiated conclusion. There were so many lies, stupid things, weird words... [[Specifically.]] ...like the gentlemen's party, scaling the bill. What language is that, ma'am? [[Jarosław Kaczyński.]] Did you go back to Stalinist times? Didn't you read too much of the People's Tribune? [[Voice from the room: What's going on here?]] Or is this some kind of ZSL magazine? [[Don't argue.]] In any case, the level of this proposal really deviates sharply from the merit for which we have gathered here, the assessment of the real, actual and reliable what the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and National Heritage is doing. I'm the one who's so embarrassed and embarrassed. Buying out the entire collection of the Czartoryski princes together with the real estate from private hands at a price representing several percent of the market value of the collection - this decision of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is the reason for the total opposition to the minister's resignation. A decision that was praised throughout the world, about which newspapers from all over the world wrote. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The lady with the group passes to the Polish State Treasury for the radius of value. [[As far as the promile is concerned, it's for the president.]] That's very, very disturbing. [[Applause]] This conclusion of PSL and Platform, this conclusion of total opposition confirms the same correctness that we have been able to observe for years. Whenever the Ministry of Culture, the government takes action in favour of the Polish state, in this case in the area of culture, Polish heritage, Polish identity, representatives of PO and PSL are always invariably against. I remember protests here in the courtroom, these shouts when we debated the establishment of the Institute of Solidarity and Valor, whose purpose is to conduct research and honor those who saved the citizens of the Republic. You were against it. You said let the I.P.N. handle it. But at the same time you say, "IPN must be eliminated." This is the policy concerning Polish historical and cultural policy, this care about Polish heritage, about Polish identity in your issue. [[Applause]] Resistance against the merger of the World War II Museum with the Westerplatte Museum, remember? I remember perfectly this upheaval at the session of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture. I remember perfectly well your argument. Westerplatte, this symbol of untamed Polish heroism, this symbol of resistance against the German invader. It bothered you because it distorted the narrative of a museum that was supposed to pursue a hysterical policy... a historic nice Berlin. [[Applause]] [[Hysterical politics, you put it well.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] This is your historical policy, this is your culture and heritage policy, nice to Berlin, not the Polish state's right. [[Don't lie to me!]] [[The voice from the room: What propaganda.]] But what can be surprising if your performance was the issue in the seized public media of the film, the product of the German foreign policy, our mothers, our fathers. You said something about the Home Army. How did the National Army show on this show? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Take another look at this. [[Applause]] But what do you expect, since the State's patronage during the Civic Platform was focused on replicating such productions to produce such films, publications or theatre performances. To this day, we collect the applause of this policy, Poles collect to this day. [[Voice from the room: In the fog!]] What to expect from the people of the team who in Warsaw probably leveled down more monuments than it renovated, because the interests of developers are again above the Polish state rhyme? [[Applause]] There are many other things that could be mentioned, but I would like to say that this motion to dismiss the Minister of Culture is, of course, a proposal of a total opposition, which is fighting a good government... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[We're fighting a vicious change.]] ...but also the jamming of your remorse. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh! Bravo, Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u478	Thank you, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u479	Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate on the vote of distrust towards the Minister of Culture could not happen at all if only the Prime Minister of Poland Beata Szydło or Mateusz Morawiecki, while maintaining a sense of decency, had already given the Minister of Gliński his resignation. [[Applause]] And they had a lot of reasons for this: politicalisation of cultural institutions, censorship of cultural events, crushing criticism of creative circles, chaos in granting grants and smothering of the non-governmental sector. It's only the most common charges. But Minister Gliński, when supervising the ownership of public media, is also indirectly responsible for the party propaganda of public television and employing vulgar workers mistakenly called journalists. But all this does not bother the Minister of Gliński, as does the additional 800 million PLN for TVP, although today the government cannot find money for the most deprived. [[Applause]] The Minister also does not interfere with the embarrassing activity of the already famous Polish National Foundation, which receives several hundred million zlotys from companies of the Treasury. For what? For a disgraceful billboard action defaming Polish judges and sailing a yacht around the world. [[Which isn't gonna be there.]] And what did the minister start to bother you? And the fact that she's seen the Glinsky scandal. Mr. Gliński, why is nearly PLN 500 million spent on the purchase of the Czartoryski collection in Liechtenstein today? Minister Gliński, why did you allow the situation which Poles call the con of the century? Why? That is why today's public debate is necessary, because it must sound facts, not only that you have repeated half-truths. You're saying because the collection of the Czartoryski family was threatened. But that's not true. You know that very well. Even during the Platform's and PSL's governments, an extremely important amendment was adopted by President Andrzej Duda, who introduced the so-called "notabene." A list of Heritage Treasures. It is a special and unique protection of moving monuments important for national heritage, such as the collection of the Czartoryski family, as well as protection against their removal from the country. Two years ago, as Minister of Culture, you were in favour of this solution, and today you are its chief critic. You even called it a legal bug. Then I ask: Minister, what has changed since November 2016? Because it was at that time that a government bill was being processed which additionally regulates the functioning of the Heritage Treasury List, a project of your own, about which the PiS representative spoke in the Seym: The list of Heritage Treasures was conceived as a form of care for moving monuments of special value for the Polish national heritage. It can be said that it is a matter of not being sold a piece of the class by a lady with a weasel and in order to provide such works with adequate protection. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Therefore, the vocation of the Treasure List Heritage is undoubtedly an idea worthy of the highest support. And that's the endorsement of the Treasure List. She received her inheritance from the entire Law and Justice Club, headed by Minister Gliński, Mrs Lichocka and Mrs Elżbieta Kruk. [[Applause]] Minister, what's changed? Why was the treasure list enough to protect the Czartoryski collection a month before your collection was purchased, and after you made public, the same list became a legal issue? Why did you delay a year and a half to issue regulations necessary to protect the Czartoryski collections? What is the real second bottom of a transaction worth 500 million PLN? [[Applause]] Were your omissions intentional? Why is Jarosław Kaczyński's trusted firm involved in this transaction? Today these questions are asked by Poles. You say this transaction was transparent and transparent. Then why did you meet Prince Adam Czartoryski secretly? Why did these conversations take place without the knowledge of the foundation, which in fact owned the collection? Or was it because the board of the foundation at that time categorically opposed this sale? Or maybe that's why you pressured the registry court to make it urgent, first, personal changes in the foundation, and secondly, to change the statute and allow the sale of the works of the Czartoryski family for the first time? [[Applause]] One thing in this whole affair is the most shocking - the fact that 500 million PLN instead of supporting Polish culture today is on the account of some foundation in Liechtenstein. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's your personal responsibility. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Minister, the Gliński affair is a fact, which is why the Civic Platform Club will support the motion for a vote of distrust...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u480	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u481	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club in the matter of a vote of distrust towards Minister Piotr Gliński. I do not hide that not all the arguments in this conclusion are convincing me, but there is an argument which here is absolutely in favour of following this conclusion. This argument is the Polish National Foundation, for which someone should finally answer in the government. It cannot be that such a creation, which was a beautiful idea - because it is true that everyone would want an institution with such capabilities to function, actually defend the good name of Poland abroad - to transform such a thing into such a creation as today is the Polish National Foundation. [[It's a scam.]] Minister Kempa said at the very beginning that the Polish National Foundation is a great offensive of the Polish government. The Minister said that so far there has been no promotion of Poland or defence of its good name. We've had a lot of these situations in recent months, a lot of times when this foundation should have been actively engage, but never, ever dealt with these tasks. It is not quite true that we have to wait a long time for the results, because the situation would be different if this foundation really tried to do anything. But when she does nothing when she does not react for a few days at a time of crisis, such as the Polish-Israeli crisis, there are huge doubts as to whether this foundation actually works. Ordinary Internet users are able to organize an action on social media within a few hours, which is repeated around the world, is shown. For example, when it comes to the New Jersey City monument, all he had to do was drive one boarding house, make videos just in New Jersey, and the views of these videos are millions. On the other hand, what the Polish National Foundation does is not even a broad echo in Poland, it cannot even tweet quickly. She received huge funds, spent them on billboards, couldn't even hire people who, however able in English to create messages, communicate. So if this foundation was to help us abroad, perhaps we should start by hiring people who can speak English. [[Voice from the room: This scam is.]] I know that the government claims that this is a non-governmental organisation, an organisation that is not available as a board that cannot be checked, only annual reports can be checked. That, on the other hand, is not true. A real non-governmental organization is not an organization that receives several hundred million zlotys from companies of the State Treasury, this is an organization that can manage itself. This is not an organization that is set up by the government. This lack of transparency, if Members want to talk about facts, can be seen in the judgment of the provincial administrative court, which, following the complaint by Mr Jan Kunert, a journalist, ordered us to show the agreements that the Polish National Foundation is implementing for this public money, because if it is public money, the foundation has no right to hide itself with the secret of the entrepreneur, it should clearly show who receives the money, how they are spent, on what initiatives. You can also look at the calendar of the Polish National Foundation. In 2016, in July, it was created. By April 2017, its website was not even created, the website is being built. With that much money, you build a website for nearly a year? Really, is this serious? In October, a few months later, it changes its status, which is important, and it is no longer a foundation that takes care of defending the Polish good name in the world, only to take care of Polish history, martyrdom and campaigning for justice courts. Well, that looks ridiculous. [[It's a scam.]] Besides, the PR foundation can't even take care of its PR. It's just a psychic. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And another argument I would like to mention - museums. I understand that the protection of the Jewish heritage is very important, but let us also remember symmetry and apply it. I'm asking, Minister, what's going on with the East Cartoon Museum? This is the essence of Polishness, the essence of Polish tradition, [[♪ The bell ♪]] culture, and... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u482	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski from the Modern Club has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u483	Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister of Culture and National Heritage! This is the chronicle of censoring accidents. You will go into the history of the Republic as the main censor who sits in the Ministry of Culture. [[Applause]] I'm actually wondering if you're the Minister of Culture or if you're the Minister of Propaganda, because if you're the Minister of Propaganda, you're an excellent minister, and if you're the Minister of Culture, you're a hopeless Minister of Culture. [[Applause]] Mr. Censor has been firmly embedded since 2016, when you tried to prevent the premiere of Death and Girlfriend. That's when I offered you to resign. You didn't listen to me. Today maybe we'll have better luck. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: He, he, he.]] I would like to say and read something that is very important. Well, Prime Minister Gliński is also a reviewer. I don't know if you know that. Glinski about the film "Face" by Małgorzata Szumowska: It's a classic production company with a simple as cep thesis that Polish society is a bunch of primitive xenophobic morons, including ugly not only morally but also physically, and everything is boring, predictable from start to finish. Yeah, but the Berlin elites are thrilled. That, of course, is... [[That's the truth.]] ...the classical implementation of the inferiority complex that your private Member, President Jarosław Kaczyński, imposed on you. And you're part of it, of course. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Would you calm down?]] You are a man who has accepted a philosophy that is extremely effective. You name Polish elites. Who do you want to replace Krystian Lupa? Who do you want to replace Agnieszka Holland, Mirosław Bałka, Magda Cielecka? [[Voice from the room: Chartoryski.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Chartory, yeah. [[Voice from the room: Rachon.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is the situation where you talk to the gentlemen. And I have a huge grudge against the great families, especially the Czartory family, that he did not give up his collection for gold. That's the way it's supposed to be. You have launched your decision to buy the works of Czartoryski and various museum objects a very dangerous path, because what is to happen now when Radziwiłłowie, when Lanckoronski, when the Lubomirskis have their works of art located in various objects in Poland? What are they supposed to do with them today? You're gonna buy that, too? [[Applause]] I think of one thing today that this excess of such... this overzealousness, this kind of intolerance and this kind of, I don't know, national-catolic-goulish philosophy [[Joy in the Chamber]] is for all of us scary and you will go into history also as the one who destroys Polish culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u484	Now you have the floor of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I hope you don't leave. Minister! I once thought that the worst minister of culture was Minister Zdrojewski or Minister Ujazdowski, but you crossed all borders. You don't deserve to be called Minister of Culture. My predecessors have basically said everything, but I'll remind you of other things that haven't been mentioned here. You're the minister of culture who's always stuck in the past. You, for example. he doesn't invest in contemporary art at all, and in things that are happening right now and that can happen in modern times. You have forgotten about the fundamental problems that are bothering Polish culture. I say, for example. about the pension benefits of the creators. You haven't completely taken care of it, and that's what the cultural creators have been talking about for a long time. I know you can take money out of the Ministry's budget into untapped initiatives and into obscure entities. We already know that, but pension matters for artists are one of the basic things that you should be the first to do. Another thing: colleagues were talking about public media. Sir, Minister, public television has been the most indebted and non-profitable since 1989, and this is due to you and Mr. Kurski. You also performed various directors' casts at the National Audiovisual Institute, the Book Institute, the World War II Museum, the Old Theatre or the State Film Institute. You pushed and reached for the financial scarf in the case of Malta and Dialogue festivals, but also in the case of the Polish Theatre in Wrocław or the Powszechny Theatre in Warsaw. You like to create more national institutions in the image of institutions that exist, e.g. The National Heritage Institute is a repeat of the IPN. One more very scandalous thing: competitions in the Ministry of Culture, those that take place now. Their solutions are only now. How are culture people supposed to work if they don't get the money in the second quarter? How are culture people supposed to work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u486	Mr Kaminski, Mr PSL, the Union of European Democrats now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u487	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PSL Club - the European Union of Democrats, of course, will support this proposal that we have tabled ourselves because... 20 years ago there was this movie Robin Hood and guys in tights and it was a comedy. You made a drama of Robin Hood and a lady with a weasel. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Only that you are Robin Hood's inverse because Robin Hood took the rich and gave them to the poor, and you took the poor Poles and gave them to the rich Princes of Chartory. [[Applause]] His own daughter says he hates Poland and Poles. His own daughter says it was a scam. His own daughter says he has corrupt suspicions. This is not said by the Berlin elites, but by the daughter of a man to whom - like this man himself boasts - within 2 days you gave PLN 0.5 billion from our pockets for something that belonged to the Polish people. [[Applause]] But you, Minister, didn't just buy a dame with a weasel. You also bought the box of Queen Bona. As long as he finds out. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister! Mr. Zygmunt walks down the street and wants to sell you the Zygmunt Column much cheaper. And if they show up at Mr. Hohenzollern's and they say there's an Amber Chamber, you'll pay them, too? This is a comedy! You bought Queen Bona's box, which we don't know if she even exists yet. And Polish taxpayers paid for it. But are you successful in cultural, historical politics? Yes. It must be said that recently the intellectual pillar of this government - this is a proof of the effectiveness of your historical policy - said that your president has more merit for the history of Poland than Józef Piłsudski. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm waiting for your bill, in which we will write that your president is more brute than Bolesław Chrobry, more great than Kazimierz the Great... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...more beautiful than Philip the Beautiful.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u488	Mr President, may I ask about the matter and the point? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No screaming, ladies and gentlemen! [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Saint Kaczynski.]] Silence, sir. You don't like it, they're clowns. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What the hell do you think you're doing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u489	But I'm sorry... I'm telling you, your marshal, about this... Count it off from time, Marshal. [[Behave yourself, Marshal.]] I would like to say that, of course, in view of your submission to the Magnate families, paradoxically, there is still a debate that we have just concluded on the Central Airport, because here's what we read: that consoled by the Czartory Branicki's policy, they have already applied for the return of Okęc and a lousy 275 million compensation. So maybe that's why the Central Airport is going to be set up. No, Minister, for such a cultural policy, to buy the boxes of Queen Bona simply cannot be accepted, because it was the largest one-time transfer to a private account in the history of the Polish state. Mrs. Lichocka said here that it was written by foreign newspapers. Yes, they wrote with surprise, because in these newspapers Mr. Czartoryski boasted that he had arranged it in two days and said that everywhere else such negotiations for such a amount would last at least a year, [[Applause]] And here in two days. [[Other newspapers read.]] There are women sitting there who can't wait 20 days to solve their problems just because they're not called the Czartoryskis or the Branickis. But there's another bottom in this case. You're gonna have to answer that. Mrs Tamara Czartoryska clearly states that the personal recipient of transfers for powerful amounts from the Czartoryski Foundation was the born brother of the minister in this government. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] This means that the government has made a decision that has resulted in the enrichment of the minister's natural brother who made this decision. If something like this had happened to any other government, you would have brought a minister like that out in handcuffs. [[Voice from the room: Apologize and leave.]] What I'm trying to say, Minister, is that of course... [[Voice in the hall: Give me the money.]] ...which you will not touch, it is clear that you are serving a very bad, forgery Polish history, ideology. But your success in the field of promotion abroad is not visible, because Poland today has a tarnished reputation, and it is a tarnished reputation because you did it. What have you done with the I.P.N. Act? Today, the role of the opposition in Poland is to speak and defend the good name of Poland, to say: this government is not the government of all Poles, this government is the government which destroys the Polish reputation and still spends our money on the boxes of Queen Bona. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u490	Mr Winnicki, not associated, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u491	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! How good it would be if these various accusations, at least some of them, which Mr Mieszkowski had made, were true. This would be in the best interest of the Prime Minister as Minister of Culture, because indeed Poland deserves that after years of domination in the sphere of culture of the left-liberal option, still marked very strongly by the commune, yes... Some of the creators, of course Mr. Mieszkowski mentioned, mentally and socially, are in deep communion. And so the Polish cultural space demands decommunization in relation both to this old commune and to this new commune, cultural Marxism, which is today pushed. Unfortunately, this is not happening under the authority of your Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Gliński. We do not have something in the Polish culture that we could call traditional, Catholic, conservative, not to mention national, counter-revolution. There is no such thing, Prime Minister. It was not for the mentioned here Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, nor is it for this government. There is no such sensitivity in this government or such understanding. Moreover, there is no action that really pluralizes cultural space, so that this dominance of the nihilistic option in society in minorities, but unfortunately in certain environments, circles of very strong cultural elites, is broken. There are no such courageous decisions, mechanisms and such an approach to the matter, because there is no courage to question the dogmas of postmodernism in the space of culture, as well as in the space of literature, art, such as architecture, urbanism in Poland, and to question all that denies our cities, which makes the gallery of contemporary art, at least to most of them, not worth walking, because there are simply bohomages, [[Joy in the Chamber]] because there are inventions of individual wizards who are not associated with any classic canons of beauty. [[Voice from the room: How do you know?]] [[The voice from the hall: You don't understand it simply.]] Because this culture, which is created today, especially after the cultural revolution in the 1960s, especially in this Marxist cultural waltz, which goes to Poland from the West, is simply an end culture, is a culture of end-stage civilization, falling, one which will, of course, soon be dominated in the West by other cultures and identities. And that's what you need to be firm and open, with an open cape to resist. We don't see that. Of course, the Polish National Foundation was mentioned here, and rightly so, because it is too much money and it is one big mess. We have to be clear about this. This is one big mess, and what's going on today is this unfortunate cruise with Mr. Kusznierewicz... For God's sake, as you wanted to be an overseer - yes, I am saying this to the state - the national foundation to part with it and to recognize that it really was an impossible idea, I really believe that it could be arranged so that it would be quietly, not so that such an embarrassment in the century of independence would take place in front of the whole of Poland. [[Quietly?]] It's just extreme unprofessionalism. Once you've screwed something up, let's not let this be the subject of public debate in the way it's done. But, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, you have no cultural, economic idea for this century of independence. In 1894, under the partitions for the century of insurrection, a little after the century of the Constitution on 3 May in Lviv was a beautiful, huge national exhibition for a year, a presentation of achievements from various partitions. Under the partitions in Lviv, 50 ha, 150 pavilions. Over 1 million people attended this exhibition this year. The current annual budget was equal to the budget of Krakow. Prince Adam Sapieha, you've already mentioned the Czartoryskis, yes. Then let us mention that Prince Adam Sapieha was the patron, the curator of this exhibition. And to measure up to something like that... We don't have that for a century of independence. You didn't offer anything like that. You will make a celebration, make a parade one, the other, there will be a little celebration of August 15th, September 1st, November 11th and that's all. Nothing to the extent that the Poles did under the partitions in Lviv, for a century of independence, you did not prepare, even in part. In the 19th century, 1150 thousand. The people were at that exhibition. The electric tram was specially conducted on this occasion, the first electric tram in this part of Europe. You have nothing to offer Poland and Poles. You have the inability of the Polish National Foundation to offer. And that's the truth. Unfortunately, this is the truth about your governments, also about governments in the cultural space, that even if you sometimes want something good, you most often can't do it, you don't know how. And, of course, the last motive for this brief speech, Prime Minister. It's been three years, and there's no central, great museum of the East Cartoons. There's an announcement he'll be in Lublin. Why in Lublin, not in Warsaw, where all school trips go, I don't know. This is aberration. [[Because this is a very good place.]] But what is more, Prime Minister, you have no control over the POLIN museum in which anti-Polish historical policy is being conducted, you have not regained control over the Auschwitz museum, in which exactly the same happens, you create, you promise another tens of millions for the next Jewish museums in which anti-Polish historical policy will be conducted. And that, unfortunately, will be very negative for you. And that's why... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Give me the ticket!]] If you were a good minister of culture, then, of course, the motion of the liberal opposition for a vote of distrust should be rejected, but unfortunately, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Movement will support this proposal. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u492	Now, please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u493	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Various requests for the withdrawal of ministers and prime ministers, of course, the High House has seen here for years, but such a psychic proposal as this one is probably a long time ago or perhaps never. In fact, Prime Minister Gliński is a de facto man who rebuilds Polish culture and Polish national heritage. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[500 million!]] And you, in your reigns, dealt with what could be called the liquidation of Polish culture. I'll tell you in a minute... I'll explain it in a minute. [[Where you were counseling, right?]] I'll give you a very precise explanation in a moment. But maybe a little personal reflection that will involve your governments. Well, when I was president of the bank, we co-financed the Black Thursday, the production that talked about the workers' massacre on the Coast in 1970, we co-financed the Honorary Time, we co-financed the 1920 Battle of Warsaw... [[Franchised loans.]] [[His father.]] ...productions that have gained the character that Poles know today and which Poles value very much. At that time, in 2013, what did the Polish Television do under the direction of your Minister of Culture? Because Polish Television then bought our mothers, our fathers. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] This was mentioned by Mrs Joanna Lichocka. And in this show, the Wehrmacht soldiers were good, they were benefactors, Mrs... [[And you made such a shame on YouTube for free!]] ...and all the soldiers of the Home Army were shown as dirty, ragged anti-Semitics. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about the national foundation?]] This is the cultural policy and the national heritage policy that you followed. [[Propaganda.]] But unfortunately, you continued this too later. Well, in January 2015, you sold Polish Recordings for a proverbial hat. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Do you know what was in there? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Scandal. In these Polish Recordings you sold for 8 million PLN to a foreign company... [[Listen to me, miss. He's not leaving.]] ... 40,000. Polish recordings, Polish music by such artists as Irena Santor, Anna Jantar, Marek Grechuta, Młynarski and Skaldów. Today, Prime Minister Gliński is trying to get it back. Do you want him to buy it back or don't you want him to buy it back? [[Are they digitized or not?]] Because all Polish families - for a good cause of many generations who love these songs and those artists - would of course want us to regain the rights to these recordings, lost in the times of your governments. Ba, I don't know if you know, but then we also unfortunately sold even the rights to fairy tales read by actors such as Wiesław Michnikowski, Irena Kwiatkowska or Barbara Krafftówn. [[It's about the Gliński appeal, which brought out 500 million.]] You sold fairy tales read by famous Polish actors, fairy tales read to children. [[It's all out there.]] We're trying to get it back today. We're trying to buy it back today. This is a great effort, a great work also by Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. [[Applause]] But let's move on. What did the government of PO and PSL do? The creators of culture, music, history of culture... [[But this is not a vote of distrust towards our government!]] ... You took away your tax privileges. These privileges thanks to the intercession of Prime Minister Gliński we have given away since the beginning of this year... [[They're in Liechtenstein now.]] ...enhancing the ability to deduct revenue costs up to 50% twice, from an amount of 80,000. PLN up to approx. 160,000. zł. This is actually true about how we are trying to support, we and Prime Minister Gliński, who are the creators, and it is the creators who are very widely understood - it is not only a small group of celebrities connected with your power, with your world view... [[Applause]] Even sometimes very good maybe creators, but of course very biased. We democratize access to culture in this way, because through... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, that's what's hurting you. ... Because by increasing the ability to deduct revenue costs, we are significantly increasing the revenue of these creators... [[Give me the disabled.]] ...who couldn't afford a very high level of acting or some kind of... [[You're gonna walk down the hall, Prime Minister.]] Plus, I'll be right over, just a minute. ...or any other art, sometimes of course also very good, although not always. This democratisation of access to culture, also for creators, is a characteristic feature of the activities of Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. But let's move on. Well, the Prime Minister is rebuilding Polish heritage in the area in which it was most vulnerable. [[Lichtenstein.]] In the Museum of the Second World War, which you have built for 8 years as a competition for the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising... [[What kind of competition?]] ...and finally you built, the sufferings of the German people were definitely exposed in the foreground, and the Polish resistance movement was roughly combined... it was at the level of the resistance movement in the Czech Republic and the resistance movement in France. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] It was the resistance movement, which was the biggest underground resistance movement in the history of the world, and you compared it to traffic... And Irena Sendler was hidden somewhere behind the hydrant. That's what the exhibition looked like. [[But you're lying. Were you in that museum?]] Today, Prime Minister Gliński, linking this museum to the Westerplatte Museum... [[But you were there two years ago?]] ...and war or September 1939... [[Were you there?]] [[When was the first time you were there?]] ...creates a completely new unit, using also the good experience of museums, some of the - good of course - experiences... [[But when was the first time you were there, Prime Minister?]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: He was not at all.]] ...which were included in this museum, rebuilding the memory of Poland's history, the most important piece of Polish history, which constituted us. Let's move on. Museum of Polish History. Well, that's the story of negligence, failure and omission. [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: National Foundation.]] In eight years, nothing's happened, completely. [[What happened in Katyn?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u494	I ask Mrs Gajewska to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u495	Today we were able to conduct an international tender, an international competition. The Prime Minister decided it and the Museum of Polish History will be created. [[Voice from the room: Will!]] Good news? Good news. [[Applause]] It will be created very quickly. [[So the Polish National Foundation wouldn't do it.]] There are also other individuals who already build and will build such a memory, the identity of the Polish people as it should be. The Center for Totalitarian Research, thanks to Prime Minister Gliński and Minister Magdalena Gawin, was set up at a very rapid pace. There and in many other centres, the Prime Minister cares about digitisation. Appreciate this because this is a translation of these works, masterpieces sometimes, books, documents into modern means of use, which allow much more access. Let's appreciate it all. It really is a great credit to the Prime Minister of Gliński. [[Applause]] [[How about a little cruise?]] Let's move on. The Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. We are trying to rebuild the memory of World War II, the role of Poles saving Jews, the role of Poles, by presenting historical truth. [[Don't do this.]] [[It's not effective!]] Of course, we have just set up the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude for this purpose, where we will honor and honor these citizens of other countries, e.g. Ukrainians... [[You showed it to the IPN Act.]] ...who also rescued Poles. But we also want to tell the truth about the Volyn slaughter, to tell the truth about the genocide of Poles during World War II in many, many places. [[Applause]] It's not just the works, the construction of museums, which, by the way... Sometimes you can hear from your benches, from all the media that support you, very numerous, something like there's too many museums. Well, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, we have these museums in terms of 100,000. The inhabitants are much less than that in all Western countries, and the exhibits, including those redeemed from the Chartory Princes' Foundation, are still less in Poland than there is in one British Museum in London. It is worth taking care of this heritage that we have. It is worth to buy back where we can, and restore to the domain of the Polish state after these 200 and 300 years of terrible, bad history, which unfortunately we have experienced. But it's not just museums, it's not just institutes, it's not just the digitisation I was talking about. It is also the material substance needed for exhibitions such as museums, art schools, theatre schools. Here, too, the Prime Minister has taken care of thermomodernization, many renovations... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: About what?]] ...assigned funds you've never spent before. You know what, ladies and gentlemen? You should be grateful to Prime Minister Gliński because he has fulfilled one of your obligations. I don't know if you remember: you made a commitment in 2011, 2012, 2013, that you're going to do 1%. the state budget for culture. Right? [[On the economic council.]] It never happened. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] [[It was.]] Prime Minister Gliński spends 1.1%, 4 billion on culture. [[Applause]] [[That's 500 in Liechtenstein.]] That is why the Prime Minister is the man who most rebuilds Poland's cultural heritage in the last 25 years. [[Voice in the hall: He's giving away money.]] I have never seen such a situation as this in recent years, when memory, identity and heritage have been so consistently rebuilt, so it is worth mentioning. But also many local government institutions, many such institutions that have barely recovered, can be said to support from the state budget. Such institutions, which, if you'll excuse the comparison, almost starved in your time, such as dance bands and songs of Silesia and Mazowsze... [[Hunger is Gowin dying.]] ...like the Ulm Museum. [[Applause]] Of course, many other regional institutions, which could not cope with the budget shortcoming, today we co-finance from the state budget. [[Gazeta Poland, Tadeusz Rydzyk are starving.]] Only our culture - it's about building it - is culture It's much more democratic right now. We believe that regional creativity, regional cultural souvenirs are also important, not just those grouped somewhere centrally, in individual places. That is why what we do in national museums in different cities is fundamentally different from what you did. The proposal also included the redemption of the entire collection of the Chartory Princess Foundation, so I will now move on to this. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know this, but there are 250,000 in this collection. books, documents of all kinds of manuscripts... [[Voice from the room: They don't know.]] [[We know.]] ... 86,000. various kinds of works of art. [[Voices from the room: We know.]] There are works of Rembrandt, drawings of Renoir... [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: National Foundation, Czartoryski.]] ... Matejki and of course the famous Lady of the group, sometimes called the Lady of the Weasel. [[And the box...]] But I don't know if the opposition knows at the same time... [[Voice from the room: We know.]] ...that in the autumn of last year in New York was sold another painting by Leonardo da Vinci - Salvator Mundi. Do you know how much? For $450 million. One painting, much less famous, much less admired than a lady with a weasel. [[Money in Liechtenstein.]] Apart from the fact that we're not only buying this painting for a fraction of our value, you're also saying how this money could have left the country. [[But you shouldn't have spent it at all.]] You are surprised now, and earlier you questioned that this collection from Poland could never leave. Today is the time, in 10 and 20 years there will be another time. After all, the fate of the collection collected for 200 years was different. [[Voice from the room: But what is this comparison?]] Let us thank Mr Glinski for what he did. [[But 500 million has left, Prime Minister.]] Now this collection is the property of the Polish state. There's a difference, there's a huge difference, ladies and gentlemen... [[What?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: She could not leave Poland.]] ...if the collection is a private property of some foundation... [[Game in the O.R.]] You know what, Mr Mieszkowski, I agree with you. [[I don't believe it.]] The Chartory Princess Foundation should pay for the gold. I totally agree with you at this point, but somehow they didn't want to give it up for gold, they used all sorts of catwalks, and it had to be done to make the masterpieces... [[Voice from the room: 2 days of negotiation.]] [[Then you have the right to negotiate.]] ...our culture, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the finest masterpieces... [[Maybe you shouldn't have bought it at all.]] I compared you with one painting that was sold five times more expensive in New York City. [[They don't understand.]] Today, all this collection, 250,000. The manuscripts, 86,000. works of art, is the property of the Polish state, property of the Polish society. [[Time.]] [[Your marshal, time.]] Today, no one will take away from Poles the property we gave them. [[Applause]] Finally, let me share this brief reflection. You know what? I think you have such a very specific DNA in your cultural code. [[This is a violation of the Sejm's seriousness.]] [[Oh, you're the master race.]] Such DNA, which I am very surprised about, but I also think that many Poles are surprised, I think most of society is surprised. Well, you are used to selling Polish culture, Polish goods, just like Polish Recordings, just like the Navy Shipyard, just like the Polish banks, and we want to support Polish culture and the Polish economy. [[Applause]] [[What kind of comment is that?]] [[That's insolence.]] [[What right?]] [[And the prizes belonged.]] You're wondering how that's possible. As possible, you ask that you buy one of the largest Polish banks. Yeah, that's possible. Let us buy him back. How come you're buying one of the biggest power companies? Yeah, that's possible. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You pay for American banks.]] You're yelling why we're doing this. We are doing this to increase the sovereignty of Poland. [[Applause]] [[The most sovereign was the Polish People's Republic, everything was state.]] [[And you import coal from Russia. How much coal do you import from Russia?]] How is it possible that at the hands of the syndicate we buy the Navy Shipyard? Yeah, that's possible, because we ripped that money out of the VAT mobs who were swinging around here like the wind in the wild fields of your time. [[Applause]] And this money is spent on the redemption of Polish banks, Polish energy companies, Navy Shipyard, Czartoryski collection. [[And buying coal from Russia.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Time.]] [[What do you say about the Polish National Foundation?]] You know what, ladies and gentlemen? High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Members of the opposition, and I have this request at the end. [[The Prime Minister broke the rules, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Prime Minister broke the rules.]] Let us support the Polish economy in peace, let us continue to support Polish culture, let us build good, strong, beautiful, great and more proud Poland. I'm asking you very much. [[Some Members get up, give them a round of applause.]] [[It was supposed to be about those ladies from the hallway, about the Polish National Foundation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u496	Thank you, Prime Minister. At the same time, to you who were screaming: time, time, especially Mrs Hennig-Klosce and Mrs Skowronska, I remind you that I have benefited from the article. Article 179 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a. I recommend his reading and your attention. [[You'll have to file a motion to punish yourself to Marshal Kuchciński.]] I would like the floor of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński. [[It's impossible in two years.]] Do you need a doctor, sir? [[Voice from the Chamber: That's why we have to rule four more terms.]] [[He can call his doctor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I understand critical opinions... [[You don't understand.]] ...I even understand what you've said to me right now, even though we're not on you, but we can go if you want. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Even the invectives understand, the innuendoes, these various inventions, although they are difficult to understand sometimes, but well, I understand, this is the fate of politics, but all that you have presented here must be somehow logically linked to one another, must ultimately be based on material facts. [[Voice from the room: Genius.]] Of course, you can also use beliefs, superstitions, ideologies, but here we want to talk rationally to society about important matters and it is worth referring to facts. Meanwhile, here I mostly met me, but also us, the generals, some random associations, discourses, psychology. The applicant has allowed herself to say that I hate someone. On what grounds? That I've made any statements concerning, I don't know, serfs? [[It's in your genes.]] Member, there are problems. [[We need a doctor.]] Exactly. I will not refer in detail to your various insinuations, because not all of them are understandable to me. [[Oh, we get it.]] It's only worth correcting the simplest errors of facts. I don't know if it was biased, whether it was wrong will or ignorance, I don't know, it's hard for me to say. I'm a little helpless, I'll admit it. [[Voice from the room: Not just now.]] [[For two whole years.]] The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Commissioner, has not given any loan to any public television as a live one. You were talking about wiping the AK tradition with cursed soldiers, something like that. I don't know, my sleep. I'm sure their parents are terrified that their son wipes away the traditions of the Home Army they were members of. It's a transfer decision. As a live one, I didn't transfer any money. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: How can I not?]] Do you have any facts about this? We can talk about the money the Minister of Culture and National Heritage has transferred. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I have submitted an interpellation. To this day, there is no answer.]] Madam President, you are using insinuations and false information. [[Voice from the room: Where's the money?]] The Gołuchów were bought from the Chartory Princes' Foundation. Where did you get that information? There was nothing like that. [[From the Ministry of Culture.]] Yes, we have purchased Gołuchów, which the Supreme Administrative Court - such are the courts - has granted to private owners. We bought it because... Have you ever been there, you have seen a magnificent palace in Gołuchow, which was used by the National Museum in Poznań... [[The Charitor family.]] ...and a 40-acre park? It's worth the trip, my fellow Member, please. This is the property of the National Museum in Poznań at the moment and no one will threaten this property. [[Applause]] In connection with this proposal, you wrote in a few places that I reduced by 50% a grant to state music schools. In the explanatory memorandum of the proposal it was no longer found, someone pointed out that it was the next, as to say, fact that had nothing to do with reality. That's what you wrote, in two places you wrote about the fact that the Minister of Culture should be called off, that he reduced by 50%. grants to state music schools. [[Non-public.]] We're making new ones. [[Applause]] It says state, let's not argue, we'll speak like that. I'm saying that the state... [[You have to listen.]] ...and it was about something completely different. You don't understand. For 8 years you have not sorted this out and therefore the debt associated with these grants has grown to about PLN 200 million. We straightened it out immediately, yes, we reduced public subsidies on public authority. [[So she was telling the truth.]] Because it's rational and true. You didn't do it, but you didn't pay... [[Voice from the room: That's what she said.]] [[That's what she said.]] ...and you have indebted Poland, sir, to PLN 200 million. [[So she was telling the truth.]] These are the claims against the Polish state of those who did not pay these subsidies because you have not changed the legal basis, Mr President. [[She was telling the truth.]] That's the truth. That's the truth. [[She told me the truth.]] Once again, I am saying that it is not true because the Member has written about state music schools. We're making new music schools. The Member sits and laughs because she forced one beautiful music school into the Minister of Culture, and we are very proud of it. [[Me too.]] And not only that, my fellow Member. We develop artistic education in Poland. Another Member says that the NID is a repeat of the IPN. You're confusing the institutions. The National Heritage Institute is a completely different institution, dealing with something else, expertise in monuments. Madam, I am speaking to you because you have made a mistake, I think. [[Applause]] Oh, no, that lady's not here. Excuse me. She was sitting next to a friend. I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: Your mouse.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] In any case, what you've presented is, from a factual point of view, there's actually some comedy of error. On the other hand, I have to address a number of important issues, because it is essential for the public to explain, first and foremost, those misrepresentations that you have unfortunately presented here. The transaction we made on 29 December 2016 included the purchase of 86 thousand. objects, works of art, 250,000. volumes in the library, as well as the purchase of possible claims concerning those works that have disappeared. The Member ridiculed it, but we all know that. Everyone who knows a little about it knows that Rafael's painting most likely exists somewhere. If a young man's portrait is found, remember the state, it is the property of the Polish people, not private property of some aristocratic family. [[Applause]] And the image itself on the market would most likely have a value greater than the price at which we bought the Czartoryski collection. As part of this transaction we also received a donation of real estate, which is located in Krakow, but also a palace in Sieniawa. Minister of Agriculture, I know that Sieniawa has been given up, but she is in the hands of the State Treasury, because in the course of the transaction we assured that Czartoryski gave up his claims to Sieniawa. We also sort out other people's claims in court, there were cases... You either don't know it, or you don't want to know it, or it's related to the tabloidization of politics... [[It's a pill.]] ...that the collection's property wasn't consistent. Part of the collection was owned by the foundation. Mr President, listen to me, because it's worth knowing the details, because... [[I'm listening all the time.]] ...your press releases show that you have a fairly limited knowledge of the subject, and you have spoken using very strong invectives. [[Facts.]] The ownership of this collection was very diverse. Partly it was the property of the foundation, partly private property of the prince, as well as claims, among others. Mr. Zamoyski. We cleaned it up, too. [[Voice from the gym: You cleaned the money.]] These claims were waived and this threat was also zeroed and it existed. The purchase of the collection - and I am addressing the public here - was made at the request and in response to the strenuous efforts of Polish museums, art historians, people who simply knew the collection and knew the foundation for years. It was supported by the legal expertise of a renowned law firm of legal counsels, precisely art and culture specialists. [[Voice from the courtroom: What about the prosecutors?]] If this is about the firm you're talking about, I don't even know who it is, I didn't use it personally. [[You know, you know.]] But you, of course, love insinuations. Yeah, because it's, you know, such a dirty policy. You can insinuate things. [[This is the one from Solvere.]] You were talking about the second day. The bottom of me today is associated with something else in this room. [[Applause, joy in the hall]] [[With your friends.]] This purchase was supported by the Polish National Committee of ICOM, i.e. the international council on museums, the most prestigious organization that deals with museum issues, by the council on museums at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in the composition appointed by my predecessors, not by me, by the board of the Polish Artists' Union, by the former director of the National Museum in Cracow, the current director of the National Museum in Cracow and the entire community associated with the foundation, but I think that in general the entire community of Polish art historians. The collection and purchase of this collection, the entire transaction was checked by NIK, with the president coming from your political camp, practically the day after the purchase. The reviewers of NIK were in the ministry for 3 months and this is what Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, writes in his post-control speech: No one questions the legality of the contract or the fact that because of its subject matter it was unique and unprecedented in history. [[It's a fact, I agree.]] Even the functioning Supreme Audit Chamber, from your broadcast, has issued such an assessment after a three-month transaction review, Mr Grupinski. As soon as the deal was made, we had this control of the NIK. The transaction was fully transparent from the beginning and carried out in accordance with Polish law and by authorized persons. It was also done... You send flies at me. Excuse me, Member. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[We're doing the best we can.]] You're trying, yeah. The whole transaction has been made - and this is also important, and here I appeal to the public - from budgetary savings. Thanks to the work of our government, thanks to the excellent work of the Ministry of Finance, thanks to the sealing of the budget, economic development we managed to achieve budget savings at the end of the year. [[Voice from the room: You should have given the disabled.]] Mr President, I wish you, if you are in the government, that you also have such successes and that you can achieve this. You didn't. [[Applause]] You didn't, and we did. [[It was still our budget - for 2016.]] This was done by combining these two elements. On the one hand, We knew that there would be budgetary savings and we could try on such a purchase for the good of Poland, for the Treasury and for the entire Polish society. [[Voice from the room: What savings?]] [[Voice from the room: There wasn't.]] From the budget savings. Madam, because you know how to finance, as you know perfectly well, you can make one-off purchases for such savings. [[And you had to invest in the equipment.]] As we have made purchases of medical equipment, we have also made these savings the purchase of works of art, inalienable, of great value, the most beautiful Polish cultural collection. [[And the money for the disabled is gone.]] [[Then why didn't you put it on the heritage list? Why don't you answer that question?]] We've combined this fact of budget savings... It wasn't the money we could use, for example. next year for pension reform or some other social, very important expenditure. You know that very well. [[But to buy medical supplies...]] [[For the purchase of equipment for disabled people.]] Such purchases are and have been made. I understand you don't think there's any need to shop in the cultural area, do you? [[No, it's okay.]] Well, then we have to. [[You have to sell.]] Thank you very much, ma'am. That's what we did. [[Applause]] And we've combined budget savings, ladies and gentlemen, with a very difficult transaction. First of all, we had to get our partner's consent, because the other party had to agree to what we proposed and make a very complicated transaction. I told you what she was covering. And we managed to do it all. It was kind of a miracle. [[Voice from the room: 2 days.]] [[Voice from the hall: Miracle.]] I am personally proud of the fact that we bought a priceless thing for Poland and the Polish people for budgetary savings and for a fraction of the value. [[Applause]] [[But why didn't you put it on the heritage list?]] As for the arguments often raised that the law protected against sale, that we unnecessarily spent money, because it was the protection of the collection - that, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. It's just a lie. If someone keeps saying that, even though they know the arguments behind the thesis, that unfortunately the collection was not fully protected, in many dimensions... [[It was the PiS Member who said so.]] She wasn't protected, sir. [[Because of you, because you didn't write it.]] Polish law did not protect the collection, including, of course, Dames with the group. Nor did it protect against decisions deriving from property rights. I don't know... [[Yeah, I don't know again.]] ...maybe some of you have experience with the Polish People's Republic, but ownership... [[Time.]] ...which since 1989, however, in Poland seems to have taken on meaning, because the Polish People's Republic has ended, is important. The collection was not even covered by legal protection. There was no entry in the museum inventory, there was no entry in the register of monuments, although such a census is usually made by the will of the owner, but in exceptional circumstances it can also be imposed. You didn't do it. [[The Palace of Culture...]] Such protection would not solve the problem either, because the key issue is ownership and ownership of the property. [[The entry.]] The entry in the register or even on the list of Heritage Treasures - I will get to it right away, because it is very important - would not protect from sales or temporary exports, nor would it guarantee that the collections would be made available to the public. That's the experience. That's the experience. In Poland, the lady with the group was not presented for 6 years, ladies and gentlemen. She drove around the world for four years at all. In the last few decades 13 times was exported from Poland and since the 1990s. Nine times it was exported from Poland. [[Because you need the conservator's approval.]] Mr Grupiński, it has been exported from Poland nine times. [[But without the Minister's permission, she wouldn't have left anyway.]] Yeah, but the government would change, the minister would be out of your party, and she'd ride again. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] So that's what I wanted to protect you from because your minister gave you permission. [[But you can rent today, too.]] The Prime Minister is shaking her head, but she's the minister in your government... No, were you Omilanowska already? It was in the previous government of PO-PSL that the minister gave such consent and... Dama... rode. [[Can't he spend it today? Maybe, too.]] [[You're terrified of helplessness.]] But the threat to the collection is not just export. This is not just a question of export. I say again: this is a matter of making it available to the public. This collection was not made available to the public, the renovation of the Czartoryski buildings has been ongoing since 2010. This renovation would take a long time. The foundation used to come for money all the time. There was no guarantee that this investment would ever end. [[Once and for all.]] There was no conservation protection, there was just ownership protection. Those things were in the crates somewhere, weren't they? But there was no conservation protection. There was no security. This is also a clear legal opinion. Enough of that, an entry on the Treasure List. He also did not protect the collection and there was no protection from its division and dispersion. [[Of course she was.]] It wasn't, because only property can guarantee full security. Once again, I stress to you and stress that none of the forms of legal protection replaces the power of the Treasury over the movable thing which ensures the acquisition of full ownership rights. The Heritage Treasure List is just a form of limitation of ownership... [[Which you supported.]] ...which doesn't change anything about the ownership status of moving things. Mr President, to what you are saying, to what I supported. Do you know what we voted on and what we supported? [[Yeah, a match to the tribunal's judgment.]] No, not a match to the sentence, just a match to the amendment that was in the meantime. [[And for the amendment, yes. That's right.]] Yes. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're wrong, another one isn't. That's what you're saying. [[Voice from the gym: Gimbaza doesn't understand.]] Regulation of 28 April 2017 The regulation is prepared. [[With a list.]] The regulation on the list, Madame, is prepared. This is false information... [[Six months after the deal.]] ...which were also in the explanatory memorandum. [[No attachment, no list.]] If you want to explain what's in this regulation, come here and tell me. [[You can't ask questions because you changed the rules.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is the publication?]] The regulation is issued, but it is, I don't know, either a lie or a lack of professionalism to say or write in the application that there is no regulation. It's out. [[Six months after the deal.]] However, it is true that it is not used because this law has proved unnecessary. This law proved unnecessary for two reasons. First of all, this law is very expensive. It is a law that says that to enter a work of art on the Heritage Treasure List - not everyone who listens to us, knows that - the work of art requires a description and valuation every time. 86,000. works of art. Can you imagine what that would look like? It was used not to preserve the collection, but to preserve individual works. It's true. It's true. [[The collection, too.]] Therefore, the List of Heritage Treasures, if we could interpret that it was not used to protect the collection, and individual works, simply did not change anything in the form and in terms of the risks that were involved in the collection. That's why you had to buy it. And the other thing is even more interesting and dangerous at the same time. Namely, the second point is that when a given work is included in the list of Heritage Treasures, and is subject to threat, from conservation threats to threats concerning exports, theft, destruction, etc., in which case, please, according to this amendment... [[A constant threat, a constant threat.]] Mr President, I was at a committee meeting today, and that is what I said, as you remember. Yeah, it's permanent. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...in the event of a threat involving the possibility of destruction, damage, theft, etc., if it is not possible to remove the threat, i.e. permanent - this is the case - the moving monument entered on the list of treasures of heritage is taken over - not as in the previous law concerning voivodship conservationists - for the property of the State Treasury, but for compensation corresponding to the market value of this monument. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was the one who preferred to pay Czartoryski 5%. You, I understand, prefer to pay 100%. [[Voice from the room: That's the point.]] [[You didn't have to pay here at all.]] Because the fact that this collection was constantly under threat is more than certain. She was in constant danger, in expert opinion. This threat, once again, concerned: improper conservation of collections, legal threats to the change of the Foundation's statute. In Poland, foundations change their statutes, courts decide it and... [[The voice from the room: It was you who made it happen.]] Oh, no, no thanks to me. [[You're the one who pushed me.]] Thanks to this expert mentioned here by the applicant. Namely, it was Mr Wolski, who was then head of the foundation, who applied to change the charter of the Czartoryski Foundations. This change was intended to enable the Polish state to purchase for the nation of the Polish collection. What happened that Mr. Wolski changed his mind at the last minute, I don't know, ask your expert. The legal threat also concerns changes e.g. internal or European law. After all, the law can change, but it is very unlikely that it will change in the area of property rights. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] That's why we thought ownership was the best way to secure the collection. Finally, the legal threat concerns the risk of claims to the collection. I told you there was a claim like that. What you were also talking about here, that tabloids show some family stories, etc., also indicates that the very real threat to the collection was a very real threat. We cleaned it up. There was also a very high risk and risk of not exposing the collection, which was mentioned by specialists from the National Museum in Cracow, who cooperate in this collection. There was also a risk of temporary trips - sometimes when something leaves the borders of the country - the risk of dividing and dispersing the collection, as I said, and the risk of very high costs of applying the law. These high costs of application of the law they relate both to the apparatus that the Minister would have to build to type and evaluate those works that would be included on the Heritage Treasury List, as well as for example. with the purchase I mentioned at market prices. Why, even though the Deputy Minister was the author of this law, was it a parliamentary project? E.g. because in order not to apply the OSR, the OSR would have to take into account the purchase of e.g. The Czartoryski collection for 100%, because such probability was due to this law. We've been fighting this whole thing. We have led to the purchase for Polish society, for the Treasury of this most valuable Polish art collection at a price relatively - although this is a large sum - small. So many substantive comments about these different misunderstandings that arise from your relationship. This is a sad situation... [[Voice from the room: Very.]] ...that Polish politics is turning into a tabloid slaughter. [[That's what you said in the Super Express.]] Some amount of money transferred, the minister's supposed to be responsible. [[Because when he signed a deal like this...]] No, you sold everything for pennies, everything that Polish people sold for pennies, and we bought something for the Polish people for a relatively small sum. [[Applause]] [[The money's in Liechtenstein.]] You are still pursuing this tabloid policy, Mr President. Happy birthday. I tried to explain to you calmly what were the reasons for buying this collection and something that is very valuable to the Polish country and what I managed to do, because really budget savings at the end of the year, which do not increase the planned deficit, can be allocated to very different things, including culture. [[But they've increased the deficit.]] Let us be glad that the Polish state has enriched itself with such a great treasure. [[Applause]] [[And Liechtenstein for 500 million.]] 500 million, sir? How do you speak in the Polish Seym? [[500 million PLN.]] Yeah, that's right. [[Voice from the room: You could always say that.]] [[If we were to moralize you every time, it wouldn't take time.]] And two more threads because you moved them. [[The voice from the hall: Jesus Mary, the Lord will see on the clock, 11 minutes above the time the Lord is speaking.]] [[Voice from the room: Do you know the rules?]] [[Voice from the room: And so what?]] But, sir, you will become Marshal of the Sejm - I congratulate you and wish you to stay - you will decide that. [[Voice from the room: Rules of Procedure.]] [[Voice from the room: The rules are.]] For now, your marshal hasn't thrown me out because of what you've been saying and what you've got... [[How much punishment for the envoy?]] Would I punish you, Member? [[Applause]] [[We're paying here.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: your marshal punishes everyone.]] Well, now she's very, very, very kind, as you can see. [[Graceful, but only for you.]] I don't know, she's just understanding. [[Voice from the room: It's not understanding. It's a bit of a ploy, isn't it?]] [[You can't stand the power of argument.]] But there are two things I'd like to say to you. [[In the middle of her sentence, she turned off the mic to the marshals.]] But, as you know, there are Rules of Procedure for the Sejm, Mr. Chairman. [[It's the same for all of us.]] Well, yeah. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u498	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already referred you to the article. Article 179 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and I encourage you to read them. If you knew what it said, you wouldn't have any comment on me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But why did you pass the rules? Why did you change it?]] Prime Minister, continue. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: I remember, Prime Minister, how you allowed debates and discussions when you were a marshal in this Seym. I remember perfectly, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But this marshal of yours won't let us speak, we're talking about it.]] Two facts I would like to state in relation to these various innuendoes that you have been telling. Politicalisation of public media. In Poland there are 20 media companies, 60 people are on supervisory boards. Norma, it was in your day too. Of these 60 people, only 5 are people delegated by the Minister of Culture. Only 5 out of 60 people, this is what your politicisation of public media looks like, most of which are people employed in public administration even before our governments, that is simply specialists from the Property Supervision Department or the Department of Intellectual Property and Media in my ministry. This is the politicisation of public media culture by the Ministry of Culture. And now the statistics on changes in cultural institutions. Most cultural institutions in Poland are self-government institutions. The Minister of Culture has little to say about the functioning of these institutions, but he supports them very often in many different programmes. As regards the delay of these programmes, it may also be worth explaining, because you have been accusing us of some delays, these delays in the implementation of the programmes are, we have warned about it, but they are due to the fact that somehow no one has prepared the relevant regulations on the implementation of European regulations on permitted state aid. You haven't prepared this country. It was only after I came to the ministry that our team had to prepare this, which unfortunately extended the procedures for public financing of various projects through the Minister's programmes. We explained it, this information is known, so please don't repeat it untrue that it's some kind of surprise. This had to happen because we had to adapt the right to European regulation, because it was not done. At 109 institutions under the authority of the Minister of Culture, supervised and co-chaired by the Minister of Culture, I do not count artistic schools at the moment, the change of heads of these institutions occurred only in 25 institutions. That for 2.5 years of new power is, I think, a very decent result. [[The platform's still in control.]] Two shifts to 10 theatres, including the theatres, sir. I knew they'd criticize me on the right. [[We're asking for more.]] Two shifts in 10 theatres. I gave up on my colleagues to suck up to you, sir, [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I want to be fair. [[What kind of vocabulary is that?]] 25 changes to 109 cultural institutions. This is a good indication, I think, of these cultural institutions, that there is stability there and that the minister did not have to, minister censor, yes, Mr. President, did not have to use any extraordinary means. Polish culture develops under conditions of full freedom, sir, full of creative freedom and creative opportunities that our creators can implement. These stories of yours about my horrible crimes in these fields, I don't know, I think they come from a large dose of subjectivism in your assessments. [[Voice from the room: Such imagination.]] High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! Thank you for listening to my explanations. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] [[Your marshal couldn't stand the performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u499	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Request for the removal of Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (print No 2490). Group of Members pursuant to Article. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have requested that Mr Marek Kuchciński be dismissed as Marshal of the Sejm and that Mrs Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska be elected Marshal of the Sejm. I ask that Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz speak in order to present the reasons for the proposal. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Authority, responsibility, seriousness, honesty, reason are these concepts and these are the attributes... [[Unknown concepts.]] ...which for many years characterized many Marshals of the Sejm from many different parties. I would like to address Marshal Kuchciński, but I see that he did not have the courage to face difficult questions and opinions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] presented by Members of the opposition. [[Voice from the room: Sitting.]] [[Voice from the room: Hello, sitting.]] Hiding in, one, two, three, four, fifth row, good. Mr. Marshal Kuchciński... [[Voice from the room: Humility to keep.]] ...I would like to tell you without any procedure that you were meant to serve the people, to serve the constitution, and that you were simply serving as a party tool. [[Applause]] You're acting like the head of the Russian Duma, not the marshal of the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] Your attitude can be summarised in three words: irresponsibleness, servitude, cowardice. Even the debate about your cancellation of the current civilization camp decided to move in the middle of the night because you're afraid of a harsh assessment of the citizens, because you're just ashamed that you have such a marshal. So far almost every Marshal of the Sejm has enjoyed great trust in Polish society, public opinion. In their second most important office in the country, the Marshals of the Sejm built the image of statesmen and serious politicians. [[Yes, Bronek Komorowski.]] In the meantime, Mr. Marshal Kuchciński, according to one of the last polls, he trusts only one quarter of Polish citizens. The Poles do not want you in this position, the Members do not want you in this position, because you are simply not fit for this function. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: This is our marshal.]] Even your party buddies know that, but they're gonna defend you, we know that, they're gonna protect you, but it's just... [[Voice from the room: We defend.]] ...the consistency of party solidarity. [[Voice from the hall: It's called loyalty.]] High Izbo! The current way in which the Sejm's proceedings are held is a clear denial of the civilised parliament. [[Voice from the hall: What is this new fashion?]] These are the eastern standards in the European country so far. The Poles see it and the Poles are ashamed of you, Marshal. You're not just breaking the constitution, you know. By holding the election of doubles as judges of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[They're ashamed of you.]] ... You're not just breaking the bill by refusing, among other things. Members of Parliament have access to documents signed in support of judges who have become part of the National Judicial Council, and you are even breaking parliamentary customs when the head of the club requests a break, and instead of announcing this break, in accordance with the parliamentary custom, you are punishing. [[Voice from the hall: Ajay...]] [[I'll have a handkerchief.]] The Marshal of the Sejm, if he is to be honored, must first of all respect the Members, and you have repeatedly failed to show this respect to the Members of the opposition. And today you don't experience that respect. We, Members of the Republic of Poland, are simply ashamed of you, Mr. Marshal Kuchciński. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Parliament is the place of political dispute and this is its role. This is where the different views are supposed to clash, and this is where the parliamentary debate is to be held, even the sharpest. This seymous platform is supposed to be a political ring in which even the sharpest political arguments will clash, and you, Mr. Marshal, instead of taking on the role of judge in this political ring, you simply put on gloves and stand up to fight as a player of the national change. [[A woman's boxer.]] You are blocking the possibility for Members of the opposition to speak. You're wrongfully dismissing the case. [[Voice from the courtroom: You're the lady.]] He's asking for financial penalties. [[Good for you.]] [[The time will come for him.]] High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! When you were going to power, you were talking about the democratic package. As soon as you took power, instead of this democratic package you introduced into the Sejm, into the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm such a muzzle package, which limits the possibility for Members of the opposition to speak. [[Otherwise, you'd be biting.]] Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! It's because of you, it's because of the family change camp. This Seym is probably going to go down in history as the muzzle Sejm. [[Mr. Marshal, why don't you draw attention to the right side?]] In this muzzle Seym, during your work on judicial laws in April, you prevented Members of the opposition from asking questions, and it was about very important laws that changed the Polish system. In this muzzle Seym, you prevented us, Members of the opposition, from making formal proposals during the work on judicial laws in April. In this muzzle Seym similar situations conflicting with the Polish constitution, contrary to laws, contrary to the rules are on the agenda. But we will not allow the Polish parliament to be muzzled. No penalties, no threats, no unlawful attempts to limit the parliamentary debate in the long run will succeed. We'll keep talking about all your mistakes... [[Voice from the room: Something similar.]] ...we will continue to speak out loud about all your attacks on democracy and the destruction of the Constitution. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! For nearly three years, you've been providing practically every day evidence that the marshal function, the other person's function in the country has simply outgrown you. It's not a personal assessment, so that's clear. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This episode you were appointed to by President Kaczyński is simply not for you. It's just that you're simply out of your depth in the world. And this isn't about recent events, when you just disobeyed the Sejm's rules, you didn't allow the opposition to speak. The point is that you are destroying the standards of Polish parliamentarianism in a permanent and premeditated manner. The list of your political sins is really very long. I'd just like to remind you of a few of them. You are personally responsible for the biggest crisis of Polish parliamentarianism, which we faced in December 2016, when you excluded the opposition Member from the meeting without any grounds. You are voting in which not only do you not know who voted, but even whether you were against the laws, as you did with the vote on the budget in 2017. You tried to limit journalists' access to the Sejm and thus access to information about the work of politicians for citizens. Why? Because the cash change is just afraid of people looking at your hands. You've been keeping a bill in the freezer for years... [[Voice from the hall: There is no freezer in the Seym.]] ...which are not only very important to citizens, but whose absence often leads to very serious crises, as is the case for example. in the case of persons with disabilities. It is you who is responsible for the fact that a dozen meters from this place have been protesting for 21 days determined mothers and people with disabilities themselves. That's your responsibility. You use regulatory tricks to prevent the establishment of investigative committees to deal with the most appalling issues in Poland, such as the collapse of many SKOKs and the illegal section of the Białowieża Forest. At the same time, this practically daily practice in this Parliament has become the adoption of laws within 24 hours. [[But we're fit.]] Yes. And, of course, you have most of it. And, of course, you make the laws you want, but this speed of sprinting of the laws makes the Sejm not so much adopt the laws as you really do legal bubbles, which you have to correct yourself in a moment. As with the Supreme Court Act, the third amendment of the December Act. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] You allow your Members to speak outside the rule of law, as was the case with President Kaczyński and his famous traitorous murders. Nor do you respond to unworthy behavior and words that fall from the Seym Court, and when someone says to you, "Miss Marshal, my dear, you are offended. [[Well, that's what the guy said.]] You made the Sejm a fortified camp. The Seym is now surrounded by police fences and stickers. You allowed armed police troops to enter Parliament in December 2016. The Polish parliament was like scenes from Belarus and Ukraine. Even Jaruzelski in martial law wasn't serious, and you did. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You don't remember martial law.]] You allow yourself to speak to fellow citizens, citizens of the Republic of Poland, about the relaxation and retort, [[Applause]] Lively taken out of totalitarian propaganda, from the worst patterns. You're bringing ridiculous trials to citizens about violating myrtle house, trials, all of which ended in acquittal of citizens. Do you think this Sejm, the Polish Parliament, is your private farm? Today's decision of the Sejm is completely closed to the citizens. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, why don't you calm the room down?]] Only people who work here with permanent passes can enter. How do you imagine the functioning of the Polish parliament without the participation of non-governmental organisations, e.g. On the committee's work? You simply prevent citizens from exercising their civil rights, and Members and Senators from exercising their mandate. [[You guys were the ones blocking the platform.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you know Art? 61 the Constitution, which states that the right of citizens to obtain information includes the admission to the meetings of the collegial public authorities from the general elections? Do you know this article? [[Applause]] High Izbo! The Sejm of the Republic needs a marshal who can uphold its dignity and rights, who can rise above political divisions and cooperate with all groups in the Sejm. That is why we request that Mr Marek Kuchciński be dismissed from the function of Marshal of the Polish Sejm... [[Niesiołowski for the marshal!]] ... Ms Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska was also appointed as Marshal of the Sejm. [[We are about to call off the Member.]] High Izbo! Anyone who takes full authority has to face full responsibility, and that also means answering even the most difficult questions that are asked in the public interest, in the interests of the citizens. If here, in the Polish Parliament, there is no room for even the most difficult parliamentary debate, then we see what is happening: this debate is moving to the street. In the spirit of responsibility for the standards of public debate, we speak loudly for Polish democracy: not the methods and manner of conducting the proceedings of the Sejm, which we have been observing for almost 2,5 years in the performance of Mr. Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! We know you won't be canceled. [[Joy in the Chamber]] After all, for the last two years, it's the party pals we see here, the smiles... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, are you deaf? Come on. Come on. Come on.]] ...and not the responsibility for the state, they decide on the most important interests of this future change that we are dealing with. But even if you continue to prevent us, try to prevent us from having a parliamentary debate, even if you try to prevent us from asking questions. We're still gonna continue to apply for your resignations... [[Amazing.]] ...to dismiss simply incompetent people from responsible positions. [[Voice from the room: He denies himself.]] Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! As we know that today you will not be cancelled, we are equally sure that the Polish Parliament will return to seriousness, respect for the law, respect for the constitution... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the hall: If you're not there.]] ...only then will neither you nor your colleagues be in this parliament anymore. [[Applause]] And of these Belarusian standards, which you introduced into the Polish Parliament, you will be severely settled. [[Voice from the courtroom: You're scaring me.]] Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! The argument for your resignation is more than enough. Let me tell you something that you, as a man, should really know: any man of honor in your place would have resigned a long time ago... [[Voice from the hall: He would commit harakiri.]] He didn't wait for him to be called off. You wouldn't count on this partying, you would just look the truth in the eye and see that to this function, to which Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński has appointed you, you are simply not suitable and that this is what respect for Polish parliamentarianism requires, that is what respect for citizens requires, that is simply respect for Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this requires respect for the reputation of the Polish Sejm. [[Time's up.]] That's why today...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u501	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u502	...to the end, that's enough... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u503	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Twelve seconds had to be added.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u504	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the motion to dismiss Mr Marek Kuchciński from the role of Marshal of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal! Referring to the outrageous statement made by the honourable Member, I would like, on behalf of all the Members of the Law and Justice, but I hope that, on behalf of many of the opposition, I would also like to accept an apology for this outrageous behaviour, for this outrageous proposal. [[Applause]] I would like you to accept the words of appreciation for the work you have done for us so far for the entire House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Financial prizes.]] [[Voice from the room: Łubu-dubu, Łubu-dubu...]] Please consider the embarrassment shown by the Member for your marshal as a token of great honor and great gratitude. This is the only way to consider the shame of the Member, he is worth nothing more. [[Voice from the hall: Where are the flowers?]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, one can say yes: the proposal for a marshal's appeal, the motion for a vote of distrust is the law of the opposition for lions, but it must be assessed whether this proposal is substantive or political. [[Voice from the room: Material.]] Of course, it is advisable to say, potentially, substantive allegations. One of the most important points in the opinion of the Member is that she cannot submit formal proposals to her will. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that formal requests under the rules of procedure currently in force may be submitted in writing during the sitting. [[I can see that.]] So don't be surprised that these proposals, these dozens of proposals at each meeting that you are making, cannot normally be taken into account in the world. [[Depends on what he's reporting, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Muzzle package.]] The second of the basic allegations is that you cannot ask questions during votes. Here's where the art bows. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules [[The new Sejm's Rules of Procedure.]] ...the current Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which says that the Marshal indicates that questions may be asked during the vote if this is the decision of the Marshal. Indeed, if the State refers to 18, to 12 April, that was the agreement. She was repealed at a certain stage of the meeting. Therefore, do not be surprised that these questions could not be asked at the time, because, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, that was the decision. So if we look at these conclusions... Another charge is that often projects are parliamentary projects under the cover of government projects. That was exactly the wording in the proposal. I must tell you that the Marshal of the Sejm has no authority to investigate who has drawn up the bill. If it meets the formal requirements, if supported by an appropriate number of Members, it is obliged to bring it to the session of the Sejm within a specified time limit. [[Voice from the room: Weak.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that theoretically and seemingly the conclusions are substantive, that there is a substantive justification, it is impossible to believe that the applicants did not know that they were pressing charges against the rules that are in force today. There's no doubt about that. So this is an absolutely political proposal. If this is a political proposal, you have to ask yourself whether anyone can benefit from such a proposal. And here the answer is also clear. Unfortunately, no one, even the state, even the opposition. [[Sovereign.]] The Marshal of the Sejm is the second person in the country. The Marshal of the Sejm is the person who represents the Sejm outside. He's a person who cares about the seriousness of this Sejm that represents us. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: That is what we want.]] [[Exactly.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your conclusions, your unfounded conclusions, lower the seriousness of the Sejm and act against each other, cut the branch on which they sit. [[Applause]] [[The Seym has long been a fake.]] [[And the cockroaches?]] A lot of round words, a lot of words that we hear half the term, but no substantive justification. There is no reason, ladies and gentlemen, that even in the slightest part the motion is justified. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, oppose this proposal and count on many Members of the opposition in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u505	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Lenz will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing you're talking about the D.A. That's great. Maybe that's where I'll start if you want to send the D.A. to me. You're sending me the D.A.'s office, aren't you? You, Mr. Suski? Yeah, 'cause that's your way of ruling. I have a question for Marshal Kuchciński. Do you remember... [[What's he for?]] Mr. Marshal, I'm talking to the MPs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u507	Mr President, please address...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u508	...who yell at me that they're gonna send the D.A.'s office on me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u509	I haven't heard, but of course don't yell at me from the gym.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u510	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u511	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u512	I have a question for you, Marshal Kuchciński. I will remind him of an important day in this House when Mrs Zwierzan voted for two hands, using a voting machine like a piano, voting, wanting not to, in favour of Mr Morawiecki, the Prime Minister's dad. It just so happened, he didn't have any control over it. [[Voice from the room: Don't pick on your family.]] [[Voice from the hall: The whole Poland saw it.]] [[Voice from the room: Leave the family alone.]] I hear the footage's been secured, Mr. Marshal. Where are they? In your drawer, in your desk? Where are they? The D.A. doesn't do that until today. [[Applause]] There isn't, Mr. Marshal, in the black hole. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Let me remind you that Marshal Borowski was the first person to refer the case to the prosecutor's office at the time when the SLD Members behaved like this. As you know, there's been a conviction in this case. You're not doing anything about it. And you say you take care of the rule of law, order in this Seym, where you vote for two hands? [[Applause]] And why is that? Because Mrs. Mirror voted with the PiS. She broke the law so she could vote another person into a body that was still elected against the constitution. [[Applause]] And you just approve of it all, and you're in charge of it, this criminal act. [[Voice from the room: Consider the words.]] Mr. Marshal! I haven't known you since today. You're a decent, decent man. What happened to you? Ladies and gentlemen... [[You threw yourself at the envoy here.]] Let Mr Suski calm down, because I know he always gets a little carried away. A little peace. [[Like the Tsarica.]] Mr. Marshal! You were the first person in the history of the Polish Sejm, the first marshal who failed to cope during the session because one of the Members said really meaningless words: Mr. Marshal, dear. Mr Szczerba said so. And it would seem... What can go on in the Chamber when Mr Szczerba says such words? As a result of these words... [[Maybe he should talk to Lenz like that.]] ... the lack of control over your emotions, the lack of control over the House and the use of the Sejm's rules have led you to move the Sejm's deliberations to the column hall for the first time in history on 16 December 2016. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Illegally!]] [[It's been abandoned, too.]] Ba, moved for the first time and locked the door in front of the rest of the parliamentary clubs. That's what I'm talking about. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] Right. We couldn't go in there. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Marshal moved the deliberations to the column room... [[I've got pictures.]] [[Put your finger away.]] Let me remind Mr. Suski that there are supporting documents on who voted and who did not vote in this column room. There are also recordings confirming that there are Members who are supposedly voting... [[You were, but you didn't vote.]] Can you please calm Mr. Suski... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u513	I'm trying, I'm trying.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u514	Either give him a melissa or calm him down. Well, do your best, Marshal, please. [[The voice from the room: Why?]] Yes? So let me remind you that there's a recording on which Minister Ziobro, the Minister of Justice, sign the attendance list the day after the meeting in the column room... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...and it is confirmed in the documents that he voted in this vote. Crime, the D.A.'s office. What are you doing about it? [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Prosecutor's office!]] You've led Parliament to be a fake. This isn't even the Parliament of the Polish People's Republic. These things didn't happen there. [[Voice from the room: What do you know about it?]] [[The voice from the hall: Dad passed it on.]] The pressure you're under... [[And leaks.]] ...to your president Kaczyński, they make you turn the Sejm into a fake. We meet here once a month, parliamentarians. This is a strange public opinion that is critical of this: Why do parliamentarians not work? [[If you don't work, you don't work.]] Why do they meet so rarely, meet once a month? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, my fellow Member, I will tell you why we meet once a month. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] So on TV, public media...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u515	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u516	...do not show critical opinions about the PiS...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u517	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u518	...because you're just afraid of it... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u519	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Poselski Club, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u520	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to apologize to the opposition for what Mr Buda said and for what he said, because he was definitely missing the truth. [[Applause]] So I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Marshal, dear, this has already been quoted twice today. It was such a good thing that the fall of the authority of Marshal Kuchciński began from reacting to these words. But let's remember. Mr. Marshal was responsible for bringing about the greatest crisis in Polish parliamentarianism for many years. It was your actions that led in our view to unlawful proceedings over the budget law in the column room. It was with your permission that Members of the opposition were deprived of their ability to perform their duties. It was in the Seym room that armed men showed up and you didn't react, and that's unacceptable. You're the one who lets laws that change the state's system bypass the constitutional rules. It is you, Mr. Marshal, who, in the framework of the anti-democratic package, has introduced a new rule of law to the Sejm, which, for a good cause, makes the opposition clubs incapacitated by denying them the opportunity to speak, to submit formal requests or to ask questions at third reading. The new proposals concerning both the revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member show that you are moving further in this direction. The recent behaviour of your marshal, who led to your appeal, showed that the only person who really violated the Sejm on that day was the marshal. The problem is, Mr Marshal, that you make your decisions not on reasonable grounds, but on the basis of the grimace of the ordinary Member who is sitting here, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. And that's really very sad. It is rare that in such a short period there will be two requests for cancellation from the function of Marshal of the Sejm, but it must be admitted that in this case, Mr. Marshal... [[Gentlemen, maybe the front of the speaker, the front of the speaker.]] Mr. Marshal has worked very hard for this. The area of the Seym for your term of office is a besieged fortress, it's fenced... [[Mr. Suski, why don't you go ahead to the marshal?]] ...barriers, hundreds of policemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Even when protesters are disabled. Mr. Marshal is no longer in control. [[The voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, it's your colleagues who behave like this.]] You've banned the admission of persons to the Sejm on the basis of one-off passes. [[Voice from the room: Pretend you can't hear?]] Effect: the social side cannot participate in the work of the committee, and today even representatives of the government, without permanent permits, had problems entering the Sejm. The pressure that Marshal Kuchciński is subjected to, makes you, Mr. Marshal, only the executor of the President's will and acts only for the sake of the PiS. However, you have forgotten that you have also been elected by the votes of the opposition and we have the right, and we can expect you to treat all Members equally. Unfortunately, you have often shown that you discipline and punish only Members of the opposition. I do not wish to repeat at this point all the allegations that have already been put forward in your appeal request, but in some ways you have done everything you can to get the Modern Club together with the Civic Platform to file this motion. The last speeches at meetings with voters of the type: we need to unleash the house, Poland, have confirmed us even more about the validity of this proposal. The fact that we are discussing this proposal so late is a standard because most of the things you should be ashamed of are done under the cover of the night. Pushing underdeveloped laws into force, approving projects to be proceded as parliamentary projects to avoid the consultation required, all this makes the parliament under your leadership a caricature of the place where the law is created. One thing is certain, and I regret to say this: for your leadership this Sejm will become history as a Sejm of shame and shame. The Modern Club will vote in favour of dismissing the marshal from the function of Marshal of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u521	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u522	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you were elected Marshal of the Sejm on 12 November 2015 by a majority of 409 votes, many had an image of you from your previous term of office, the Vice-Marshal of favourite, who could have been trusted at the beginning of this term. And what happened? What happened to you, Marshal Kuchciński? [[Chairman.]] [[Voice from the hall: What happened to you?]] What happened that the good opinion of you was fast gone? What happened to your statement on 12 November when you said: In Polish tradition and political culture, the Sejm was a traditional forum for debate and dispute? You didn't just break that tradition, you just desecrated it. [[Applause]] What happened, Mr. Marshal, in your statement two years ago, you said: It is our duty first and foremost to make law for the common benefit of... And that's just the benefit of the PiS, not the benefit of the national community, not the social benefit, but the benefit of the PiS is the most important today. What happened to you, Mr. Marshal, that after the words you said at the time, the Sejm cannot be a good law without consultation and against the interests of society... So where's the public consultation? Today at committee meetings you do not allow professional self-government, you do not allow non-governmental organisations, you do not allow trade unions or employers' organisations. Who are you consulting? With the Social Dialogue Council between hours 1 a 2 a.m., because it takes 24 hours to adopt laws changing the state? This is the public consultation you promised in your statement from this speaker? Aren't you ashamed of yourself in human terms, just like that? What happened to what you said back then? In fulfilling the duties of the marshal of the House, I will uphold the freedom of expression of Members regardless of party membership and the right to debate between the governing camp, the majority ruling and opposition parties. You are not defending the freedom of Members, you are punishing Members for wanting to be free and have freedom of expression. You punish Members for their freedom of expression. [[Applause]] What does power do to people? This is unfortunately the best example. Or maybe it's not power, it's fear, because it's not a show of force to turn off the microphone, it's a show of gigantic weakness. [[Applause]] This is a show of gigantic weakness and fear that power, like your promises, will burst like a bubble of soap. It'll crack like a bubble of soap. Same power. And it's all coming back, folks. You had the opportunity to benefit from the experience of 550 years of Polish parliamentarianism. You had Rataj's model, which in difficult situations was headed by the Polish state. You had a Trempczynski pattern, which left a party card outside the Messenger's Room. You had Daszyński's pattern under bayonets, which he didn't open under guns and swords. But you chose another hero - Świtalski, subordinate to the warden, only following his orders, restricting the right and freedom of Members to speak. This is all a return to the past, only to the tragic past, which ended very badly for us in Poland, ended with a huge national division, the destruction of the community and the collapse of the Polish state. You are destroying the community not only in this House, because this is where the example comes from. Formal requests on paper, in writing, and questions at open written meetings because you're afraid. [[Applause]] You're scared in this room, you're afraid of meeting people. You can turn off the microphone, Marshal. You may turn out the lights and turn off the heat in this room, but you will not drown out the truth. You're not gonna black out the truth. The truth will prevail. We will vote in favour of your appeal for the victory of the truth, for the victory of true justice and defence of parliamentarians in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: To the theater.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u523	Thank you. Is the Member's representative of the applicants... She's not here. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Poselski Kukiz Club15 has comments on the work of Marshal Marek Kuchciński and is not uncritical in his assessment, but the moment of the application and the arguments contained in it convince us that it is another personal war, which is not intended to solve problems of Poles, but to settle personal animosities. That's not why we came to the Sejm. We want to work on substantive solutions, the effects of which will improve the lives of Poles, not play with personal push-ups that continue the party war. We will not take part in barren disputes that have no chance of changing anything from the beginning and serve only to fuel conflicts and individual promotion of some Members. We also do not accept the proposed candidacy of the new Marshal of the Polish Parliament. That is why we are giving up unnecessary opinions at this point and leaving our fellow Members free to decide how they are going to vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u525	We will proceed to the vote on the proposal in the voting block. [[Voice from the room: It is present.]] [[Voice from the room: Present.]] Where? Because I don't see it from here. [[Voice from the room: Glasses, Mr. Marshal.]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 May this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Simon Giżyński, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I feel my wings grow," said the aggressor mouse... [[Voice from the hall: He, he, he!]] ...and you became a bat. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Scientists claim that bats usually turn left when they leave the cave. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[What are you laughing at? That's what it says about you. This is the PiS Seym.]] [[Yes, you're right, you have to cry over you.]] [[Mr Suski, count your words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u527	Please, Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club. There is no Member. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u528	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This year, negotiations are beginning on the new budget of the European Union for 2021 and 2027. The activity of the current Polish government, the PiS government, leads us slowly to reduce EU funds allocated to Poland. The government of Donald Tusk has negotiated funds for the current years, for the years 2013 to 2020, the largest of the funds allocated to the Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately, now by the PiS government money for Poland will be less. The government's dispute with Brussels regarding the politicisation of courts, the Constitutional Tribunal or the clipping of the Białowieża Forest remains important. In recent days, the EU Commissioners have presented a draft budget for the European Union in which Central Europe, including Poland, is receiving less funding. Greater money is to be given to those countries that have greater unemployment and are taking part in the fight against the effects of illegal immigration - Greece, Italy and Spain. Poland, as the largest beneficiary of European funds, can lose the most. In addition, the European Commission is working on changes in the link between the rule of law and the budget of the European Union. In the new budgetary perspective, a mechanism may be put in place to allow the suspension of payments to countries whose governments do not comply with the rule of law. What awaits us under the current rule? The allocation of EU funds is to be decided by a majority of the European Parliament and the European Commission. The mutual veto of Kaczyński and Orban is not enough to block this decision. Once again, it turns out that the actions of the PiS government can have a negative impact on investments carried out in Poland by means of European means, i.e. on the economic development of our country and finally on the resources of our portfolios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-08-sejm-62-1.u529	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. [[Rypin, August, Macaws]] I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 9 May 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 10]]
