ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u1	Resume session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to call on Arkadiusz Myrcha, Arkadiusz Marchewka, Agata Borowiec and Sylvester Tulayev to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members of Arkadiusz Myrch and Arkadiusz Marchewka will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Myrch and Sylvester Tulaev. I would very much like to ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.45, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 12, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 5:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, - on the amendment of the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of that land, - to amend the International Agreements Act. The reports shall be in prints 3079, 3073 and 3076 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I ask you to ask Members of the Law and Justice Club, and the question will be about the possible influx of an increased number of refugees from Ukraine in connection with the declaration of martial law there. This question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Ms Renata Szczech. We begin with Mr Mark Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Due to Russia's conflict in the Azov Sea on 27 November this year. Ukrainian authorities have declared martial law on the territory of 10 circuits of the country. It cannot be ruled out that, as in 2014, the conflict will cause a wave of refugees fleeing the war, a large part of which will stop in Poland as before. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether the government has information about the possible influx of an increased number of refugees from Ukraine in Poland and whether our country is prepared for this eventuality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u5	Thank you. A further part of this question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, also by Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This situation in Ukraine - the introduction of martial law - is a new geopolitical situation and therefore an increased number of refugees is expected. And that's why my question is about the voivodship offices and the voivodship services. Does the Minister have full information that the services of the voivodships and voivodships are prepared to serve possibly such an increased number of refugees? And are there any plans to strengthen the voivodship offices in the near future on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u7	And Mr Sławomir Hajos, also in the first part of the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you the same thing, but I'm talking asylum law. If there were an increase in conflict and war activities, what about many thousands of young men from Ukraine who are already in temporary residence in Poland and will not want to return to Ukraine for fear of being drafted into the army? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is asylum law sufficiently regulated in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u9	I invite Minister Renata Jęczy to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u10	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna go over all the questions you've asked together. I'm going to put the situation first about question one. The introduction of martial law due to conflict in the Azov Sea on the territory of 10 Ukrainian regions at present does not resonate with the increased influx of refugees from Ukraine to Poland, but already on 27 November, on the date of the declaration of martial law in Ukraine, the Foreigners' Office established a special crisis management team to monitor the situation. However, it is currently impossible to say how the introduction of martial law will affect the perception of human rights in Ukraine. I'm not talking about an increased influx. This situation will be very important. She needs monitoring. At present, the situation of the civilian population in Ukraine has not changed. There is still no general threat to the lives of the civilian population due to the effects of the existing conflict. It should be noted that since the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, since 2014, a large number of Ukrainian citizens have motivated their applications for international protection in Poland fear of forced entry into the army. This kind of argument appeared even after stopping the mobilization in Ukraine. Currently, in Ukraine, a general mobilization has not yet been announced in the form of an official communication by the authorities of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and consequently the declaration of martial law should not result in a significant increase in the number of applicants for international protection in Poland for fear of forced entry into the Ukrainian army. That's the answer to the first doubt. In addition, people arriving from areas controlled by separatists justified their requests for international protection by the inability to return to their home circuit and the lack of adequate State care in areas controlled by the authorities in Kiev. However, it should be noted that the largest group of applicants were individuals from the Ukrainian circuits under the control of the authorities in Kiev. They left the country because of, among other things.: economic, health problems, criminal problems, willingness to join family members in Poland, general situation in the country of origin, willingness to continue learning in Poland or escape from creditors. The number of applications for international protection submitted by Ukrainian citizens reached the maximum at the turn of 2014 and 2015. It's been steadily decreasing ever since. The current situation may lead to renewed growth, but this is not the case where Ukrainian citizens can travel and reside in EU countries on the basis of visa-free travel rules, and the international protection procedure is not the only way of legalising their stay in Poland and other European Union countries. The current situation in Ukraine can be mainly relevant to migration phenomena. The escalation of the Ukrainian-Russian conflict in the longer term may have an impact on the increase in economic emigration from Ukraine as it may impact on the foundations of the Ukrainian economy. In addition, the introduction of martial law into part of Ukraine may potentially affect the way in which Polish authorities deal with administrative matters. It is about the commitment of Ukrainian citizens to return. However, it should be borne in mind that returnees have a security guarantee in the form of an obligation to take into account ex officio circumstances which may give rise to the authorisation of a tolerated stay. As a consequence, the Border Guard Commandant or the Border Guard Commandant, as bodies conducting the proceedings during the review phase, shall be obliged to take into account any deterioration in the situation in Ukraine, including in the course of their proceedings. Regardless of this, it should be stressed that the government has amended the Repetition Act, as a result of which the Council of Ministers can determine, by means of a regulation, countries or parts of countries other than those generally covered by the Act - and thus includes Ukraine - which citizens of Polish origin may apply for a national visa for repatriation. The Council of Ministers, when issuing this regulation, aims to provide for the possibility of repatriating people of Polish origin who are discriminated against for religious, national or political reasons or because of the situation prevailing in the country of residence which would cause life or health exposure. In the case of this procedure, Polish origin... This would be a confirmation of Polish origin during the visa procedure, i.e. such a shortened and accelerated procedure. Polish administrations are also equipped with procedures in the event of an increased influx of refugees from Ukraine. The rules for responding to the risks associated with mass migration and the activities of individual services and institutions in the event of escalation are set out in the National Crisis Management Plan. There was a question about the voivodships. Here these actions are included. This applies especially to neighbouring voivodships, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. the Podkarpackie Voivodship and the Lublin Voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u11	Thank you. Please remain on the stand, Minister, because your Members are asking questions from the benches. Mr Marek Polak will begin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If you believe in media reports, then from the incoming to Poland in recent years Ukrainian citizens could have only 5% concern for their own safety. The rest are economic migrants, treating the conflict as an opportunity for employment under better conditions. I would therefore like to ask whether we have effective methods and methods to distinguish them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u13	Mr Zbigniew Biernat will finish the second additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In fact, I had a question about this labour migration, but the Minister has already answered that question. Therefore, I wanted to ask you about the risk of diseases or various kinds of infectious diseases. Is the crisis team also in constant contact with the health department because of this? The idea is to ensure first and foremost the safety of Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u15	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u16	Thank you, Marshal. With regard to the first question from the Member, I would like to make sure that this applies to most of those who come for work. According to our statistics, foreigners from Ukraine are 97% migrants who come to us for business purposes, i.e. the so-called. economic migrants. Besides, we are just preparing with work offices, with the Foreigners' Office full of statistics, so that we can be compatible with the number of motivations here. From what we have seen at the moment, it is true that this is about almost nothing but economic foundations. In response to the second question from the Member, I would like to inform you that there are very intensive discussions at the moment about how all the actions can still be consistent, both with regard to the Minister of Health and with regard to the Chief Sanitary Inspectorate, concerning, first of all, mandatory vaccinations or the possession of these vaccinations by foreigners who come to Poland. At the moment, the foreigner is obliged to inform the consul that he has important vaccinations during the interview during the issue of the visa. However, this is not yet a requirement, so we plan to coordinate these activities, among others. with the Ministry of Health, so that you can have full information about the entire health condition, especially if a given foreigner has infectious diseases. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u17	That's it, right? [[Yes.]] Is there anything else, Minister? Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question that Mrs Anita Czerwińska and Mr Józef Leśniak ask Members of the Law and Justice. The question concerns information on all activities related to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence and is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin. Mrs Anita Czerwińska. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! We ask the Minister to sum up all the celebrations, initiatives, events in connection with the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. I think we can talk about a specific phenomenon. These celebrations were mass, they were very diverse. The impression was that practically every place in Poland commemorated this anniversary. I wanted to stress here that this is perhaps the most important thing, this Community dimension of these events, that Poles could participate in the organisation of these celebrations and be participants in an authentic, passionate way. We wanted to ask about any data regarding the participation of the state, including the financial one, in the organisation of the ceremony in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! I wanted to ask you an additional question similar to what my previous speaker has already asked. It is about organizing celebrations connected with the anniversary of regaining independence by Poland abroad. As you know, we have seen, we have seen a number of celebrations organized in various places around the world. I would also ask very much for such summation and compilation, including quota, as it looked outside Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u20	Then I ask Minister Jarosław Sellin to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Less than a month has passed since the culmination of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Thank you for these questions. We have some research that we've done after this weekend, you can say, we've done independence. It is worth recalling that the implementation of the multi-annual government programme "Independant" is planned for 6 years, for the years 2017/12022, because we wanted and want to cover not only the most important events that are already behind us, connected with the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, but also the events that led to this independence constituted its defence, sustained this independence, and also contributed to the definition of the borders of Poland of the interwar period. It is about events such as the Silesian Uprising, the Wielkopolska Uprising, Poland's access to the sea only in February 1920 or the Warsaw Battle, the defence of Polish independence in the war with the Bolsheviks, the determination of the Polish eastern border in 1921 and the western border only in 1922 by the takeover of Upper Silesia. Therefore, the implementation of this programme is so extended over time. The budget foreseen for this implementation amounts to PLN 242 million, but this amount was allocated to the implementation of the entire programme, in this time period. The budget for 2018 was PLN 80 million. I understand that these questions were such that you are interested primarily in this weekend of independence. We've already examined it after these events. Indeed, it is as you put it in your question. Participation in the celebrations was mass, it took place in an unusual way. We came out of research that on Saturday and Sunday, on November 10 and 11, about 6 million Poles came out of the house and joined some celebrations, some celebrations, 6 million Poles came out of the house and joined them, both at the local level and at the central level. I'm gonna develop it. Poles wanted to celebrate this holiday also symbolically, because it came out of research that 3/4 Poles hung a flag: of course, either the administrators of larger houses hung flags and they hung them on their homes or on individual properties. At least that's what the declarations were. Three-quarters of Poles hung a flag. As part of the events that took place On November 10th and 11th, also because of this mass, I would like to draw attention to the event that we have organized, namely the action of the independent anthem! November 11th, exactly. 12 in a thousand places in Poland and abroad Poles went to some public places organized by cultural institutions or NGOs to sing an anthem together. Exactly at the moment when the State celebrations were held at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. From the events worth mentioning in these days... November 10th, of course, a great concert for the Independent at the National Stadium, which directly watched 40,000. spectators, and 7 million Poles watched it in front of TVs, because for the first time in Polish history the event of a cultural character was broadcast by five on a daily basis generally competing television. Everyone here made up nicely and thought it was such an important concert, so important a holiday that they broadcast it jointly and severally. It was a story about Polish history by Polish song, by Polish song in very modern arrangements and with the most outstanding Polish artists. In the Independence Festival in Krakowskie Przedmieście, right after the ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier - it was a festival that lasted from hours. 13 to 12 hours 21 - 300 thousand participated. persons. The Kraków Suburb was not so besieged since the tragedy we had eight years ago, since the Smolensk disaster. It hasn't been as besieged since then as it was on November 11th. 300,000. people passed through Krakowskie Przedmieście and took advantage of the offer we offered, i.e. various attractive things in Kraków Przedmieście related to 100 years. On the occasion of the 100th anniversary to Polish museums came on this one day, i.e. November 11, 135,000. persons. Why? Because we had such exhibitions as: "Importance" at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, a very attractive exhibition; "Screaming: Poland!" in the National Museum in Warsaw; "Independence" and "Wyspański" - two exhibitions in the National Museum in Krakow; "Avant-garde and State" in the Museum of Art in Łódź; "In Poland, King Maciusz," such a perverse title, but this is the story of the Second Republic at the Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Polin; "Blask of Orders" in the Museum of Royal Lazienki. 135,000. people came out of their homes, went to museums to see occasional exhibitions, temporary dedicated to 100 years of regaining independence. In 22 places in Poland and around the world - 11 in Poland, 11 in the world - concerts took place in the best concert halls from Chicago to Tokyo, concerts of Polish musical works composed in the last 100 years, works of Polish composers from the last 100 years. It was a program of 100 over 100. Musical decades of freedom. As for the foreign events that you have asked about, we have a total of 400 planned during the implementation of this programme, but for example. just on the weekend of independence there were concerts in two cities of South Korea, at the Royal Albert Hall in London, the opera "Back of Manru" in Kiev, the exhibition of Polish art in Gothenburg, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Paris, Kaunas and many other places. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u22	Do you also want to ask the question whether this is an exhaustive answer? [[Thank you.]] Thank you. Thank you, Minister. It's all at this point. As far as questions are concerned, we move on to the next one. They will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform, the first question - Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska and the second question - Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz. Question on the 24th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP24) in Katowice. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. I would like to ask you, Madam, for the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, President Andrzej Duda announced to the participants of the climate summit in Katowice that coal-based energy does not conflict with climate protection and progress in climate protection. Minister! These words conflict with science. It's like saying the Earth is flat and the sun is circling the Earth. The problem of the Polish environment is precisely that in Polish energy is dominated by coal. According to Eurostat data, Poland emits 9,8% all CO2 produced by the countries of the European Union. I wanted to ask if the Minister felt that this was not an affront to the guests who came to Katowice and who wanted to fight the negative effects of climate warming. President Duda also boasted that Poland reduced CO2 by 30%. I wanted to ask the Minister what time Mr Duda was talking about. Didn't he say 2012 because it hasn't gone in the right direction since then and it's exactly the opposite, Minister. And thirdly, Minister, as the announcement and idolatry of President Andrzej Duda is about the project of energy policy of Poland announced recently, in which the government puts a cross on wind energy and uses political arguments in this matter, but there are no economic arguments. Minister, will such economic arguments arise? And finally, Minister, the fight against windmills is taking on a new meaning. I wish you wouldn't be successful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u24	I invite Minister Kowalczyk to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 24th climate session in Katowice has been prepared very carefully. All participants of this conference are delighted by the organization, reception, Polish hospitality. The substantive issues are, of course, being discussed and all those who have arrived, including the Polish delegation, are seeking the COP24 conference in Katowice to develop and implement the Paris Agreement in an operational manner. I mean, the point is that these declarations that were made in Paris, about emission reductions, are converted into concrete decisions, ways of measurable emission reductions. As far as climate policy is concerned, we must of course always remember, and that is also the goal of the Polish government - I hope that this will also be recorded in the final conclusions of the climate conference - on two sides of CO2. On the one hand, there is a reduction in emissions that is actually taking place. To answer this question more specifically, the President said that Poland reduced its CO2 emissions by almost 30%. I suspect he meant 1989 and 2013. As far as the next years are concerned, this issue is likely to increase by a very small percentage in 2017, even a fraction of the percentage, but in order to confirm this ultimately, it is necessary to wait for the final report of the KOBIZE, which will be drawn up in the first quarter of 2019. That's the reporting system. And then we can determine whether the emissions have actually increased. However, even if between 2013 and 2017, this is an increase by percentages, it still does not change the fact that the reduction in CO2 emissions in Poland has been almost 30% since 1989. - and here we are one of the leaders in Europe. With regard to the contradiction between coal-based energy and climate, we are obviously aware that the share of coal in this energy mix should decrease. But you have to always remember one thing: talking about coal all the time, we confuse certain concepts, because all fossil fuels emit CO2 if we burn them. Coal, natural gas and oil should be treated equally. The scaring of coal from the position of Poland is absolutely irresponsible, because identical CO2 emissions are caused by the burning of oil and gas, as well as the burning of coal. So I am surprised that the Commissioner will particularly stigmatize coal, because coal is the wealth of Poland and not the wealth of Poland's oil. So I didn't hear that. Saudi Arabia has particularly stigmatized oil as a source of carbon dioxide emissions. We, as I stress once again, reduce the share of coal in the energy mix - it decreases, systematically decreases and will decrease. And those obligations that talk about it, those are the assumptions... The question is a little early because there are no effects of the climate summit, so I can only talk about intentions, assumptions and intentions. These goals are to have zero emissions in 2050, i.e. to balance emissions and removals, because we are not talking about zero carbon emissions, because that is impossible. In the case of absorption, we want to emphasise very strongly - and this will probably also be included in the relevant documents - the role of forests, biodiversity, agriculture, because it is necessary to achieve a zero CO2 balance. Of course, it is about reducing emissions, not bringing it to zero, because even breathing we emit carbon dioxide - you have to remember that. So it's not about achieving zero emissions, it's about really reducing and increasing absorption - then we can talk about full success. And this is the success Poland wants, to this success Poland wants to join. As far as energy policy is concerned, if you allow it, please make such a question to the Minister of Energy. I would not like to be responsible for energy policy in someone else's name. This is not my competence, so I will not comment on these statements here, although I have an opinion on this subject as well. However, while I still have time, I would just like to clarify that the real chances of implementing the Paris agreements are significant. First of all, I would like to stress the extremely important declaration which came at the start of the climate summit in Katowice, the declaration made by the Managing Director of the World Bank by Mrs Georgieva, who said that the World Bank's climate policy is actually doubling its funding, spending $200 billion for 5 years, giving an amount of 40 billion a year. That's doubling that amount, so in assumptions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The aim is to raise €100 billion of funding annually for climate policy, which is becoming increasingly realistic. I believe that this is one of the most difficult elements of the climate negotiations, and here this element has gone far ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the question is, did you bring our president to the brink at the climate summit? He says that Poland will not move away from coal, and then we have the Prime Minister saying in a moment that we will leave the coal. Next, you did not want to answer Pomaska's question in response to energy policy, but I heard you on one of the media, on TV, evaluating the President's statement. There you said that we would move away from coal - gradually, yes, but we would go away. So, first of all, as with your credibility, secondly, the current Minister of National Defence Błaszczak stated a few years ago that it was necessary to impose sanctions on Russia for the amount of imported coal. I suggest you do it, because right now we're importing 80%. More than a year ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u28	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Of course, I'm going to repeat what I just said, that it's going to decrease the amount of carbon in the energy mix. And that's a fact, and that's going to go on, so any further expansion of energy potential is going to be about clean sources, so let's call it. It is important to remember that not all renewable sources are clean, often misconceptions are mistaken when they are said, for example. with renewable sources. Biogas is not a clean source because it emits carbon dioxide. So once again, the amount of carbon in the energy mix is going to be low. However, it is true that Polish energy is based on coal. And that's a fact, and we're not going to change that fact over the next year or two. The gradual shift of the centre of gravity towards clean energy will take place over the years. That's what the energy strategy is talking about. However, the fact is that for the coming years coal will continue to be the basis for energy. If we'd left day to day or year to year from coal power, we wouldn't have electricity. It would be here, in this room, dark. I think that's a pretty obvious statement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u30	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We move on to the next question to be asked by Mr Piotr Appeal and Mr Robert Mordak, the Kukiz Club15. This is a question about the method of employment in companies of the State Treasury, in state institutions, in foundations dependent on state institutions and in offices of people in family relations with parliamentarians and high government officials. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u31	Thank you very much. I'm gonna start by looking back a little bit. At the end of the rule of the Civic Platform, Law and Justice announced a great audit. Later, this great audit was intended to cover, among others, the following: employment, a certain co-workership, a satchel. The results of these audits were not particularly public, they may be available somewhere. If the Minister has them, I'd be happy to get acquainted with them. Over time, however, more and more media information was emerging about hiring cousins, friends, loved ones in companies, offices not necessarily according to their competence, not necessarily using competitions or other methods commonly known in democracies. Here's my questions. Firstly, has this audit resulted in any knowledge of negligence in the employment of persons by family, secondly, whether any procedures have been carried out in connection with this audit, thirdly, is there any cell in the office or anyone who wishes to react to such media information, and is there any measure of a disciplinary nature towards those who do so? And last question: Is the Kukiz15 proposal to end the grid in any way analysed and verified by the Chancellery of the Prime Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u32	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u33	Mr. Speaker! Gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the question that was received by the President of the Council of Ministers - there were no elements concerning the audit. I will allow myself to make a written reply on this subject, because these are new elements for us, and I will refer to the content of the question that has been received. It is formulated in a tricky way, because it already assumes in advance that there is a certain way of dealing with those in family relationships. My answer will describe the procedure for employing persons in State Treasury companies and central offices and will explain why any possible family relationships do not affect this in a positive or negative way. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Companies with the participation of the State Treasury carry out business activities and their primary task is to increase the value achieved by maximising profits and increasing the protection of key economic interests of the State. These activities must be included in the company's strategy. All matters relating to the conduct of the company's affairs, which are not governed by the laws or regulations of the Articles of Association for the general meeting or supervisory board, fall within the competence of the Management Board. In particular, it should be pointed out here that the company's core business, as well as personnel matters, such as the employment policy, which must comply with the law, the strategy of the company and be regulated in accordance with the applicable internal rules of the entity, the company concerned. Family relations of persons employed may not be the subject of a qualifying procedure. The parties mentioned above. proceedings shall be recruited by persons and an employer, who shall not be the President of the Council of Ministers. At the same time, it should be pointed out that when persons are appointed to the authorities of the Treasury companies, the specific requirements to be met by candidates for these posts are laid down in Article. 22 Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. In addition, in accordance with the statutes of the companies, members of the Management Board shall, as a general rule, be appointed and dismissed by the Supervisory Board and the appointment shall take place after the selection procedure has been carried out, one of the elements of which is to verify that the candidate complies with the requirements laid down in the Act in question, including whether or not the conditions set out in Article are met. 22 of this law, i.e. whether the candidate is not a social collaborator or is not employed in a parliamentary, senator's, senator's or a Member's office in the European Parliament, whether or not he is part of a political party body and whether he is employed by political parties on the basis of a contract of employment. These elements shall be verified when the management bodies are set up. The President of the Council of Ministers exercising the rights of shares belonging to the Treasury in companies does not participate in this process. As regards the appointment of employees and the management of central offices, I would also remind you that there are appropriate pragmatics at each central office. It is also a general pragmatism defined by the Civil Service Act and there are competition procedures specifying criteria. Finally, I just wanted to quote some personal data records. Art. 9 GDPR law considers data on political views to be particularly sensitive. For this reason, it is not possible to process information about belonging to political parties when hiring persons in companies of the Treasury or public institutions. On the other hand, the article. The 47th Constitution talks about the right to protect private and family life. In view of the above, the employment of persons in the above mentioned period. the institutions decide only the competence and the preparation of the content to take up the posts for which recruitment is carried out. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u34	Stay on the stand, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Robert Mordak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It seems that these explanations do not cover the answers to the questions that my predecessor asked. I think that both the Minister and the public are sometimes appalled by media information that another member of the family of some minister or important policy is employed, which has an impact on this employment. As an example, I will give Radom, where the Polish Armed Forces Group is located, where a lot of political officers work, so that I will put it this way. They occupy high positions in this company. They do not have to belong to a political party to receive such positions. They are presidents of the City Council for Law and Justice, councillors and in my opinion only this [[♪ The bell ♪]] They got the job.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u36	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u37	Mr President, that is what I am unable to address at this moment the situation in the Radom PGZ. I do not know the state of this company, but I stress - and I wanted to repeat this, because I have already said this - that according to my best knowledge which I have acquired, competence is determined in this matter, not family ties or possible political sympathies. Let me remind you that I was quoting the records on the grounds of exclusion from employment. Here we have a statement that a person cannot be part of a political party body and cannot be employed by a political party. Membership in a political party is another matter. Please accept these explanations. [[And what are the consequences if it turns out that a person has no competence?]] The consequences aren't official. If the candidate doesn't have the authority, he will, of course, be released. However, this is an evaluation, I stress, not the President of the Council of Ministers, but the authorities of individual companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club will ask them about the jump (60-70%) ) the increase in electricity prices in 2019 for local government units and economic operators and the impact of these increases on the cost of living of citizens. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski. I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u39	Dear Marshal! Mirosław Pampuch, a little correction. High Izbo! Minister! Local governments have a very close look at each piece of gold spent, especially as regards current expenditure, but not only. Therefore, when purchasing electricity, local authorities set up purchasing groups. These purchasing groups optimize electricity costs. And what happened just now, a few weeks ago? In Olsztyn's purchasing group - and Olsztyn's purchasing group, Minister, brings together not only the city of Olsztyn, but also the city of Elbląg, the University of Warmia and Mazury and all the entities subordinate to these institutions, i.e. a total of 336 different units of local government and public administration, which have almost 3837 power consumption points and for which all entities are purchased energy - the price for 2019 has increased from PLN 211.70 per MWh to PLN 337 per MWh of energy. That means an increase of almost 63%. The same thing happened in Warsaw - 67% - in Poznań, Gdansk. Is the government planning any compensation for local government units due to this surge in energy prices? Do you have, and above all, where, do you have a minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] data on the origin of such an increase in prices? How will this translate into the lives of residents in various Polish municipalities? How will this also translate into the availability of public services?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u40	I would like to ask Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski to answer Mr Mirosław Pampuch's question, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At the beginning of November, I presented in the Sejm the current diagnosis of the observed situation on the electricity market and the action taken by the Ministry of Energy. I have explained in detail, and I have also responded on these issues to numerous interpellations and questions from Members addressed to me. I would like to reiterate the main facts now, because the issue concerns the same issue, namely electricity prices, and to supplement this information, because during this time intensive work was being done in the energy department on the compensation scheme. In analyses and considerations - I go to this part of the question about the reasons - first of all, it is necessary to distinguish the price of electricity in wholesale, i.e. on the stock exchange, from the charges for electricity borne by consumers. The lack of distinction between these two sizes often leads in public space to erroneous conclusions that bills will rise by 60 or 70% And that's not true. The price of electricity is only one of the components of the electricity bill. Its percentage change does not translate in a ratio of one to one into a change in the electricity bill paid by consumers. This is due, among other things. the fact that there are other elements in the bill paid - distribution costs, excise duties, VAT. VAT in household accounts is at the expense of the household, in enterprises it is accounted for completely differently. [[Eventually, we pay more.]] In household accounts, the price for energy amounts to around 50% all costs. Let me give you a numerical example: if the price of energy increases, for example. 5%, it's the recipient's bill rising by 2.5%. As regards wholesale prices, I must say that actually in the second and third quarters of this year. There has been an increase in electricity prices across Europe on stock exchanges. These situations did not only concern Poland, but the European Union as a whole. For example, in Poland there was one of the smaller increases in prices on the stock exchange across Europe, if we compare prices on the stock exchange from September ub. with prices from September of this year. I'm going to give examples here because this is an extremely important thing. During the year until September - because this data is available - coal energy prices, coal cost in Poland, I am talking about Poland, developed at PLN 237 per tonne and the price of coal increased by 14%. At the same time, the gas price calculated in PLN per MWh on the spot market increased by 45%. The prices of emission rights increased by around 250 and 300%, green certificates - by around 150% at the time. Electricity on the spot market at the moment - PLN 234, an increase by almost 50%. Electricity sold for 2019 - an increase of about 50%. Oil - an increase by approx. 47%. This is how the price increase of energy factors developed and if we look at coal in 2018, in 2019, Poland's coal prices are the lowest in Europe, one of the lower in the world because they are signed in connection with the restructuring of coal mining in 2016 long-term contracts with energy, which has invested, by raising capital, has helped in restructuring coal mining in Poland. In this way the Polish Górnicza Group was established, whose main owners at the moment are energy companies. Those power companies, they're... We are in such a situation that the rise in coal and coal prices is currently the lowest in Europe. I would also like at this point, when I talk about prices, to raise one significant thing. Well, the number of monthly bills for the electricity of an average family that can be paid for one salary is very important for citizens. Such statistics are also carried out in Europe. And it was in 2012 that 12 bills could be paid for the minimum wage, 26 bills for the average salary. In 2015, for a minimum wage - 12 bills, for an average salary - 26 bills. In 2016, for a minimum wage - 13 bills, for an average - 28 bills. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2017, for a minimum salary - 14 bills, for an average - 29. And in 2018, we kept, by the end of the third quarter, 14 accounts for minimum and 30 for average. And I would also like to add that, as far as these calculations are concerned, there are no extraordinary measures that have been taken into account by the law to the families - these funds from 500+, so today we keep this indicator. Nevertheless, we are taking action to reduce these effects for families and small and medium-sized enterprises, hence this work on compensation. Today, it is not yet finalized how much we will pay for energy, because the URE will only respond on the 15th to the company's proposals for household electricity rates, but also to all those who are connected to the low-voltage network, and very many particularly small and medium-sized companies are connected to low-voltage networks where the G tariff will apply. So in such a situation, the details, if any, will be immediately after the decision of the President of the URE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u42	Minister, please stay here. There may be an additional question. Does Mr Mirosław Pampuch want to ask a question? [[Yes, yes, of course.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u43	Let me sum up your statement, Minister. What you're saying is that Poles are supposed to pay more for electricity, because that's how they come out of average bills and from your evaluation. However, please pay attention, you have not answered completely, you have completely omitted the subject of the acquisition of electricity by local government units. These units provide security for both public transport, hospitals and street lighting, so this has a direct impact on citizens' safety. I asked the President of the Council of Ministers a question, because the President is under the authority of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and the office completely ignored the fact that the agreements were concluded by local government units this year and that these entities were forced to buy electricity at the prices of the so-called. Reserves, i.e. 3 and 5 times higher than prices that are generally in force. The Olsztyn purchasing group purchased this energy [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's almost 1,200 zł, Minister. Question: "What did the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection do, and why is URE only now publishing tariffs for 2019 when it is known that tenders for this year are being settled much earlier?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u44	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u45	What I said earlier, that is, this possibility concerns citizens and some of these small and medium-sized enterprises, with regard to tariffing, because this is the energy sold in tariff terms. As for the local government units... [[Answer the question, please.]] ...and larger companies, it is here that the President of the URE does not determine the price and it is the price accepted at the interface of the seller and local authorities. So I would just like to say that we really note that these prices are high and not only for local governments, but also for some large companies. And for this reason, I am currently preparing a speech, using the majority shareholder's right, to the Chairs of the Supervisory Boards, asking them to audit costs towards the introduction of extraordinary austerity procedures in companies in order to keep these prices to a minimum as far as possible. And here I want to say from the point of view of the majority shareholder's rights, also in this way I can, because we are dealing with companies, corporations, which are listed companies, which have a very mixed shareholder. And it's not our fault that they've been marketd and listed on the stock exchange, which is why the Treasury doesn't have a vote here. The point is, it's the only way we can use it, and I hope... [[But they're monopolists, Minister, they're monopolists.]] ...that these prices will change in a year. It is also a matter of proper offices and supervision. As Minister of Energy, I cannot order here, but I ask the chairman of the supervisory boards to carefully examine the level of costs... [[That's why I asked you a question.]] ...and why there are prices, not different ones. On the other hand, from a social point of view, where I do not have to apply for notification of aid processes, i.e. with regard to citizens and those businesses that can benefit from authorised aid, we can and will try to implement this aid there, and in other cases we will benefit from the powers that we have the right to have. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u46	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, which will be asked by Members of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, namely Mr Kazimierz Kotowski - the first question and the second question - Mr Jan Łopata. These questions will be about adverse changes in regulations for Polish transport companies and are addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. The Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk will answer. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u47	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, The lack of cooperation between the Polish authorities in the international arena is reflected in the next aspect of negotiations on Polish interests in the European Union. The countries of the European Union have adopted a position on new regulations for international road transport. Despite the fact that Poland was against it, negative solutions for Polish road transport were not blocked. New regulatory restrictions mean an increase in bureaucracy and costs in the Polish transport industry, thus reducing our competitive advantage in the European transport market. Instead of sustainable measures, the new rules impose restrictive, disproportionate, protectionist measures. The particularly unfavourable provisions concern cabotage operations, namely the carriage of cargo between two countries by a non-resident carrier. In these cases there will be rules on employees, which will have particularly adverse effects on Polish companies. As regards cabotage, countries have maintained the current rule allowing up to three operations within 7 days. However, they agreed that in order to prevent systematic cabotage, a freezing period of 5 days would be introduced before further cabotage operations could be carried out in the same country and in the same vehicle. In addition, transport services subject to and not subject to the posting rules have been divided, which will further create difficulties for transport companies. In practice this would mean that after a few days [[♪ The bell ♪]] from crossing the border, the driver would be subject to the law of that country. Minister, if the rules enter into force, what will be the consequences for Polish carriers who have developed an excellent position in the countries of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u48	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The question is about the very important sphere of our economy, which is international transport. Let me remind you, there's over 36,000. international transport companies in Poland, this is a huge amount, it is the first place in Europe when it comes to international transport. The question is two threads. One is the thesis question, one is the statement that it is another Poland's failure to negotiate in the European Union. With regard to the second part of the question, of course, here we agree that the consequences for the Polish economy will be mourned. Well, first of all, I wanted to refer in this part of my statement to the charge that this is another failure. Gentlemen! Let me remind you: 2015 MiLoG, the MiLoG regulations introduced by Germany. Minister of Labour is Minister Kosiniak-Kamish. Remember the country that Poland then took action and what we had to fight in Parliament in order to mobilize the government to take an interest in the MiLoG case. [[I'll answer you right away.]] Yes, yes, of course. On the other hand, as regards international activity, I am unable to count the meetings with the European Union's transport ministers over the last two years, I am unable to count the visits to the European capitals, whose purpose was to talk to the transport ministers in order to ensure that the rules are beneficial to our transport industry. So I will not empathize with numbers now, but I can assure you that I have spoken with many transport ministers many times. For example, I remember, with the German Minister of Transport alone, Minister Scheuer, we met twice in November, in long discussions on the mobility package, the Posting Directive for Transport. She came to us last year and this year, the French Minister for Transport, we spoke with the Minister, we tried to convince her that the road alliance proposals are detrimental to countries based on the external border of the European Union. Finally, on every possible occasion, whether formal or informal meetings of the European Union Transport Council have been used in particular over the last year for discussions and debates on the mobility package. We have met several times in the format of transport ministers of the Visegrad Group. On October 2nd, when we met in Slovakia, Visegrad Group countries had a uniform position, negative, against the proposed rules. Let me remind you that on the day on which the mobility package was announced, the mobility package in the European Parliament, we were present with a delegation from the Ministry of Infrastructure. We organized a conference at which we presented a report on the possible effects of the mobility package ordered earlier by professors involved in logistics and transport in Poland, Germany and France. We have met with parliamentarians, we have met many times with parliamentarians of the European Parliament responsible for the debate on this subject in the Committee on Transport and Tourism of the European Union. I would like to remind the Members and the High House that, as a result of these activities, the Transport Committee has rejected this proposal in its vote in Parliament. Of course, this was later changed because all the forces and means were mobilized and there was a kind of resummation of the vote in the following days. In any event, the European Union Transport Commission has strongly rejected this project as harmful, dangerous for the functioning of the free market in the European Union. A general approach was adopted in the Council on Monday. I did not lose Poland, but lost international transport of the European Union. Poland has not lost. Not only Poland - the transport companies of the European Union lost. And it was not only Poland that opposed it. We didn't have one, a blocking minority. Nine European Union countries, i.e. 1/3, voted against the package - 1/3, including the old European Union: Belgium, Ireland. They were here with us, too... Our position was the same as that of Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Bulgaria. The Romanians abstained. Like I said, 1/3 was against it, but it's not like it's just an end to war, it was one of the battles. We have a vote... [[♪ The bell ♪]] If your marshal will allow me... The issue is extremely important for Polish transport.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u50	Minister, we still have the second part of the question, so now for a minute...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u51	Yes, yes, but if your marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u52	I'm just gonna finish. Minister, now I'm extending your time by one minute, and then we'll finish in the second part. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u53	Okay, thank you very much. Well, January is scheduled to vote in the European Commission on transport, and here we will continue to be active, because we want to eliminate the rules harmful to car transport companies, including Polish ones. But once again, it is European, because this is the German side that does not take into account, for example. opposition of transport companies in Germany. The environment is against this decision. I agree with the thesis in the question. Yes, these are harmful protectionist laws that eliminate, among others. Polish companies, push them out of the free European market, create unequal competition. It is even unwise and harmful legislation, otherwise you cannot call the arrest of a car which serves as a cabotage service in one country, because the so-called. punishment. I call it a car arrest. After carrying out the cabotage service in a few days the car must stand in the parking lot and cannot do any work - not the driver, just the car - for 5 days. It was originally proposed for 14 days. We managed to remove even more harmful offensive of our opposition, linked to the return of the car to the country of registration of the company, because this type of solution was also prepared. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u54	Minister, it's been two minutes, so we're gonna let him ask a question and we're gonna finish the answer in the second part. Stay on the stand so we don't waste any time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u55	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! There is no way, after hearing this answer, to ask the question: Then why is it as it is, or is it not good? And then what? I think that's a further question and more sensible. For the transport industry, for all people thinking what we're talking about, protectionism, interference in the transport market... That, of course, is a violation of competition rules, and in a good case I can go further and say - it will probably also be part of your idea - that it is a violation, rejection of the European Union's idea of free movement of capital, people and goods. It's clear, but you can say I understand it anyway, although you can explain it that... The milk spilled because I think that the majority think that these votes in the Commission are unfortunately lost. And the Association of Employers Transport and Logistics alarms that even a dozen thousand transport companies may fall, so the problem [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's absolutely big. I have the impression, but not just me, because I'm getting this information from the media, that the same statement that you're empathizing here today, that you don't agree that you can't support it, that's not enough. Because whether Poland lost or European companies lost... Poland lost, we lost, Polish companies lost. And if you want proof that this is another bad negotiation, I will remind you of Minister Jurgiel's negotiations on the sugar market. Is there anything more to add? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u56	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I will respectfully say: the sugar market is an important market, the international transport market is also and often is not comparable. And now I am. Question: "What's next? We keep working, yes, we keep working, we don't lay down weapons, we prepare more materials. Yes, there is an agreement with the transport ministers of Lithuania, Hungary, Bulgaria - Romanians unfortunately enter the Presidency period, so they will have to be neutral here - certainly Belgium, certainly Ireland, who are with us in the opposition group. [[That's not enough.]] Sir, this is not too little, because there is a vote in the Commission in January, then there will be a debate in the European Parliament and a vote in the European Parliament, that is another approach, and then there are trilogues, that is, an investigation into the final shape of these rules. One thing is certain: from this proposal, from what is on the table, which has been adopted by transport ministers, it is certainly necessary to eliminate the most harmful rules. We work and cooperate constantly with the international transport industry in Poland. The industry informs that it is preparing materials that will possibly serve to enforce their rights before the European Court of Justice. And here, Members, ladies and gentlemen, a very important point. It is not possible to apply to the Court of Justice or it would appear wrong to apply for recognition of non-compliance with the EU Treaty, with the provisions of the EU which we are talking about today, if the general approach is in favour and is not against. We have agreed and we have negotiated margins. Believe me, negotiating margins are also established thanks to, among others. long debates with the transport industry. We often meet with the transport industry, we exchange comments. Another position of the transport industry was 1.5 years ago, not only in Poland, but also in Hungary, also in Spain. I think that if the government had not changed to socialist in Spain, Spain would have been with us because the previous Minister of Transport declared on behalf of the government support for our idea and presence in the like-minded group. It's the group that was against these solutions. And just so we're clear, to block this project, we had to get a blocking minority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the number of countries and the sum of the population. We lacked this, we could count it directly, a country like Portugal, like Slovakia, like the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u59	I'm sure we'll be working on it. Thank you for this question and I know that it is asked with concern for Polish international transport. We will certainly be working on reducing, minimising the impact on the car transport industry when it comes to these provisions that are being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform, and this is a question of the date of implementation of the regulation governing the refund rule for preventive mastectomy in women of a very high risk and high risk of breast cancer as a guaranteed benefit. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Zbigniew Józef Król. Ms Ewa Kołodziej begins. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u61	Katarzyna Stachowicz is our friend and hero. She is also called Polish Angelina Jolie. And there is no exaggeration here, because it is thanks to it that the public found out that about 100,000 people live in Poland. Polishes at risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer. But most importantly, Katarzyna Stachowicz showed the Poles that they have an alternative, have a chance at long, happy and above all healthy lives. Such an opportunity is a treatment that reduces the risk of breast cancer, i.e. preventive mastectomy with simultaneous reconstruction of breasts for people with family loads, i.e. with mutation of BRCA1 and BRCA2. In all this, it is important that this topic united women and different environments, allowed over political divisions to fight for the rights of women, the right of Poles to free access to this procedure. I'll remind you that in my family Katowice was signed with a very important appeal from parliamentarians of all political options, which was physically handed over as a document to Minister Szumowski on 6 June this year. And this is a very important date, because on 6 June Minister Szumowski promised Poland that by the end of the year these treatments would be refunded. The end of the year is coming, so we kindly ask on behalf of 100,000. Polek, since specifically these benefits will be refunded from the National Health Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u62	Thank you very much. The Member doesn't want to? Oh, Mr. Member, yes. Please, Mr Marek Hok. I did not mention the Member at first, but after looking at the content of the question, I thought that women themselves would ask them. I'm so sorry. So Mr Mark Hok will use the remaining time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u63	Thank you, Marshal, because not only do women care about women's health, but men mostly, especially doctors. Minister! Mrs. Marshal! Breast cancer is unfortunately the most common cancer in the world among women, in Poland too, it is about 18 thousand. new cases of breast cancer every year and, unfortunately, around 6,000. death from this every year. That is why I am asking the Minister if we will come to a point where research into the mutation of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes will be compulsory tests to which the family doctor is directing, especially in the case of women with family history. We know perfectly well that the mutation of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes is unfortunately responsible for up to 60%. new diseases, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So maybe we should go to preventive research, to detect this mutation, which will save thousands of women in Poland, millions of women in the world. I think it's high time that this study, which is an uncomplicated study, could be introduced into the prevention of cancer prevention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u64	The question asked by Mr Mark Hok, but also the question asked by the Member, will be answered by Minister Zbigniew Józef Król. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for these questions, because they give you the opportunity to discuss a rather complicated, however it seems, area related to prevention in general. Maybe I'll start by asking the second question about the possibility of testing, because these tests are of course possible to be introduced, but only if a reliable result is obtained in the form of the results of these tests. As far as screening tests are concerned, so far we are observing what their credibility is, because we are also doing too much harm to tests where the results are either falsely positive or falsely negative at a high percentage. This is a particularly difficult area in genetics, this is not a new discipline - we remember the research conducted by Mendel - because genetics is not an element that just enters medicine, but it is only just entering medicine both diagnostics and intervention. And that's the answer to that question, because we're not so sure about these results yet, so that you can give the doctors on the front line and that credibility is close to 100%. , not the results so far. On the other hand, on the issue of prevention, I thank you for this question, because it also gives you the opportunity to discuss or dement such a general message that it is always better to protect, prevent, than cure. Well, that's when it's better when we have, first of all, a reliable test. And here this credible test is the population of women at risk of these two cancers, and these are not all women who died of breast cancer. This indicator is closer to the maturity mentioned by the Member, about 100,000. This is estimated to be the population in terms of carrying two BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. In the case of this population, we know because we need to be sure that preventive breast removal - in the medical terminology: mammary gland - but also the ovaries - reduces the risk of cancer at a later age. And this is the area we're talking about, which is we're sure, and we have a certain intervention, in this case surgical. And here's the evidence, which is unscientific, which isn't from Mrs. Angelina Jolie's day, which was recently confirmed. This recent situation has caused this to be a matter of the medical technology assessment agency, because in Polish law, the procedure for granting guaranteed benefits is only possible if there is a positive outcome in terms of recommending it by the agency. Then we are just starting the legislative process. Minister Szumowski said about this date in June that this year we will finish this process and this year we will finish it. Since a little earlier was the recommendation for preventive ovarian removal, i.e. preventive adenosectomy, and this part of the basket regulation is currently in the RCL, we have caused a huge effort of many people to collect information on the draft regulation by 27 November this year. We're finishing the revision analysis this week. There aren't many. There will be no need for further consultations, including public consultations. So that this regulation we want to send to the RCL this week, a regulation on preventive mastectomy, with the date of entry into force on the date of signing, which is still going to be this year. The NFZ is prepared to quickly prepare the President's order, because we also see - in the course of this regulation - the health effects above all, but also the consequences that this therapy, the cumbersome... [[Social.]] ...in the event of breast cancer or ovarian cancer or metastases, it is definitely also easier for the system, not only for women. But the whole of this procedure is that it is really only for women who have a defined host of this gene. However, it must also be a decision that is fully aware of the person, with a certain security or psychological background, so as not to create such an impression that it is possible to come, make an appointment for the procedure and this procedure will be carried out, because we also see too much harm in such interventions. So that this system is as if it were fully described in this Regulation and here we want to complete this commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u66	Thank you. Please remain here, Minister, because the question here will be asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u67	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, referring to what you just said, I would add that it was already 30 July that the agency's recommendations were positive and that my question would involve this. When, Minister? What are the conclusions of the consultation you conducted? In reply to Mrs Kołodziej's argument on this issue, you said that by 27 November this consultation was ongoing, you are now collecting conclusions, and I am about to ask you about these proposals. The most important conclusion I want to ask is that, since the Polish people affected by this misfortune will be able to count on a free mastectomy, refunded from the fund. You also said, in answer to a friend's question, that the fund would be prepared. But will there be money for it? Since when and will there be money for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u68	The regulation will enter into force the day after the signing, so we expect it to be before Christmas. Usually, the agency president's order is about 2, 3 weeks. It's about preparing this arrangement. We estimated the financial consequences. These procedures are performed. After all, mastectomy, ovary, etc. are performed. These treatments are refunded. This is where we introduce prevention into this. So that here simply something that must be an additional element also resulting from these comments, which I am talking about, is a consultation with a psychologist, who must also be reimbursed. So here this care package or intervention package is expanded. It's not just about doing the procedure itself, which is probably the hardest of all, the most complicated, or most importantly, so to speak, expected, but also taking care of this person at the stage of the application, making a fully informed decision, preparing for this decision - it's not just a signature - and then securing after the procedures. And that's what the comments were mostly about. I have said that there are not many of them, therefore the draft regulation, which was being prepared, practically in that form, so to speak, will come into force in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u69	Thank you, Minister. Your fellow Members, too. Let's move on to the next question. Another question, on the treatment of chronic pain, is also addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Zbigniew Józef Król will answer. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Life without pain is the right of every patient, while the application of appropriate treatment is a challenge and a duty of doctors, but also organizers of the health system, health care. Chronic and incurable pain can cause adverse reactions as well as effects on the patient. It can cause such behavior as anxiety, anxiety, depression, aggression, and even suicidal thoughts. We observe at the same time, looking at patients, but also at the development of medicine, medical techniques, and this applies to the area of pain relief and treatment, an increasing possibility of helping people, patients in cases where this has so far been impossible. At the same time, the problem is very high costs, exceeding the possibilities of flat-rate hospitals. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the first question: Does the Ministry analyse the situation of patients experiencing severe chronic pain, of various aetiologys, and what solutions is it considering to help patients who are suffering so much?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u71	You're welcome, Minister. The answer to your question will be Minister Zbigniew Józef Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for this question, Madam President, because there is much to be done on this issue in relation to the treatment of pain. Many things have already been done in the preparation formula. Of course, pain is one of these basic symptoms of the disease. You could say that over the years, especially the last one, it was a bit forgotten topic in terms of therapeutic possibilities. However, on the occasion of such an element as raising the threshold of pain through therapy, we must also be careful not to break a certain type of addiction system. We would not like to have the situation as in the United States - the famous media law enforcement intervention in the case of the administration of drugs which on the one hand cause addiction and on the other hand must be administered as high a dose. This applies particularly to medicines, morphine derivatives. This is the area we're discussing. Therefore, we have done much more in the case of palliative care, in terms of reimbursement opportunities for the administration of medicines to people unfortunately already in a terminal state. This population, it seems, should be secured, in terms of funding, for various kinds of interventions. On the other hand, we must definitely strengthen something that we have been working on over the last year and a half - in the context of meetings in committees We are also discussing on this subject - that is to say, the preparation of some kind of treatment regimen, depending on the disease unit, available as wide a group of medical professionals as possible in the field of just prescription, organizing, and this in addition to the pain treatment clinic, which, in fact, seems, should be more on the scale of the country. This should be reimbursed, especially in this consultative part, and this is what we want to focus on, on the qualification of specific medicines for specific people with specific diseases, for which these dangerous drugs, which are already identified as drugs, are also being used. The point is to monitor this therapy as well. In this area, some of these preparations can be prescribed by nurses. Therefore, this part is extended, while access to such interventional therapies, where there is indeed an anesthesiologist, and a doctor who specializes in pain therapies, in certain places, still needs to work. As far as medicines are concerned, our pharmacopoeia does not differ from the pharmacopoeia of any European country. I think there's a lot more to do, especially in terms of convincing doctors, but generally medical professionals, about the fact that painkillers of this non-drug generation should be used much more often and pain should be suppressed. I think that our awareness-raising interventions, especially in hospitals, have such an effect that it is increasingly rare that the patient after the procedure is not long-term protected by a specific remedy or specific painkillers. After meetings with professionals in the field, whether it's anesthesiology or orthopedics, because it's most often this discipline, I'm convinced that this therapeutic method has reached hospitals. Now we need to work on making it available also in outpatient care and primary care and, above all, financially available to patients.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u73	I ask the Member for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u74	Thank you very much. Minister! I agree, as far as pharmacotherapy is concerned, only with this question I wanted to look even more at it, because these other methods of treating chronic pain are used as a pharmacovigilance supplement. The effectiveness of therapy depends to a large extent on the well-qualified patients. They must be the right doctors to recognize it. The indications for the use of these techniques relate to at least 5% to 10% patients with chronic pain, these patients are eligible for this. That's what we're talking about. It's pain. chronic in which patients are unable to function. We are not talking about palliative cases, we are talking about another type of pain at which patients are unable to function, and only these new, modern techniques, with appropriate medical qualifications, are able to guarantee this. Here I'd like to ask if it's possible to treat the pain to lead without a limit, to be able to say so... Is the Ministry considering [[♪ The bell ♪]] treatment of pain without limit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u75	It is like treating different disease units without a limit until the price of the medicine exceeds the limit group for example or there is no possibility of negotiating in a given unit outside the limit group such a price that would be acceptable - it may be a bad word - such that it will not affect the budget of the refund on other therapeutic molecules, on other medicines. Then we have a limitation in the form of a specific group of patients. Chronic pain is certainly an area where we must do much more, also in the negotiating part concerning the financial conditions for these medicines. And here, this process that we are talking about, and we are also talking about prevention, is also similar when it comes to assessing this drug technology in turn. There must be a positive recommendation. In this case we have it, but the recommendation gives the minister, and in principle the economic committee, the opportunity to negotiate the price. At the moment, we had prices so negotiated. However, it is also the case that the manufacturer or distributor of this drug on Poland for years of operation most often lowers this therapeutic value. Besides, these drugs have specific patent protection, and they come in with generic drugs that are much cheaper. Then this limit group is as if it's more acceptable. We need to learn more, so to speak, about these specific medicines, the specific individuals that you are talking about, and simply provide detailed information when this is possible. On the other hand, certainly in the whole area of pain treatment, especially chronic pain, we need to prepare far more things.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister and Member. [[Thank you very much.]] Let's move on to the next question. This question will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform: Mr Jarosław Urbaniak as the first and Mrs Marta Golbik as an additional question. This is a question on the clarification of the KNF case addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. He will answer, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers Maciej Wąsik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today I wanted to ask Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki a question about the KNF scandal, the bank's money scandal. This is the second time the Prime Minister hasn't shown up, he's just sending in a deputy minister. This is such an issue that I want to ask only Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki knows the answers to questions, because, as we wrote with Marta Golbik, today we wanted to focus on the role of the services subordinate to Prime Minister Morawiecki in this matter - an aféra We would like to know, like many Polish citizens, how it happened that the CBA having 2 km from its headquarters to Mark Ch's office. He didn't get to that office before Mark Ch., who had gotten to that office from Singapore and cleaned this office for three hours. How come CBA gave Mr. Mark Ch a week? To clean up his own house. How did this happen, because this is not a matter related to Mark Ch's plan, but to Zdzisław's plan, which is, as we all guess, Mr Zdzisław Sokal's plan, the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund, that until today the services of the Prime Minister have not made any serious moves towards the President. The Minister, on the other hand, probably realizes that instead of answering these questions this morning at 6:00 a.m., we have a response from the services. Today, the CBA stops Mr Andrzej Jakubiak, former CEO of KNF, and six of his associates. He still calls him Andrzej J. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That, I guess, isn't the way it should look. Is it really gonna happen now that if someone chases the PiS scandals, they're gonna be pulled over by the PiS service right now? Because apparently, among the people who were detained this morning, Mr. Wojciech Kwasniak, former vice-president of KNF. Fired from KNF...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u78	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u79	Your marshal, please in a special way, because this is a man who barely got away with his life. [[Voice from the room: Half a minute.]] ...he barely got away with it because he took care of the SKOKs because he took care of the SKOK Volomins. It's just outrageous that the person who zealously, honestly supervised the SKOK-i... [[How do you know that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u80	Mr President, we move on to the answer. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u81	...is detained this morning. It's just a scandal, a scandal. You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would like to say that the investigation into KNF from the notification submitted by Mr Leszek Czarnecki's proxy was initiated by a decision of the prosecutor's office on 13 November. The investigation was entrusted to the CBA. 14 November 2018 at 3 p.m. 12.35 The Central Anti-corruption Office has received a warrant from the prosecution to search the premises of the KNF and the residence of the former President of the KNF. CBA agents immediately entered into operations on the same day. I think it's been a few dozen minutes since the warrant came in. The premises of the KNF were searched, as well as the place of residence of Mark Ch. During the search, all documents - all of them - were secured by the decision of the prosecutor's office. At the KNF headquarters and Mark Ch's apartment. documentation as well as electronic equipment and electronic media used by the former chairman of the KNF were secured. It was established that Marek Ch. resided on 14 November at the seat of the Office of the Financial Supervision Commission in the assistance of the Office's staff. The investigation secures documents, protocols and recordings of the KNF meetings concerning the case, as well as monitoring records in the Financial Supervision Authority. In several days, CBA interviewed several people, including Grzegorz Kowalczyk's patron, the staff of the Financial Supervision Authority, as well as employees of entities associated with Leszek Czarnecki. Every day, witnesses' hearings and other investigative activities are ongoing. Evidence is collected, all the threads indicated in the notice to the prosecution are examined, and not only. The CBA, together with the ABW, conducted an experiment in the office of the former KNF president on anti-tapping devices. The Bureau of Criminal Studies of the ABW carried out an expert study of recordings and media submitted by Leszek Czarnecki to the prosecutor's office on 19 November: media with recordings, with originals were transmitted only on 19 November. The investigation was to show, among others, that no one tampered with the data stored on the media. The study was submitted to the prosecutor's office on 26 November 2018. Please pay attention to the dates. Immediately after receiving this CBA expert report the following day, 27 November, Mark Ch stopped. The man at the D.A.'s office heard corruption charges. The court arrested the suspect for two months. The CBA also started a pre-control analysis of the statements of property of the former Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. Agents are investigating the truthfulness of the statements made. With regard to a number of unauthorised also appearing in public space, I inform you that the activities of the special forces in the investigation concerning the former KNF President shall be undertaken immediately, without delay. The prosecutions may arise only because of wrong will or lack of basic knowledge in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u83	Thank you very much. Please remain... Ah, the Member is on the stand. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u84	Thank you very much. Minister, without undue delay. You still haven't answered the question of how it is that Mr. Marek Chrzanowski was able to get from Singapore to his office faster than the CBA to secure all documents in the case. We still haven't gotten that answer from you. We still don't know if... For all we know, Mr. Zdzisław Sokal, who was responsible for Zdzisław's plan, was not questioned. It's your responsibility to take care of those threads, too, unless you don't want to. I have one more question about the information that came up today. Is that true, you will probably know that Marek Chrzanowski went to the head of CBA of Mr. Ernest Bejda's building on the street. A beautiful building that was supposed to be rented for 131 million to find out where he can find the owner of this building because he wants to sign him for his lease? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u85	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I wanted to stress once again, and I specifically stated the exact dates, the investigation was initiated on the 13th, the 14th at hours. 12.35 CBA received a search warrant from the host of the proceedings, the prosecutor. A few dozen minutes later, these searches took place. We live in a state of law, Mrs... [[Applause]] [[That's right, bravo.]] ...and we're acting under prosecutors' orders in the investigation. [[Minister, now you've gone, now you've gone.]] You have false information. President Sokal was questioned in the investigation, and this information was also in the media. I recommend getting acquainted with materials, they are generally available in electronic media. As for the CBA head's conversation with Mr Chrzanowski, it took place within the time limit set by you. As far as I know, the content of this conversation was completely different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u87	Thank you very much, Members and Minister. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by the Members: Mrs Anna April and Mr Andrzej Cryj from Law and Justice. This is a question about the purchase of industrial apples by Eskimos SA, addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many years the very serious problem faced by Polish sadists, including those from Sandomierz and Grójecki districts, have been very low prices for apples. In the case of industrial apples, they are very often 8 and 10 gr per kg, which does not even ensure the reimbursement of production costs. This is due, on the one hand, to the dominant position on the market of buying and processing operators, imposing such low prices on farmers, without any economic justification, and on the other, exceptionally high apple harvests this year. Thanks to the efforts of the Minister of Agriculture, measures to stabilise the market for industrial apples, carried out by the Eskimos Stock Exchange Company, were implemented. The company received loan guarantees from the State to carry out this large and complex operation, including in terms of logistics, allowing the purchase of 0,5 million t apples at a price of 25 gr per kg, which is much higher than that offered by other entities. The focus started at the end of October 2018. From the apple producers I meet, I hear that they face many obstacles in selling apples to Eskimos. With this in mind, I ask you to answer the question: How do Eskimos buy industrial apples and are these critical voices from producers justified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u89	Thank you, sir. And I invite you to the speaker of Minister Tadeusz Romanchuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u90	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In his question, he outlined the problem, because it is true that such a problem occurred particularly this year when they gave birth to apples, especially those of industry, which is why the Ministry of Agriculture made such a request, with an appeal to companies, to all companies involved in the processing of industrial apples, to undertake on a business basis with the help of the state... Here the State, the Minister of Agriculture directly through KOWR, granted a guarantee to this company, Eskimos, to focus and process them - at least to a minimum - in the amount of 0.5 million tons of apples. And there were agreements between the lending bank, the guarantee and the company Eskimos, because this one volunteered to make this processing. And that's what's happening. Of course on the way - it was a very short time - these few problems appeared, among others. also from the competition, and it was not only competition in such a Polish edition, but especially with other capital, because of course these industrial apples have worn out, to a minimum, but have used up. But these problems were also overcome. The first tranche of money has been transferred. I took part in those conversations myself yesterday. The next stage of this agreement was realized, and in a short time... Practically from now on, there will be a realization. This is planned for just a few stages, because that's the only way it could be solved. And in spite of all the troubles that the sadists signaled about, because they actually appeared, the problem isn't growing, and it's solved, it's solved -- oh, that's how I'm gonna put it today. And that's the situation. The company Eskimos is fulfilling the task it has undertaken. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u91	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a second question, which will be asked by Mrs Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask about this very important issue for farmers, for the whole of our economy. Minister, I am convinced that the Ministry is nevertheless listening to critical voices and therefore analyzes and draws conclusions for the future. That is why I wanted to ask: Are you planning to correct this program next year? If so, what and what will this correction depend on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u93	Please answer the question of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u94	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put it this way: already this year, you could say, as you put it, in terms of correction, because the sugar company, which also belongs to the Treasury, also additionally took care of processing and already does so... [[I see.]] But as far as the next year is concerned, we want to prevent this problem in such a way that we plan - and actually the decision has been made - it is no longer a plan - it has been decided that, within the framework of this food holding which will be created, there will be three, four processing plants which will either be purchased or will cooperate with the holding company and which will deal with this processing for the following year. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u95	Thank you very much, Members and Minister. We move on to the next question that will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus and Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice. The question will be on State aid to local authorities in carrying out their own tasks concerning the childcare system under the age of 3 and at the age of 3, among others. the possibility of obtaining funds for the creation of places in nursery and kindergartens. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and will be answered by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus is asking the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Creating places in crèches and kindergartens, as well as providing care to seniors, of whom Minister Rafalska spoke in the context of the current questions at the previous meeting, is mainly part of the tasks of her own local authorities. In 2013, according to the European Commission's data, Poland had the least place in nursery and kindergartens against the background of the European Union. The availability of crèches is particularly important in the context of a demographic problem that the Law and Justice Government is also trying to combat. The biggest shortage of crèches is noted in rural communities. Only 9% rural communities have a regular care facility for the youngest children. So there is a great need to develop care for children up to the age of 3, but not all local governments want to create daycare. Local governments do not see such a need or do not want to spend money from their own budget. Government of Law and Justice, e.g. Through the "Maluch+' programme, it increased its financial expenditure in the area of aid to local governments, in the area of crèches creation, to 450 million per year. This is a three-fold increase compared to the maximum expenditure determined by the government of PO-PSL, when it was 151 million. But has this increased the number of nursing homes for the youngest ones? Are local governments using this money? As announced by Minister Rafalska, the funding for local governments wishing to create new places of care is expected to increase even further. But is there any interest in local governments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Creating new places in daycare, in kindergartens? What is the situation today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u97	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Messengers! Thank you very much for this question, I think, important in the context of the family policy pursued by the Government of Law and Justice. The child care programme up to the age of 3 is an important part of it. I think it is worth recalling the story here: how the program started, it was the amount of PLN 40 million. Today, we are talking about the amount of PLN 450 million allocated to the "Maluch+" programme and this is a very large increase. In the last 3 years, i.e. under the rule of law and justice, there has been an increase from 151 million to 450 million, i.e. a three-fold increase in funds for the "Maluch+" programme. Of course, I can only confirm what the honourable Member said, that when it comes to the so-called. The situation in Poland was and is still difficult. In the last 3 years, the rate has increased from 12%. to 19%, which is a lot of progress, but if we looked at the statistics, the distribution of the municipalities, we would see that in more than 60% The municipalities in Poland do not have any nursery care. Therefore, the programme that we are implementing, which we are improving, is aimed at local governments to create individuals, including local authorities. It is still worth remembering, I think, because I think those interested already know that on 28 November we announced a new edition of the programme for 2019. The selection of offers in this edition will last until 28 December this year. As I have already said, we spend PLN 450 million on this, and in the first place this program is directed to local government units. On the one hand there are preferences for those who do not have any unit, and the other module is aimed at those units in which it already functions, i.e. the functioning of these units. Here this share, the funding from the programme can amount to up to 80% of the cost of the task or 80% of the work. So we give priority to self-governments, so that in those local governments where there are no daycare units, such institutions were created, but we also add to existing crèches. We care about smaller centres, especially rural communities, where there is no such care. In 2019 it will be possible to finance up to 30 thousand. Evil about one place in nursery and a children's club. In 2018, it was 20,000, i.e. an increase of 10,000, a greater possibility. In the second module, in which we talk about functioning, there is also an increase, from 20,000. to 22,000. These are the values that are higher. They are also based on the analysis we carried out on the average cost of creating one place in the nursery. It evolved at a level of 30,000, hence the increase of 20,000. Up to 30,000. Evil so that we can really support it. As far as other options are concerned, also, I think an interesting solution is the offer addressed to local governments that implement the program This programme will also benefit from funding. Of course, at the moment this is a proposal addressed to local governments, we will see what the response from local governments will be. I think it is also worth mentioning another component, which is also important. That's what I call it. day care provider, i.e. cheaper form of childcare up to 3 years old. There are municipalities where there is no need for nursery, because there are not enough children or there is no such interest, and the day care provider can perfectly fill this gap. The self-government unit, the municipality in this case, can receive funding up to 5 thousand in one place, for the day's guardian. That's also, I think, a good solution. I think it is also worth recalling the solutions that we have been introducing since January this year, i.e. the greater possibility of creating nursery facilities. There was quite a discussion in the introduction of these changes, it was about facilitating the creation of crèches. It's working out today, because a lot of these daycare centers are up. Therefore, I can only confirm that, on the one hand, the measures are provided. We support this, also with regard to the resources of the Labour Fund, also bearing in mind those regions of the country where unemployment is high. These measures can be e.g. addressed to day care providers. If someone doesn't have a job, they can use this program, which means we give the opportunity on the one hand of a new job for someone, and on the other hand, daycare. So that when it comes to these solutions that we are proposing, and the program that is now announced, I can only persuade all local governments to do this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want them to benefit from this program. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u99	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u100	Minister! In the Responsible Development Strategy, there are tough assumptions which say that by 2030 the rate of compensation is 33%. I would like to ask you about the opportunity to achieve this indicator, given your experience with previous recruitments. How many requests from local government units? Can we say that this increase in the limit guarantees coverage of demand in this regard? Does the Minister have detailed information at the moment, what is the interest of entities other than local government units? Because from public space we hear that it is natural persons and NGOs who show greater interest than local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u101	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, Commissioner, I can confirm that the interest of non-public actors is high. This can be estimated as a percentage: 70% Up to 30%, i.e. self-government units are in minority. Therefore, this increase in this amount, which I was talking about, to create new crèches from 20,000. up to 30,000, taking into account the costs we have shown, we hope that there will be even greater interest from local governments, because local governments are given priority here. We want local crèches to be built. Of course, we do not exclude non-public entities, and they can benefit from this programme just as they already exist, but our main activity is directed at self-government crèches. Are we going to be able to achieve this? I think so, because in this short period of 3 years we managed to raise this rate by almost 10%. It's a big jump. It is important that we maintain stable funding. Today we are talking about an amount of 450 million, where one of the components is from the Labour Fund, i.e. 250 million, 200 million is from the state budget. I think it's a good financial solution that we have a lot of resources. In the case of the first programme, as I said, there is an increase from 40 million to 450. The threefold increase in these investments over the last three years has given us an opportunity. Of course, this action must also result from demand, because if there is no demand in a given community for day care, then the day care provider, as I said, can fill this gap. These are decisions on the one hand of the local government and on the other hand of the parents. It's about how they want to raise children. We are to facilitate the link between work and child rearing, but parents make the decision to do so. I hope that this programme that we are implementing will contribute to the fact that there will be more crèches as well as daily carers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u103	I would like to thank the Members and the Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 on the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the scale of the increase in electricity prices for households, local government units and entrepreneurs, the reasons for the increase in electricity prices and the planned measures to mitigate the effects of the changes in energy prices, as requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will be considered at this session of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In February 2018, Prime Minister Morawiecki assured that we would pay less for gas and electricity. On October 2, 2018, he spoke on the air of one of the commercial radio stations about the fact that we would not pay any more. On October 17th, on the CIRE pages, as a result of an interview by Minister Tchórzewski for the Polish Radio Triples, information appeared that energy prices for households could increase in 2019 by not more than 5%. 3 years ago, quoted by PAP, the Minister estimated that the cost of producing energy from wind farms was almost 500 PLN/MWh. The results of the first auctions for wind farms indicate that the cheapest wind farm in Poland will produce energy more than half cheaper than new coal plants. The auction results presented by the President of the URE show that investors who won it agreed to sell energy from new wind turbines at rates from less than PLN 157 to PLN 217, with an average of PLN 196/MWh. For comparison on the Freight Exchange on the day of publication of the results the price amounted to PLN 300. In fact, electricity prices have been rising since the beginning of 2018. Wholesale prices increased from PLN 180 to PLN 300. These assurances are merely premier, ministerial truths about the price of energy and about the appropriateness of investing in RES. These galloping energy prices affect households, businesses from steelworks to bakeries. As a result, we will pay more in the store for bread, butter, milk or meat. The increase in food prices is estimated to be around 20% and some food producers even indicate that this increase can range from 35% to 40%. Local authorities also face drastic increases in energy prices. The town of Rzeszów is an example. As decided on 3 October 2018, the purchase of energy resulted in a price of 68% higher than in 2018. The seller's not anonymous. It's a PGE turn. All the residents of Rzeszow will pay for this raise. This will have a negative impact on schools, kindergartens, crèches, hospitals, social services, cultural, tourist or sports services. The energy policy of PiS will affect every Pole, villagers and cities. The unprecedented scale of the expected increases is shocking. It will be difficult to maintain a standard of living because modern man is dependent on energy and energy is bread for the economy. The competitiveness of the Polish economy will also decrease. In a normal market economy, it is difficult to imagine such a drastic price increase, as the market economy must be predictable. Such conduct is therefore contrary to the rules of merchant honesty or ethics. What's with the raises? Probably due, first, to the increase in CO2 prices, mainly due to the reform of the ETS, which was completed in March 2017. Everyone points out that for Poland there was much more free access to the modernization fund. But what was the Polish Minister of Environment doing then? He was busy fighting the corkscrew at the time. Secondly, the lack of liquidity on the commodity energy exchange and despite the noisy announcements increase the obligation, after changes to the Energy Law, to 100% comes out nothing, because it's about 40%. Thirdly, the withdrawal from Poland of a number of energy companies, EDF, ENERGY, GDF, which resulted in the practical elimination of electricity generators, which remains solely in the hands of state-owned companies. The money - fourthly - of state companies, which is therefore derived from each Pole, is used to save buildings through expenditure on Polimex, which, as no one else wrote, like the President of Jastrzębska Węglowa, should be regarded as an act against the detriment of the company and minority shareholders, and the previously indicated path followed by other energy companies. Moreover, a specific approach to the economy and market economy confirms the statements made by Minister Tchórzewski regarding the implementation of the project of the power plant in Ostrołęka, which confirms the specific understanding and the fact that you really care about the rules of the market economy, because it seems that the leadership of unification is more important. Electricity consumers today spend money on building an electric car, supposed to finance buying a bus factory or billboards to show how bad the judges are. The question arises as to whether the energy consumer is to pay for every whim of the company's director. This degradation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] energy companies raise capital costs and shift to investment costs. Is energy supposed to be a cure for all evil? It seems that this energy industry itself needs a good doctor first. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u105	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Minister of Energy of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The problem raised by your Member is so wide that it is extremely difficult to fit in these 10 minutes as a question, but I will try partly now and partly in response to questions. Before I move on to the issue of electricity prices, I would like to make a brief comment on the allegations made to me concerning the conduct of a bad energy policy. My fellow Members accuse me of being absurd, namely eliminating renewable energy. I would like to inform the public that in October and November this year. there have been several auctions dedicated to renewable energy sources. These auctions are the result of a new, comprehensive approach to RES and dialogue with the RES industry. In addition, I would like to inform you that in Poland's energy policy for consultation by 2040 we expect an increase in the share of RES in the final consumption of electricity from the current level of 11%. up to 21% in 2030, i.e. practically doubling. As regards the share of RES in electricity production, it will be even higher in 2030 and will be 27%. Currently we assume that the announced volume for RES auctions in 2019 will not be less than 2500 MW. In order to illustrate the size of this number to non-energyists, I inform that 2500 MW is equivalent to two large blocks, as large as the construction plant in Ostrołęka mentioned by your Member, and I will add the largest Polish gas block. So much for the RES auctions next year. By the way, I would like to stress very strongly that it would not be possible to build a power plant in Ostrołęka if the financial basis had not been met. This power plant is built on a typical economic basis. It is simply cost-effective. It is hard to imagine that a power plant with a cost of more than PLN 6 billion is built only from its own resources. And there is no possibility either in Poland or in the European Union that banks will lend for such a construction if it does not meet the economic conditions. I merely added one thing, namely that at that point in time, from the point of view of renewable energy requirements and the European Union's policy direction, the departure from this construction was dictated and that was your decision at that time. On the other hand, the need for synchronisation with Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia as soon as possible would also be dictated by an approach to this and agreement with the European Commission. Because the European Commission is aware of all the activities that the Ministry of Energy is currently taking. We do not do anything in which we would like to bypass the European Commission and without negotiating with it or without information we will not take any action. We are a transparent resort in this respect. On 9 November I presented in the Sejm the current diagnosis of the situation in the electricity market. I have presented all the actions I have taken, and now I am presenting in detail the explanations which I have also presented in response to the numerous speeches made by those Members who have addressed them to me. I would like to repeat the main facts, because the issue concerns the same issue, namely electricity prices, and to supplement this information, because during this time intensive work was being done in the department on the compensation scheme. As regards the analysis and considerations related to electricity prices, the price of electricity in the wholesale market, i.e. on the stock exchange, must be distinguished from the electricity charges borne by the customers. The mode of communication indicates that the entire bill that the recipient pays would be increased by 60 or 80%. It's just a lie. The price of electricity is only one of the components of the electricity bill and its percentage change does not translate in a 1:1 ratio into a change in the electricity bill paid by consumers. This is due to the fact that in the bill paid are still different from the energy price elements: distribution costs, excise duties or VAT. In the household account, they account for 50% all costs. So if we say that the price of energy is rising by 5%, then the cost is rising by 2.5%. I'll refer to wholesale prices. Indeed, in the second and third quarters of this year. There has been an increase in electricity prices across Europe on stock exchanges. This situation does not only apply to Poland, but to the European Union as a whole. It is very interesting that prices are also rising in countries with a very high share of RES. For example, in Poland there was one of the smaller price increases on the stock market across Europe, if you compare prices on the stock exchange in September ub. r. with September br. This should indicate the data I have collected by the end of September. Price factors caused that in Poland this price increase rate is lower than in other countries, because in Poland in the first three quarters energy coal prices increased by only about 15%. . This is due to the fact that the prices that energy currently pays for coal result from long-term contracts signed immediately after the restructuring of coal mining and after the formation of the Polish Górnicza Group. For example, at the same time, the gas used 45% of the spot market, the emission rights exceeded almost 300%, the green certificates by 150%. , electricity on the spot market increased by 50% and oil by 50%. I'm talking about prices that apply. I would add that in Sweden electricity prices on the wholesale market increased by 72% - from 22 to 38 euros. In Germany, which... [[We live in Poland.]] ...so to speak, they dominate Europe and are at the head of the construction of RES, prices have increased by 55%. [[How much do they make there?]] This is the percentage increase in prices for the price that was 12 months earlier in September ub. R., we're talking about earnings... [[We've got 55%, too.]] ...with an increase in percentage, i.e. an increase in percentage and in Poland. So we're referring to the actual price level at the moment. If we take this into account... I would also like to inform you that I intend to do so, actually preparing a speech to the Chairs of the supervisory boards of energy companies to carry out a comprehensive cost analysis and to introduce extraordinary austerity programmes to enable these prices to change again next year. I would also like to add that the possibility for the Minister of Energy to intervene in connection with your decision that companies have been made public is extremely small in this regard, because all stock exchange regulations must be respected. It is not a single company, a company of the Treasury, where the owner can make any decisions. Market conditions are crucial here and it is difficult to say at this point that it is only the responsibility of the Minister of Energy. I would add that the pricing of households is carried out in the tariff system, and that is also not the case - not only in this area - that companies decide themselves, but must have the recognition of the actual costs of the CEO of URE. I would also like to stress - returning to the electricity price for final consumers - that it is also worth looking at the data published by the European Commission concerning the second quarter of 2018. This data also shows that the unit cost of energy for households in Poland increased by the end of the second quarter. At this point it developed as follows: 620 PLN per MWh, while in Germany 1300 PLN per UK - 830 PLN, and the price factors are the same because the most price-forming factor is currently [[♪ The bell ♪]] the price of emission rights. Their price rose by 400%, the cost of emission rights was increased from EUR 5 to the average price currently set at around EUR 19 That is why we are indeed preparing compensation. These compensations will include urban households, rural households, hospice, welfare homes, dorms, boarding houses, children's homes, small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises and all other recipients who benefit from the G tariff. Regardless of the work on the compensation scheme, I would like to add that there is still an energy supplement that the most needy benefit from. It stands for a single person almost PLN 11.5 per month, for families consisting of 2 and 4 persons - PLN 15 and PLN 18 for families consisting of at least 5 persons. So, in this area too, the state does not forget those who need help.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u107	Minister, we'll finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u108	I'm almost done. I would like to add that with compensation we will partially alleviate, and in part we will completely reduce the issue of energy price increases. I would also like to add that the current economic situation, however, is extremely important because... The most important thing is how much is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u109	Minister, we're on our way to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u110	I'll tell you the rest in answer to your questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u111	And it's gonna be the perfect time to fill in. I thank the Minister, and I inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Do any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still want to be on the list? If so, please, and if not, I'm closing this list. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Maciej Małecki from the Law and Justice to his first speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It can be heard from Members of the opposition that the main cause of the rise in electricity prices is the national energy mix and carbon dioxide emissions. Minister! I ask you to inform the High House from this point on, which last year the country emitted the most carbon dioxide and what Poland looks like in this context. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] And by the way. It is particularly worth saying this to the Members of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, on a shield you hit Polish coal. I can't imagine Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iraq or Iran complaining about their wealth in the form of oil, of which energy is also emission. So, Minister, which state emits the most carbon dioxide? It's worth introducing such a fan to the public... [[And which one has the biggest smog?]] ...that's exactly what she remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u113	Thank you. I invite you to the speaker of Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Broken limousines, PiS family on their undue prizes and bonuses under the name: we were entitled to, financial scandals of Sensus Group, GetBack or the last KNF require billing. The scandal is that for your loose conduct, for your Byzantium, for your scandals, you make all Poles pay their bills by means of a drastic increase in energy prices. This is particularly affecting local governments and businesses. The city of Rzeszów, mentioned here, will pay 68% for energy. more and is somehow forced to accept these scandalous conditions, because the refusal to sign the contract results in draconian penalties for supplying energy in reserve sales. The same is true of buying energy for the lighting of the city. There's an increase of 46%. This horrendous increase is affecting the city's interests, but most of all, it's affecting its inhabitants. This is the case for hundreds of Polish cities and municipalities. This is a huge threat to the functioning of hospitals and medical facilities. What about small businesses, companies, shops, which often function on the threshold of profitability? To whom will these actors shift the burden of rising energy prices? It is a pity that the Minister did not compare the cost of increases with the extraordinary earnings of the companies' authorities, amounting to nearly 100,000. monthly. It is so often placed by you on the banners, changed by all cases of social justice, only that for the PiS these words mean: a milk change. In return, you offer compensation. It was the same in the commune. I remember those times when power was one hand giving people raises, and on the other hand, it compensated for those raises. How are you going to compensate local governments for such a drastic increase in energy costs to prevent them from hindering development? How will these compensations come from? Or are these increases designed to save energy companies managed by PiS-owskis, in quotes, professionals? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u115	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened to the Minister's speech. I thought I'd find out something interesting. I didn't find out anything. Once, two years ago, I asked about RES, what about the Polish RES, it was the Minister who said here that there was a mistake, because we have too many RES in our country, some billions have to be paid, citizens pay extra. Today we have a devastating report from NIK, which says that 8 billion will have to be paid back because we are not going to implement the plan. Or was it better to use this money for the development of renewable energy, for clean air, to make our lives better? This shows how hypocritical it is for today. But this is a drama for our economy and for our people. I mean, it's been known a long time ago that prices... [[You should have done something.]] ...they're up on the stock market. And it's not like it's only gonna be 2%, 5% As the Minister says. [[Eight years.]] Self-governments are already getting proposals 70% And it's unrejectable, like they said here. In Rzeszów, a busy city, there is a drama at the moment, because it is not known whether to build crèches, as was mentioned in the earlier question, whether to illuminate the streets. Today we have another signal: hospitals. The dramatic situation will be in the hospitals. It's all electricity out there, that electricity is needed for everything. What's next in the hospitals? Will there be compensation? There will be compensation for the electricity. You mentioned an energy supplement here. Minister, this is a joke. We have proposed renewable energy sources, development and support, reducing VAT from 23% to 15% at the last sitting. Do you know, Mr. Minister, because I don't think he even knows that you voted to reject this proposal, and yet people could install their devices much cheaper and produce the electricity themselves. The finance minister said he wasn't interested and you voted no. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you include compensation for the cost of life of citizens? I mean, they're gonna grow hugely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u117	Thank you. Mr Robert Majka, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to energy costs, one should answer the simple question: Were the reforms of the Polish state after 1989 correct? The plan of George Soros and Jeffrey Sachs led to the fact that the cost of functioning of the state, the Third Republic of Poland, is terrifying. My question is: What is the economic state of the country, the data for 1989 and 2018? Such a state report has not been announced until today. This may be funny to you, but unfortunately I would like to obtain such a document from Mr Morawiecki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u119	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the 21st century there was a clear rise in electricity prices. Previously, they were relatively low. Many factors influence these prices. One of them is to pay attention to environmental measures that are costly. Minister! Please provide information on the increase in electricity prices as regards the household tariff for the period 2007 to 2015 i.e. during the government of the PO-PSL coalition. [[Voice from the room: The more interesting is 2019.]] How did the level of these prices evolve in relation to the level of earnings at the time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, PO-KO Club, has the floor. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Cool!]] [[Perhaps you'd like to read it correctly, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u122	Mr. Marshal and High Izbo! Dear Minister, 14 million tons of coal was imported to Poland, including 10 million tons from Russia, in the last three quarters. Minister, I wanted to ask you how much will the Poles pay for the CO2 emissions coming from the burning of this coal from Russia, imported into Poland? Poles will pay their own health, because we all know that about 36 thousand people die from smog. Poles a year. Minister! The Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts thunders, writes to everyone, to the Prime Minister, to Members, looking for help. The recent tender for the purchase of electricity by the Upper Silesia-Zęgębie Metropolis, which we established here in the Seym, resulted in a price increase of more than 63%. The amount mentioned in the next offer that appeared exceeds that price. Will you also pay the local government? Will you compensate for this loss? How much do you pay to hospitals that lose tens of millions of dollars, and that's going to be billions? And finally tell me, since you've prepared compensation, if the energy prices actually rise. Tell that to the Poles here clearly, because you are talking about growth, about compensation for only the price for the household. What about the other products? Will you also pay compensation to Poles in connection with these increases? Should Poles collect data on the price increase of individual products and send to you to compensate them for these expenses? What is your policy on rising energy prices for each Pole? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u124	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! It was supposed to be a good change, and there's definitely a road and a cash change. Prices of consumer products and services are rising rapidly. The announcement of a 30% increase in electricity prices for individual farms causes great concern, because everyone knows that it will hit the pockets of all Poles, especially the poorest ones. The government plans to compensate for the rise in electricity prices for individual and small businesses, but unfortunately this does not apply to all companies. One thing's for sure. If companies pay more for electricity, the costs incurred will include goods and services that will increase by around 15%. . Hence my question: How long will the government compensate for the effects of these increases? Will these compensations also include increases in the prices of goods and services which will increase due to the fact that large companies will not receive compensation? And question two. The increase in electricity prices will be even greater for local authorities, it is a few dozen percent. If the local government spends more money on energy, it will not make investments that serve residents, including road investments. So I ask: Will the government compensate local governments for increased electricity spending? And if not, will the government take responsibility for unfulfilled tasks? Of course, one thing's for sure. After a while, the government will repel success, announce greater VAT revenues, and they will certainly be bigger, because everything will be more expensive. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have heard that compensation for the increase in electricity prices is intended to cover small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm sure that's great information for these companies. Minister, could we hear when the first proposed compensation for these companies might be affected? Taking this opportunity, I would also like to thank the Minister very warmly on behalf of the Polish coal mining industry, particularly the brown coal industry, and especially on behalf of the Brunat Coal Mine in Bełchatów, for supporting this industry, which has not needed any gold since 1989, and produces the cheapest energy in the country, generating measures that allow innovation, to introduce new technologies that, for example, reduce pollution, which we are talking so much about here. I would also like to ask: Is there a need for protection from industrial and professional energy for every kilogram of renewable energy? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Aziewicz from the PO-KO club. [[Voice from the room: Please state the full name.]] [[PO-KO.]] I'm sorry, but I don't watch TV and I don't really know what's going on. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How?]] You're welcome, sir. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The projected price increase is the result of the system errors made by the PiS government... [[Voice from the room: Learn to read.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u129	But don't bother him.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u130	...depending on Polish energy from mining - time has shown that not only from Polish but also from Russian, which has nothing to do with slogans about energy security. Minister! Last year I asked questions that I repeat today: Is mining for the economy or the economy for the mining industry? Is energy for the economy, is the economy for the energy? Why is your policy aimed at satisfying the industry lobby at the expense of the Polish consumer and the competitiveness of our economy? Why are you giving us high energy prices by ignoring the achievements of the civilized world? Because technological progress in this area is taking place, and we are not taking advantage of its effects. You also ignore common sense. I would also like to mention the embarrassing multi-voice that took place at the climate summit, and I would like to say this as a Pomerania resident, who particularly painfully felt the effects of the storms caused by global warming. Why don't you respect national wealth, property in the form of energy companies? Their value has fallen dramatically because of your guilt. It is a government of about PLN 12 billion. I am aware that personal carousels in high positions allow many Pisiewicz to earn, but they prevent rational management and generate costs, and ultimately people will pay for everything. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Teddy bears.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, PSL-UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u132	Here no TV, I see, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I don't know if it's funny, but of course it's a thing of taste. [[Voice from the room: It's funny.]] [[Less of your companies.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The problem we are talking about now is of course very important, important for everyone, and for family, household, and for companies, and for local governments. In a word for everyone, the problem is very, very important. After all, we are talking about growth or growth proposals not by 5% or 10% What would be more to explain, we're just talking about a row of 50%, 70% , and sometimes even greater potential price increases. That's what's bothering you, and he's wondering. It is bubbling because in the autumn, not so long ago, of course before the local elections you assured the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister himself - this was also mentioned here - that there would be no increase. Then there was a slight change that would be, but small, and there would be shields, compensation. You confirm this today, so I wanted to ask, Minister, at what stage are the work on this form of compensation. I'm asking you about legal regulations. When will there be a bill, a regulation, so that we can get acquainted with these regulations? But I'm also asking about financial security. To be fair, there is no way to find the amount of compensation in the 2019 budget. And one more question. As part of your questions on current issues a few dozen minutes ago, referring to a similar issue, Minister, you said that coal prices in Poland are low, even the lowest in Europe. And therefore the question: Did the change in mining ownership shift the costs to energy, or - and that would also be an explanation for these growths - became some miracle and the miners fedre cheaper? Is it? Maybe the result of this extremely large imports of coal, please note this, especially from Russia? This time we would ask for a truthful answer, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not the kind you gave a few months ago. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u134	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I will start with such a digression: some MPs of the PO-KO club behave like a classic dog of Pavlov. The law and justice password is dropping, and they're starting to attack us, not really remembering what happened before. And before that, there was a situation that the alternative to Polish coal in energy was to be a nuclear power plant. And what happened during your reign, gentlemen? Your friend became head of the company, made 55 grand. PLN per month and had a great son, and the power plant, which was supposed to deliver electricity in 2019, is supposed to deliver it 12 years later. [[It's already been done.]] You're talking about importing coal. What were you doing? You shut down the mines and fired at the protesting miners on your orders. [[We've closed eight mines.]] So more humility, ladies and gentlemen of the PO-KO club, more humility. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! It is very good news that small and medium-sized enterprises will be compensated for the rise in energy prices. I have a question: Wouldn't there be a problem with the European Union at this point in time that might question such a form of public aid? And the second question is already very specific. I was approached by NSZZ's trade unionists from the City Water Supply and Sewerage Company in Ostrowiec, who asked if a company such as theirs, providing water to tens of thousands of residents of Ostrowiec and the Ostrowiec district, could be covered by such aid. And to my friends at the PO-KO club, I'm gonna say cool, guys, cool. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, PO-KO Parliamentary Club. [[Voice from the room: PO-KO, ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I think it's time for you to take a look at the proposal you've received regarding the creation of a new club. It's not right for a marshal to behave the way you behave today. [[Applause]] I perform as a representative of the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is very difficult for representatives of PiS, Law and Justice to refer to the situation for which... [[Voice from the room: Excuse me, how do you know?]] I understand that it is very difficult for you to refer to the situation you are responsible for, and that is why you are running away from the situation 5 or 10 years ago. On the other hand, Minister Tchórzewski announced compensation not in... [[Because it didn't happen today. These are your backlogs.]] ... 2010, only in 2019. And the sense of responsibility for governments in Poland, responsibility to Poles who listen to it, for which electricity costs are very important in their budgets, would require that we say, therefore, that compensation will be made. [[That's the deal you signed.]] They're gonna be about the raises. Today, you are responsible for telling Poles what increases they are supposed to expect, how these increases will affect them next year. While the whole world is concerned about how to reduce the increase in the average temperature on earth, how to reduce or stop fossil fuel burning, the PiS government puts its stakes on coal. What kind of coal? For Russian coal. You've stopped investment in renewable energy and you're bringing in more and more coal from Russia. In Poland you poison and in Russia you keep jobs. Your energy policy, these increases are the result of irresponsible policies, bringing in, importing Russian coal, holding investment in renewable energy. For this Poles will pay for their own health. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they're gonna pay in the electric bill. The reason for this is the terrible rule of PiS. [[Applause]] [[Cool!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u137	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a question about households. There are about 15 million households in Poland and this will be a huge organisational challenge for the Ministry in terms of compensation. 15 million is much larger than the number of beneficiaries of the 500+ programme and the expedition+, which is why my question is: How is the Ministry going to deal with this problem? And one more question. The Ministry submitted on 23 November this year. project of the new energy policy of Poland. My question is whether the document provides for measures limiting the impact of climate policy on the development of current energy prices. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u139	Thank you very much. Are you Mr Cezary Tomczyk? [[He'll come.]] There isn't. [[He'll be back later.]] Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Electricity prices will go up from the new year, as we know. We know that there will be compensation for about PLN 2 billion for both small and medium-sized enterprises as well as for individual customers. I have a question, though. What action will the government take in the future to make this price of electricity acceptable to both the economy and individual consumers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, PO-KO Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Lying and hypocrisy - this is what PiS has consistently fed Poles for 3 years. 12 December 2017, Prime Minister Morawiecki: We want to eliminate this energy poverty and improve the quality of life of all Poles. On 20 December, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced cheaper electricity from 2018 on the night fare by 40%. In September 2018, Minister Tchórzewski assured that there were no increases in household electricity prices. PiS politicians, who still wanted a statutory ban on coal imports from Russia in 2014, today allow imports of coal by a wide stream, including from Russia, for three quarters is 10 million t, subsidising the Russian miner. However, energy price increases will affect not only all households, but also local governments, which alarm a few decades of price increases, hospitals. The costs of operating social assistance units, education will go enormously up. Minister Tchórzewski talks about compensation for rising energy prices. I have the following questions. If the Minister is talking about compensation, then where does the money come from, if not from the pockets of Poles? Will each household receive such compensation? Whether this compensation will reflect 100% an increase in energy prices? How much compensation will the entrepreneurs receive and according to what criteria? Will they also receive compensation for the operation of hospitals, the functioning of communications, electric buses in which they have invested to reduce low emissions, including in my city of Jaworzno? The Minister spoke of an appeal to energy companies to reduce costs. Is there a recommendation in this appeal for a multimillion-dollar reduction? [[♪ The bell ♪]] remuneration for board members? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Is it? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The German energy transformation is presented in many sources, in many discussions, also here today, as a role model. Excuse me, Minister, what is the level of energy prices in Germany? Isn't it at one of the higher levels according to the European Commission's figures? And can the people there count on state aid with such increases in energy prices? The question to the Minister is whether coal mines work in Germany, because I have the impression that coal mines are only in Poland, and in Germany... [[They're not working. They're bringing...]] ...they weren't there? What is the size of coal mines in Germany and Poland? How does that work? And in the context of this whole... [[But we're talking about the Polish government.]] ...Conversations on CO2 emissions, Minister, what is the dynamics of improving the level of CO2 emissions in Poland in recent years, in the past? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We're taking it from Russia. We're still taking it from Russia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u145	Thank you. Mrs Nykiel isn't here, is she? Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, it is good that this information is presented today in the Polish Sejm. The Poles will eventually learn that the resort has taken far-reaching measures to compensate for the rise in energy prices contrary to what the Members of the PO-KO say. Minister, can large energy-intensive consumers also count on government support? We know that especially with these customers... [[Everyone's gonna be on welfare.]] ...the price of electricity plays a big role, [[Game in the O.R.]] That's why I'm asking. And the MPs in the PO-KO are still in the way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u147	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the PO-KO club has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very surprised that the PIS Members are so calm. In 2019 every Polish citizen will be affected by price armageddon. Thanks to your politics, everyone will feel a loss of money in their wallet, e.g. in relation to the basic food basket of 10% .15% . We'll feel it on the trains. We'll feel it by buying every product in the shops. We're gonna feel like we're gone. You are calm until you look in the face of your constituents, because they will ask you what happened, why they are living worse as a result of your governments in 2019. You're gonna have to answer that. And it won't be cool then, sir. The problem is... [[In your opinion.]] ...you have a vision, a concept of energy development of the country by 2040, a creative vision... [[Voice from the room: This is our problem, not yours.]] ...in which coal is one of the leading products. The fact that it is already in 2044 35%, but then it will be Ostrołęka. Minister, please tell me whether the price of energy from the coal power plant in Ostrołęka will be lower or higher than the price of energy generated from renewable energy sources. Please note that we already have PLN 190 per MWh at the auction of the wind energy that you don't like, and meanwhile, at the coal we have at the moment 300 and 350. So how is this going to be in a drawn bill and which really is the cheapest energy mix, or is the coal-based energy mix or the energy mix - in a drawn bill - based on renewable energy sources? Is energy in the neighbouring countries that are transforming, with a new energy mix cheaper, in your opinion, whether it will be more expensive than this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will be related to coal energy in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u149	Thank you very much. Member Wiesław Krajewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I understand the sacred right of opposition to criticize the government and the majority of Parliament, to express their opinions and reviews on this subject, but I call for a little sense and moderation in this very important area of energy security and electricity generation for all areas of our lives. Dear Minister, more and more often than Members of the opposition, we can hear that electricity from renewable energy sources is the cheapest electricity. Minister, I ask you very much to state the current cost of generating energy according to these technologies, because I believe that it is necessary to inform the public whether the statements made by the opposition Members are true or whether, as is often the case, they are missing the truth and serve only to achieve the political goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u151	Thank you. Please, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński from the PO-KO club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u152	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to discuss the facts, if you agree. The fact is that the price of energy is to rise, the fact is that it is to increase for individual farms and for industry. Another thing is who's gonna fund it out of whose pocket, but let's not argue about it. And now what are the reasons for the price increase? Let's agree that they're external, independent of us. This is Europe's climate policy, the world, and this is technology development, and this is also EU law that we must respect. But let us remember that, Minister, I would also like you to remember that coal is simply a component of prices and does not even account for 30% of the final price. And if we have, in addition to these external factors, those internal conditions that depend on us, then, Minister, here I may resent you because you have given in to the pressure of energy sharks that dictate the terms. The indicators that can be read in the URE are clear: the level of energy concentration increases by more than 14% from year to year has reached 70%. This is a dictatorship that seeks a similar one from the '90s. They include in the price fixed costs, distribution, transmission, power market, now cogeneration and for all this pay the citizen at the end. It's in your hands, Minister, it doesn't depend on external factors, it's an energy policy built under the pressure of our great energy monopolies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can't accept that, and you, Minister, should fight it too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we're talking about electricity prices. But let's go back to history. Here I have a question for the Minister: Isn't this really the state of affairs of the PO-PSL coalition government that signed the relevant documents? I would very much ask for information from the Minister on this subject. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And, historically speaking, do we remember when Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz came to Silesia with one piece of agreement for the mines - wasn't she supposed to be the liquidation of these mines? And here, on this issue, I wanted to thank the Minister for the fact that the Polish Górnicza Group was established, which saved Polish coal, which introduced coal into the area of energy cogeneration, because we need to talk about a wider spectrum, not just focus on things that I would say, selective, and so here gentlemen from the Platform and from Modern are serving us statements. Economists agree that the most expensive electricity is energy not supplied to both trade and businesses, i.e. to customers when there is no continuity of deliveries. We remember the summer of August 2015 under the governments of PO and PSL, when unfortunately there were power shortages and various consequences in the economy we felt. Please, Minister, also to indicate the power balance in Poland today and in the perspective of a few years. And let us really remember, let us really remember who is responsible for these issues in energy, because as a result of the agreements signed by the PO-PSL governments we have this situation, which with great efficiency... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Check it out carefully.]] ...resolves the government on behalf of Law and Justice. He defends Poles so that they do not bear great costs in these matters... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u155	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not exceed the time, because I would not like to turn off the microphone from anybody, either from the PiS or from the PO-KO. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, PO-KO Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u156	Thank you very much. A citizen's club... Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, we're actually on the eve of very high increases. These are increases, which are to reach not only the ordinary citizen on his account, which will pay for the used electricity, but also have components that will be from local governments, will be from other places, will be from manufacturers of different goods. So let's agree that this is not just a raise, for which there will be compensation for citizens. Therefore, I have a question: Why is the government deceiving citizens about compensation for increases in electricity prices? Where in the budget do we have items on compensation for these citizens? After all, the budget is due next week. Where do we get compensation for local governments? It is known that there will be an increase in the area of the entire infrastructure, in communication, in the case of street lighting, in all matters relating to the functioning of cities and not only cities, in each municipality. Where are these compensations hidden? Let the minister show you where the paragraph where it is. It is known that hospitals are already talking about increases, often 100 percent, in electricity prices. Where is this raise included in the budget or in another formula? Show us all this. For me, at the moment, it is surprising that we are also participants in the climate summit, hosts, the Prime Minister is leaving and says that we will have more renewable energy, and then the President comes in two hours, he says: no, no, no such energy, the coal base will continue to be as much as it is right now. At the same time, coal [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're coming from Russia. Where's the logic? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u157	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u158	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! It is clear that the Platform Members are ashamed of the new shortcut PO-KO, I do not understand why. Minister, the Platform asks about electricity prices and today assures the public that it cares about households, local government units and entrepreneurs. We know that state energy policy requires planned, long-term and consistent action. Members of the opposition today from this speaker were talking about hypocrisy, I understand that they were talking about their own. [[You weren't prepared to rule.]] That is why I would like to say: I am checking and asking the Minister what the Platform Government has done in this area in the years 2007 to 2015. Members of the Platform, you will not avoid these difficult questions and listen to the answers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Minister! Is it true that one of the reasons why we are forced to talk today about the rise in electricity prices is that transmission networks are not being modernised? [[Ha, ha, ha.]] What investments were made in transmission networks in 2007 and 2015? Have any specialties been prepared for their improvement? If so, when were they prepared? In the context of today's discussion, the answers to these questions are important and I think Poles should hear them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u159	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, PO-KO Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, that's not one word, Room. If anything, it's peo kao.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u161	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u162	Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, the governing party in ministers and prime ministers presented a balance sheet of 3 years. Law and Justice are responsible for increasing electricity and reducing the competitiveness of the Polish economy. [[Applause]] This is the conclusion. of these 3 years when it comes to Polish energy and the economy. Mrs. Member! Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński signed the commitments of the EU Summit in March 2007. This later turned into the provisions of the climate pact. The guaranteed arrangements were signed by President Lech Kaczyński as a representative of the Polish party, and he ruled then Jarosław Kaczyński - it's okay. The problem is that today you are not able to do this policy by setting the rules that we are now calling for in relation to emission allowances... We lost when voting on the allocation of allowances from this pool precisely because we are unable to build coalitions with other countries. Today the Polish economy is losing its competitiveness. Minister! You're talking about the government giving subsidies. The government doesn't have any money. You need to take them out of taxpayers' pockets, just like you took over 11 billion into inefficient mining. Today, experts from the Jagiellonian Institute say... [[Another scare.]] ...that the electricity industry, the economy will pay PLN 15 billion more in 2019 than in 2016 and PLN 22 billion in 2020. This will reduce our economic efficiency, our competitiveness. That is the truth when it comes to economic life. Everything's gonna get expensive, and lying about reality, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fact that there will be subsidies is that you will take out of one pocket, the taxpayer's pocket, to give some out of the other pocket. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u164	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The energy policy strategy is not a matter of the last three years. Dear opposition, you must know this. [[There it is. 2005, 2006 and 2007.]] Minister! Is it true that in 2008 Prime Minister Donald Tusk signed an adverse climate package for Poland, that Members of Law and Justice on 11 January 2012 submitted a draft resolution to the Sejm to allow the Prime Minister of the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL Donald Tusk to start renegotiating with the European Union on the adverse provisions of the package? [[President.]] By the draft resolution we already warned - we did not have to refer here to scientists from institutes - that after the entry of the package, when the free CO2 emissions end in 2019, there will be a sharp rise in electricity prices. [[Russian coal. Russian coal.]] You were completely indifferent. You didn't respond. You didn't let this resolution work and you didn't let the government renegotiate the package. Has the Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL, Minister, taken any action that would result in a reduction in CO2 emissions prices? [[Voice from the room: 3 years, 3 years.]] And what actions of the Law and Justice Government and you, Minister, have you taken to make these prices of CO2 emission allowances lower? Is it true, Minister, that under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, highly developed countries have a duty to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Poland has been obliged to [[♪ The bell ♪]] to reduce by 6%? The Government of Law and Justice negotiated that in the case of Poland the reduction of CO2 emissions would be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u165	Thank you very much. Time's up. Madam President, I very much asked you not to exceed it, because I will have to delete both the Law and Justice Members and the new club. Please, now Mrs Ewa Kołodziej from the PO-KO Parliamentary Club. [[Peo kao.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u166	Thank you. Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Tchórzewski have repeatedly assured the public that Poles are not threatened by price increases, that they have nothing to fear in the new calendar year. At the same time, for several weeks in practically every medium we find information that Poles are waiting for drastic price increases. And very well, the media did not let themselves be misled by good change and reliable inform citizens. I ask: How can you cheat like that? How can you lie like that, tell Poles there's no danger? Especially when there is a climate summit in Katowice, my hometown. There Poland capitulated, informing the whole world that the only idea for the Polish economy is the coal-based economy. But the most annoying thing for me as a Silesian is that this coal is not Polish, it is not Silesian. He's imported from Russia. In addition, the Silesians have grown to this, they are aware that in Silesia it is necessary to invest in new jobs outside the mining sector, that Silesia must be green, that we must carry out the evolution of this land, otherwise we will not survive. In addition, how can people be told that there will be no price increases when State Treasury companies are drained and tied to financing government social programs? How can you believe that there will be no price increases when you have practically deviated completely from investing in RES? The announcement of eliminating windmills on land only clearly shows this policy. How can you believe that there will be no price increases when today we know that we will pay giant penalties for CO2 emissions into the atmosphere? Next year it will be PLN 4 billion, in the next year - PLN 8 billion and more. How can you believe there will be no price increases as soon as October... The wholesale prices for electricity next year will go up and went up by 40% on the stock exchange, and actually today it's 60%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can one believe that there will be no price increases when the most energy-intensive industry is the food industry and food prices will go up by 10 . In industry... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u167	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna Cicholska from the PiS Parliamentary Club. There is no Member. Therefore, Mr Michał Szczerba from the PO-KO Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in electricity costs is here and now. Minister is Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Prime Minister is Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister is not Donald Tusk. Don't talk about prehistory. Do not talk about prehistory here, because in a moment some Member of PiS-owski will come and talk about a mammoth whose remains were found during the construction of the subway on the Warsaw Wola. We're here now. And what are the facts? Listen up. Firstly, care and treatment facilities, long-term care institutions. We have data from the Polish Towns Association at the moment. These raises are going to hit 80%. bets. At the moment, in tenders which are carried out on electricity by local governments, these are increases of 55%. The offer is so much bigger. How does that work? These rates - a person's day for specific persons, and in Poland there are 32 thousand in care and treatment facilities. people - they will touch these people. It's not a virtual problem. This problem means, from 1 January, less food for patients in care and medicine facilities in Poland, less wages for workers, less other activities, for example, related to rehabilitation. There is no understanding of the problems of people with disabilities on this side of the room. Let's talk about it, about the details. Here's a specific man who gets less to eat, will have worse care and worse operating conditions, and should get out of the disease, should come back to society someday. At the moment, be aware, in the cost structure of care and medical facilities in Poland this is the third position, after salaries and after meals. This may be even greater than the cost of food. That's the problem, and that's your problem that you didn't settle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, PiS Club. There isn't. [[Voice from the hall: She's ashamed.]] Mrs Małgorzata Navel from the PO-KO Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of an increase in the cost of energy generation, there are drastic increases in the prices affected by local governments, hospitals and railways. They directly concern people whose private accounts can also increase by up to 50%, because they are not only electricity consumers, but also consumers of goods and services whose prices are rising due to the cost increase caused by expensive energy, and indirectly by the burden on local governments, which after all spend public money. According to estimates, in less than 2 years we will have the highest in Poland in terms of Europe, prices and tariffs. For local governments, this means drastic increases in expenditure, e.g. for street lighting. In addition, cuts in current expenditure, increased investment expenditure costs and many other constraints, including measures to combat smog, will be a consequence. The scale of price increases in all areas causes this problem to have a strategic dimension for Poland. High prices of coal and carbon allowances are among the reasons for such a sharp rise in electricity prices. It is therefore important to shape the country's energy policy, defining the preferred energy sources and the conditions for their use. Whether the planned scrapping of wind power plants, moving away from the prosumer energy model and saying at the climate summit that Poland stands with coal, with the largest scale of imports of this raw material from Russia so far, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't that a bit of a psychic situation? Why are you lying to Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We all know that energy is more expensive throughout the European Union. We're not a lonely island that doesn't have a problem. Mr... [[No way, you noticed.]] Why don't you let me talk? Mr Gadowski calls on the Minister from the speaker to announce the price of energy from the Seym Speaker. Mr President, I think you went back to the time of the socialist economy when the price was set by the government. You're a member of the Energy Commission, and you're saying such nonsense. Mr... Minister! I have a question as to whether action to reduce national energy emissions will at the same time ensure the security and sustainability of electricity supply in the context of significant generation volatility from renewable sources. And one more question. It is said that even the current level of energy prices will not provide incentives to build new, stable energy sources. Should we therefore be concerned, in the long term, about the difficulty of providing sufficient generation capacity to cover national electricity demand? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u173	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska from the PO-KO club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 3 years of not thinking about the economy. 3 years of devastation of the Polish economy. 3 years of not thinking about energy policy. So, what, you guys woke up today? In St. You woke up to Santa Claus, and it was only this week that you prepared an energy policy for the next period, assessing spending on PLN 400 billion? Where are you going to get this 400 billion zloty? From the pockets of Poles. For three years, you've been thinking about how to find a job for Misiewicz. You didn't think about the Poles, and today you're going to take the money out of their pockets. And this is not a conversation about the fact that 2 billion and compensation for a normal citizen, for an individual consumer. There's no money for compensation for hospitals, for local governments, for care and medical facilities. We'll ask for this valuation. We'll ask you to tell us if they're going to use all the products in the stores. We'll ask you to say and admit that you've been asleep for three years. It's just an old bear sleeping hard. You have not renegotiated the energy package. You're talking about renegotiating. And for farmers, have you renegotiated anything? I tried to make that assessment in the Podkarpacie area. Minister, everyone's writing 60, 70, 80%. More for electricity. How are you gonna make it up to local governments, hospitals, businesses, so that young people who are gonna buy anything in the store, just a muffin, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Didn't they pay more for that regular bun? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u175	Thank you very much. Is Mr Piotr Pyzik here? There isn't. Mr Józef Lassota from the PO-KO club, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, you're a young man, but after all, you've graduated from primary school, and it seems like you should be able to read the word PO-KO. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u177	Mr President, as soon as I have the full name, I will read it, I promise. [[It's so clumsy, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u178	You know, this is embarrassing. You're pretending to be smart, but it's really embarrassing. Let's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u179	Mr President, would you like to continue with your statement, or will you continue to try to insult me? [[But you're trying to insult us.]] Come here, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If you'd like to come to my house or finish your speech. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the room: Are you not mistaken?]] [[Voice from the room: Interrogation?]] You're gonna... You're gonna... you're gonna... you're gonna... [[Voice from the room: Turn on the microphone so we know what you're talking about so people know.]] Proceed, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u180	Mr. Marshal warned me not to insult him with scheming. I'm sorry. On the other hand, I would like to ask Minister Tchórzewski to actually end this hypocrisy. With all the hypocrisy that stinks every step of the way. You're talking about government compensation. This compensation, even if it's for households, it's in services, in goods we'll all pay for it. And of course, this compensation is not government money, as it has been repeatedly presented, but it is taxpayers' money. The government can't afford a $100,000 bonus for that. zł. And he's gonna pull it out of taxes that he's gonna keep raising and making new ones. Minister, a little honor, really. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Antoni Mężyłko from the PO-KO club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski! You're a typical political minister. You became Minister of Energy for the first time as Deputy Minister of Economy in the First Government of Law and Justice, when Paweł Pontylius, your predecessor in this position, could not cope with social peace in Silesia. You handled it perfectly, but then you introduced an economic monopoly in energy, so-called. vertical consolidation in energy companies. Now you are back as Minister, because this problem, the problem of Silesia, the problem of a 6 million-dollar agglomeration is very important for the acquisition of electorate, but also for social peace. You're doing well, but you're hurting the economy because you introduced a technology monopoly this time. Everyone warned you that if we put only on coal, then - economics experts said so - energy prices will rise. And that's what we're dealing with. Then we ruled for two years because I was also in Law and Justice, and this pain, this economic grenade exploded in the whole society later, with delay, already under the rule of the Civic Platform. We dealt with it then, disarmed this grenade with a stock obligation. Today, you're trying to solve what you're at least declaring in your strategy, but you're also talking about this today, betting on renewable energy, but you're doing it wrong, because, as you're comparing it, you're clearly not familiar with it, and I'm ready to consult -- these 2.5 MW in renewable energy auctions to a stable source, to 1,000 megawatt coal power plants and to one gas power plant, I mean, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you don't know each other, because these are unstable sources, and today you have to bet on more stable, but RES, and you don't understand. Today, technological progress in some areas is that this can be compensated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u183	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we must conclude the speeches of Members, because we must stick to time. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would be glad if it were as you say that you are a fan of renewable energy sources, but all data, and NIK-owskie, and European, indicate that the amount of installed power from renewable energy in Poland after 2016 is falling, decreasing, i.e. reality is different. There's nothing here that can do to enchant reality. Furthermore, your energy policy by 2040, which contains certain provisions, confirms this point. The fate of wind energy is doomed there. So that the whispering of reality won't do any good. In fact, these solutions lead to the degradation of renewable energy, and at the same time, the idea and management of Polish energy is a promoter of Russian coal imported from Donbass and the Kuzbaski Bass. That's the truth. [[Applause]] It's not gonna work to enchant reality. Just as nothing is gonna happen, when it comes to the fact that someone signed packages in 2007, someone was in the reform of the ETS in March 2017. By chance, the same group of people ruined it then, as you say, because you expect improvement, it also broke in March 2017, because it didn't do what needs to be done. The Poles will pay for all this. This is the country you have given the Poles this fate. The Minister talks - and I am very pleased - about the next energy increases. I didn't do the gas. You're talking about 50%, etc. Minister, if you say so, then I will say more: What else awaits Poles? It's a power bill. You said four, there's not gonna be any more. After the auction results, everything points to at least 5.5 billion. Who's gonna pay for this? Poles again. So to the money I'm talking about, to those you've told us about, you have to add more money, in fact Poles have to pay for all this. You say you don't act like a boss because there are public companies. Thank God they're here. At least we know what's going on. I didn't say it, it was the president of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa who said that you were expecting more money from him, investment, also in the construction sector. And he said - rightly, I agree - that this is an act to the detriment of the company and the minority shareholder. And who did the same thing in 2016? Not energy companies? They did the same thing. So how bad was it in 2018, someone dared to say it and got scared of it all, was it good in 2016? It was wrong, too, to the detriment of the company and the minority shareholder. Minister! I'm going to refer to all these statements that there's been nothing done for eight years. Investments of more than 100 million have been launched. [[Voice from the room: 100 billion.]] 100 billion. I'm reading energy policy. In three years, you haven't built anything, not even 1 m3 of gas, you haven't started anything. Everything is delayed: and large blocks, and small, including the incinerator in Rzeszów, which was to be put into service on June 22nd, and then not finished. Everything you touch, you just ruin it. Speaking of the happiness that's supposed to bear these payments, you're saying that all the recipients will get compensation. It is in your speech that you guarantee all Poles, all households. Minister! You don't really do the Poles any favors. This money isn't yours, it's not yours, it's not your government, it's not yours, it's not yours. It is the money of all Poles. You're not St. Santa, even though it's December 6th, St. Santa Claus. It is the Poles themselves who will compensate for the increases you are giving them. There's just a question. If we are living in a market economy, there is no socialism here, as it seems, would we want it not to be there, then why spill it from one pot to another? We all know that even with careful spilling, something will always fail. Are these compensations supposed to be so that something happens again, that we all have to pay even more for this policy that you are proposing? You said on 4 December 2018: Compensation will cover households, as well as a large proportion of small and medium-sized companies to the extent that they participate in the service of people. Who's gonna decide who's gonna judge how we're gonna verify that? Today information appeared because there was a discussion, about an increase, about an increase in food prices by up to 20%. Today, representatives of the employers' union say that up to 40%. There will be a cumulation of events in 2019. You've been working your problems. Everything started pouring out. That money's just starting to run out of money. For all the ideas that are, for making up for it, for all the fanaber and ideas, someone has to pay. Who's gonna pay? The Poles will pay. To a large extent, energy companies have so far been paid, which have been treated as a proverbial cloth. If you didn't know where to get the money, it was coming. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to an energy company. Poles will pay because it's hard to live without energy. It's starting to run out. These CEOs are also scared and don't say that five's enough, they just say you have to pick up thirty pairs for individual households.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u185	Mr President, unfortunately, the time has run out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u186	And the entrepreneur how much? This is... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Within 10 minutes, it will be difficult for me to answer all the Members' questions. [[You should've done something for three years.]] In that case, I will try to refer to you and to your questions, and I will find them quickly. I'll start one at a time. The first question is that only the small ones will get compensation, etc. The shops, which was mentioned above, belong to small ones as well. Compensation will be granted to small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. those that actually employ up to 250 people. This is a very large part of our businesses. I would like to address the issue of earnings in companies, the earnings of executives on several occasions. Well, I would like to stress that the earnings in these major companies, because to them the biggest earnings always refer to, have been reduced to 1/3 in relation to how much was earned in your day. [[Applause]] Bonus presidents aren't getting it yet. Together with the bonus they do not receive, it is approx. PLN 1 million per year. In your day, it was over PLN 3 million a year, if ever. What were the prices then? [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Only companies were worth three times that.]] Companies are worth what they were worth because their assets are growing. If you're familiar with the stock market, look at the value-to-value ratio of the assets, the book price, see how the value of the assets of these companies grows and what it is. [[We're looking at capitalization.]] In the case of capitalisation, it may be the same as with emission rights. They cost 5 euros. What happened when they were traded on the stock exchanges when they were granted the law of securities on 3 January or 4 January? The speculators have entered and the right to issue is 20, 21. That's one way of saying it. What happens in the market then? You see what's happening in the market. So that from a point of view... [[You have to be able to control it.]] I refer to it from a proprietary point of view, because the owner wants the company to have the consequences of this policy that he wants to pursue. Therefore, I look - as far as I can - as to the interest of the State Treasury and the interests of citizens refers to the majority owner, and in some places the minority owner, who is co-owner of these enterprises through the State Treasury. For this reason, we are much more modest in terms of pay. I'm talking about the companies I'm supervising, because I know exactly what it's like here. Such treatment of this matter offends me because you cannot see what has changed clearly when it comes to dealing with these things. Now the RES. Mr Kasprzak said we stopped RES. [[Because you stopped.]] Look what the result is now. Here in many speeches, you say that the RES stood. We know what is the problem of energy prices in Germany, where energy prices are more than twice as high as ours, because last year's €25 billion is paid by the Germans to RES. And now the RES are cheap. Is it worth taking over? That's what a resourceful politician is. We're gonna build RES now that it's cheap. And there you go, I said earlier, answering the previous question, that 2,500. MW this year is auction on RES. We're going towards RES, that's what's in our energy policy. In the case of RES, we will do it in accordance with the requirements of the European Union. We didn't have to get ahead of ourselves and get ahead of ourselves. At the moment, with regard to prices for citizens, your carelessness, lack of supervision of the entire RES expansion system has resulted in the conversion of RES subsidies into electricity costs. And for what? It was easy and good to supervise, to watch it happen, to do it, to approach it in economic terms. I am trying on behalf of the Treasury to be the host and it is clearly visible. [[These efforts are not working out, as you can see.]] We're starting to build. You say it's cheap. And the point is to do it when it pays off. The next question, Mr Majka's question, concerns the share of wages and so on. I would like to stress that despite everything, although you say it looks bad, on the minimum salary of the Pole there are at the moment fourteen bills for electricity, and in your time there were twelve. And where did that energy go? There are fourteen electricity bills on the minimum salary of the Pole, once again, in 2018. [[So you're lowering prices.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: So this discussion is unnecessary.]] We ask if it really is more expensive for a Pole. You listen to what I'm talking about. There were 12 electricity bills in your government. Even though it's expensive, what...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u189	Excuse me, Minister, one comment. Dear Members of the PO-KO Club! If you expect respect, please also respect the minister who is trying to answer your questions. [[Voice from the Chamber: You are not to watch the Members.]] Minister! Please do not enter into discussions with Members, but simply refer to questions. I think it'll be easier for all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u190	Because my fellow Members are asking me additional questions. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u191	Excuse me, do any of you have any doubts? All rise. No, don't be scared. Get up and tell me what you want to say. [[Voice from the room: If you get up, so will we.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u192	There is also an important question that needs to be answered, because time is shrinking, whether a notification is needed. A notification is needed to compensate citizens. This is not what the European Commission requires. Compensation for medium-sized and small enterprises falls within the scope of State aid compensation. Come on, if we answer any more questions about who it's gonna touch, I wonder what's most important. [[Compensation for local governments.]] Compensation for local governments. Dear Member, I reply immediately to highlight this too. Well, when it comes to self-governments, we have a situation of this kind that is not so bad with self-governments. For 2018, the increase in local government's own income over the planned period will be around 10%. So this is what it looks like in our politics when it comes to taking care of society and self-government. Local government's own income increased by 10% this year , and all indications are that next year it will exceed this level, this increase in local government's own income will amount to over 12%. So there's no tragedy in local governments either. On the other hand, once again I want to emphasize - I said this in the... [[But there's a tragedy in hospitals.]] ...to the extent that it is possible for corporate governance to do so and to the extent that, through its representatives in the Supervisory Board, the owner or co-owner of the public limited liability company on the stock exchange can do so. To this extent, we will try to introduce extraordinary austerity programmes and move in such a direction that next year we will change tariffs again by reducing them. Here we would also like to bet on reducing the profitability of these companies from the point of view of the size of the profit. We also want to reduce costs that can be minimized, which can be reduced. So this is where we're gonna be... [[What are you going to do with energy policy?]] ...in this direction. Next, I would like to address questions about the impact of climate policy on current electricity prices. Poland's energy policy is of a long-term nature, so its effects will be visible only in the long term. The implementation of nuclear energy, at which the costs of climate policy are not borne, should have a positive impact on the shape of our mix and on future electricity prices. The use of RES shall not be subject to the costs of climate policy. The level of their use will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] it has increased, but we must have the capacity to ensure the stability of energy generation. This is extremely important. There have been many criticisms here because we leave coal power behind. I would also like to stress on the issue of coal imports that coal consumption in energy is about 30 million tons, including about 1.8 million tons of coal from imports. The remaining imports are either imports for the population or imports for local governments. I'd like to draw a line on that, too. If we're talking about energy and import, then we shouldn't tie one to the other. If... [[So we're talking about a deal with Russia.]] ...it's about Donbas, it's coal from Donbass - that you should know - it's not fit for energy. And you have to remember. the fact that Russia has counted Donbas to Russia, while Donbas within the European Commission is treated as Ukraine and coal from that area, for example. there is no import blockade on the part of the European Union. For this reason, it must also be borne in mind that here, as once the European Commission did not lean on it properly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u193	Thank you, Minister. Minister, I understand that you will answer the rest of the questions in writing, yes? Because here one Member asked for an answer to the question about local governments, because he did not hear the answer. [[But that and more questions unanswered. You didn't answer most of the questions.]] [[I answered the questions about local governments.]] We count very much, Minister, to reply in writing. Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The increase in electricity is already a lottery, betting, if the price of energy increases - by 15%, 40%, 70% Or more. The deeper the opposition to our government, the higher the energy increase. Example: The representative of the Mazowieckie Railways says that the price for this company will probably increase by 70%. There's no real data. He's just lying. He's making it up. I have a question, Minister. Is it in the plan of our government to build hydropower plants, because apart from pure energy we then have increased water supply, which in Poland is very little, which we notice especially when there is drought?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! President Rzeszów sent a letter to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on the Monopolistic Practices of PGE and took action to protect the local government against the unfair practices of state-owned companies, which are supposed to carry out a public mission. These aren't private businesses. In this letter President Rzeszów claims that the proposed price for electricity for the local government is 67.95% higher in relation to the current price. I therefore ask the Minister of Energy to clarify whether the claim for the monopolistic operation of PGE is justified. How much will the energy prices actually increase for local authorities, including for the local government of Rzeszów for 2019?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u196	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 49 hours 12 min 56]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018 (Prints No 3054 and 3079). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission considered a government bill amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, print No 3054. Six amendments have been tabled to this project, which have been discussed in detail. And yes. Two amendments were orderly and editorial and related to Article. 1 of the draft law and the articles added therein. 29c and Art. 29d. Another amendment concerned a one-off payment from the State's pension fund to PLN 1 billion. The next amendment was related to securing additional funds of the Demographic Reserve Fund up to PLN 2 billion in the form of a contribution from the state budget. This is related to the modified principle of percentage valorisation, with the guaranteed minimum increase in pension benefits at the level of PLN 70 as a rule. Another amendment concerned the article. 38d, which was the consequence of the introduction of the provisions of Article. 29g and 29h. The last amendment concerned Article. 29f and was involved in the transfer of expenditure up to PLN 12 million from Part 29: National Defence to Part 57: National Security Agency for the implementation of expenditure resulting from the programme of extra-military defence preparations of the Republic. These amendments were discussed in very detail, Mr Robaczyński gave detailed explanations and the amendments were accepted in the vote. The entire draft of this law has also been adopted. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this important project, which is important for the areas and the economic and social sectors of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u198	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor. Unless you've already exhausted...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on this bill. This proposal is discussed every year in plenary, in committees. There is a general principle that the end of the year results in certain measures which have not been used for various reasons, and it is the responsibility of the Polish Parliament to direct these measures rationally to those areas that need support. In the case of these changes, we supported the health care service, we supported companies we want them to be under the care of the State Treasury in their entirety. All other areas listed in this project are important. Despite the differences between different clubs, our club, the Law and Justice Club, supported these proposals and we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u200	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur, Mr Noblet, presented his subjective assessment of whether all the questions were answered in the Committee on Public Finance. I'd like to say no. Starting with what the debate looked like yesterday - it's not the savings at all. But you have admitted that savings will come from delays in fulfilling your tasks. It has not been explained which tasks have been delayed. It has not been explained to the members of the committee who, as directors of the budget parts, i.e. the money managers, did not spend this money, to what extent and for what reasons. And now our reservations, which were raised yesterday from this speaker, the doubts have not been resolved and I raise them today. The case includes: PLN 1.8 billion for the National Health Fund. There's no information available. It was said, "There will be no algorithm, the minister will divide freely." True, the directions indicated that it would be ophthalmology, that it would be endoproteses, but it was not said where, how, what money they would hit, and hospitals are in debt. The question of reprivatising the Reprivatisation Fund with PLN 2 billion has not yet been clarified. As regards PKP PLK, the amount of shares in this company will not be shown. It has not been shown - because here the President did not allow the Minister of Agriculture to answer - whether the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is prepared for payment of PLN 715 million in connection with, among others. with drought. We did not receive any information, also regarding other questions. And for this reason - just as yesterday we applied to reject this project at first reading - a number of tricks were used in this project. We're talking about local roads. What an additional advantage it is that the state is increasing to PLN 1.1 billion this year so that they are accounted for, but you will only spend them in 2019 and reduce the envelope for 2019 to PLN 500 million? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the height that the PiS state has planned in their local road construction project, which means you are only now adding to this hill. We are talking about the amendments that are included in this project. As for this PLN 11 billion - the state on the last day of PLN 11 billion you have and they will not be used until next year, because that is the principle. We will not reduce the deficit, we will not reduce the debt by PLN 11 billion, but we will be able to, because it will certainly be, distribute it for different purposes and tell how beautiful we are. And the state failed because there were delays, and yesterday the minister did not say what individual ministers would be punished. You are proposing an additional PLN 3 billion for the Pomeranian Pension Fund and the Demographic Reserve Fund - in one night or in a few hours 3 billion appeared, there were amendments, unprepared - and 12 million for the ABW. Okay, I'm sure with the budget, it's small money. But the scandal, the great scandal is that the State of Law and Justice has made such an amendment that changes, for example. the financial plan of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture will not require the opinion of the Sejm Committee on Budgets. What you're doing... After all, Parliament is to control these institutions. It's a constitutional law. The state in such a small amendment says: You have no information. The Minister of Health will not provide any information as to how he will divide this money until about half of next year... So 10 billion PLN - from delays in the execution of tasks, without any blockage. Mr. Minister was trying a little bit to say that about 4 and 5 billion would come from subsidies to the Social Security Office, but other dispatchers... Minister, I asked you to put the coffee on the bench so I could get the papers here and respond. If we want to talk about this honestly, this project was prepared outrageously in one day. What's been going on for months if we're monitoring the use [[♪ The bell ♪]] budget... We will continue to reject this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Nothing's really changed since yesterday. There was a discussion in the Parliament hall, there was a discussion in the committee, amendments were made. It is difficult not to agree that, if there are measures, it is probably necessary to direct them to places where they are needed, but unfortunately, when it comes to these most important problems, that is, concerning what certain measures are intended to address, this has not been clarified. There are these two points, the points. One speaks of this de facto support, because that's what you have to call an attempt to nationalise the nationalized, in other words, raise capital in Polish Railway Lines for this - at least that's what it says in the justification - to be 100% State property, even though it is already state property. But nothing. Anyway, we raise the capital to raise it. I understand that this is support for PKP PLK. But some things have to be called by name, and some things have to be done according to the law. The fact that it's doing something right, but in a way that doesn't comply with procedures, means that it's not good anymore, but it's bad. Failure to follow procedures leads to perversions, mistakes, and sometimes even crime. Therefore, this cannot be supported. The second thing is truly scandalous, namely the Reprivatisation Fund, which is to be used for unknown purposes, for unclear purposes. Here as a finance committee we probably have little to say, so in some sense I understand the bureau of the finance committee. But I think the applicant has it here. Either that or the one behind the claws. He shouldn't have submitted such projects without explaining to the finance committee at least what the money is going for. I understand that the government, this particular government needs money, because Prime Minister Morawiecki promises everywhere, scatters, believes very much in his creative power to multiply money. But - I emphasize - creative power usually ends where the reality of life begins. So if there's extra money, that's cool, but we want to know what they're going to do. Because messing with the Reprivatization Fund is very dangerous. These funds are intended to be used to satisfy the claims of the persons to whom the property has been taken. I therefore make a proposal: if it is planned to take someone's property, then we want to know who we want to take something as a country, for how much and why. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome our guests who are listening to this debate, which is very important, because about how 8 billion will be spent out of taxpayers' pockets, which is also out of your pocket. [[Eleven.]] Not even 11 billion. Our debate is followed by students and teachers from Lisewa and Wrocek from primary school. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] Please, now Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we are debating is another project that does not uphold the principles of correct legislation. This is all the more reprehensible because it concerns issues that are very important for the state's finances. The pace of work imposed by the rulers does not give any opportunity to analyse the proposals contained in the project. After 2 days of the project in the Sejm we are already after first reading, voting and considering at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Unfortunately, neither the debate in the Sejm nor the discussion in the committee meeting have answered the questions asked by Members on behalf of all opposition clubs. The enigmatic, imprecise and evasive responses from the government did not clearly explain where the funds intended to re-distribute them came from. We still do not know which tasks of this year's budget will not be carried out, where and who has been blocked in the last month of the financial year. The work in committee and the amendments tabled by law and justice result in an increase of PLN 3 billion in funds to be distributed, so the amount of funds to be redirected is currently almost PLN 11 billion. If it were not for the fact that these appropriations would be redirected to tasks not necessarily needed, we would reduce the deficit of the state budget at the end of the year, and this would indeed be the most rational action. The proposed funding does not raise any objections may only transfer appropriations of 715 500 000. for aid to farmers affected by drought or floods, as in this case the delay of the Minister's action and the delays in payments cannot deprive farmers of the aid they deserve. Similarly, we may consider it appropriate to regulate expenditure related to subsidies for reduced travel by public transport to holders of the Large Family Charter in the amount of PLN 21 million. There are great doubts about the transfer of funds of PLN 1800 million to the stock fund in the National Health Fund. It is clear that the directing of health measures is most appropriate, because the needs in this area are also very high. Our opposition is due to the application of the rules for the distribution of these funds without an algorithm, because this means, I suppose, that the allocation of funds will be implemented in accordance with the announcements of government representatives in the election campaign, i.e. simply discretionaryly, only among their own. In the context of the climate summit held in Katowice and this ambiguous position currently governing coal mining, it is not justified to direct the next funds to Upper Silesia, this time PLN 150 million, and this is another pool of funds for this purpose. There is also no reasonableness in directing funds to the Reprivatisation Fund in a large amount, because 2100 million, as well as the amount of 1800 million to the holding by the State Treasury of shares in PKP PLK. The Committee on Public Finance was also excluded from the work on the amendments and was eliminated from the evaluation phase. Therefore, taking into account both the procedure for proceding the project in question and the ambiguous indication of the origin of the funds from the tasks not carried out and blocked and the irrational use of them, the Polish People's Party Association - the European Union of Democrats will vote against the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska is not here. Therefore, we move on to questions. If any of you want to sign up again, I encourage you. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska is the first, Peo Kao, in short, PO-KO. [[It's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat my questions to the Minister, which unfortunately were not answered, even though the rapporteur said that they were given. What are the objectives of the Reprivatisation Fund? This is about the 2 billion PLN, 2100 million. For what purpose will you use it? How will the participation in PKP PLK Spółka Akcyjna take place and what effect will this achieve? I also asked about this division, about the algorithm, and today we don't know what it's gonna look like. With regard to the National Health Fund, I wanted to ask you about a small but important matter for the health environment. The year 2018 is the year of strikes by resident doctors, nurses' strikes and support for these environments, consent, i.e. additional money for these workers. But there was also a case of diagnostic protests. It is a small group of people. The minister promised them, they talked to their directors in hospitals. However, I believe that if you decide, if today we decide to allocate an additional PLN 1800 million, then the issue of diagnostics should find an organisational decision, also developed by the Minister and the National Health Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u209	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask Mr Długi, who is a lawyer, so I always count on his opinion where he sees these criminal actions because it shocked me. After all, it is not the case that the use of more money for healthcare, for healthcare, for travel for large families, for drought and even for PKP, which you also do not digest, for the funding of local roads... Mr President, do you know a government that doesn't need money? I don't think so. I think every government needs money. We approach the budget differently, we approach it from a social, family, developmental point of view. We believe that money in the budget is not just for the budget itself. It's not art for art. We need to transfer this money to Poles. We note that there is a better financial situation. At the end of this year there will be sensational positive results, which is why there are these changes. The funds are transferred to objectives, which have been underfunded for years, neglected. We would be happy to add another 11 billion and allocate them to Polish families, to repair the Polish health care system. It's not there yet, but I think there'll be another possibility in a few years, because it's not a government whim, it's important to improve the social situation of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u210	Thank you, sir. Mr Długi is not an applicant or representative of the government here, but he has decided to ask Mr Długi a question. [[I'll answer it.]] Mr Długi will have the floor soon. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a lot of excitement about this project. This is because not all committee members were at yesterday's meeting and could not hear the detailed reasons for the particular changes made to this project. There's a lot of excitement about art. 29d, because this project will enable the State Treasury to acquire shares of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA and to transfer in 2018 funds from the budget under the special reserve, sir, the special reserve, not from the Reprivatization Fund, to take up shares of PKP PLK, which will improve the ownership structure, where the Treasury consistently strives to cover 100% the national infrastructure manager's shares. And I think that you as a Pole should be proud of this, that the state owns a strategic company, because in previous years Polish Cableways were sold to Slovaks. [[How much are they gonna buy for now?]] And that's us. That's what we bought back because... [[How much?]] ...we've been doing great for a dozen... [[How much?]] Member of the Commission, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Calm down. [[But how much?]] That's why I'm asking the Minister, is this way of spending money legal? [[Applause]] [[How much did you buy? The Minister's not answering. The minister isn't responsible for what he paid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u212	Thank you very much. [[How much more?]] Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! A moment ago, Mr PiS said that the results of the budget would be sensational - he used this exact wording: a sensational budget. I would like to ask the Minister what is the expected result of the 2018 budget? Minister, focus. [[It's not the project.]] I'm sorry. I would like to ask the Minister what the projected result of the state budget for 2018 is, because the 14 countries of the European Union have a budget surplus, and the changes that you are proposing in this around budget law, let's say, are changing overnight in such a way that spending is increasing by several billion. Two amendments in total of PLN 3 billion were tabled yesterday at the meeting of the finance committee in respect of expenditure from the state budget. My question is this: What would be the functioning of the Post-Mountain Pension Fund if it hadn't been given 1 billion PLN this year? Second question: How would the increased pensions for Poles be paid out if the Demography Reserve Fund had not been increased by 2 billion? Answer me that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u215	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I am glad that we are discussing right now, because that is why we are here in this Chamber to discuss, but we do not necessarily have to argue, and that is what I am saying right now and to the President, and to the President, who I see are in the middle of a heated discussion. Come on up here in the bleacher. Hello! Hello! Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we're discussing, we're arguing outside the room. That is why I would like to draw your attention, because firstly, Mr President, the question was not for you, but for the applicants who did not answer. It was the same at the committee meeting, there was no response to what the money was supposed to go to to strengthen the Reprivatisation Fund. That's the main problem with this bill. The second problem is that we don't really want to know... because I don't really know what Polish Railways have in common with Polish Railways, which we have to strengthen financially. And please note that this is probably 87% direct ownership of the State Treasury and 13% has PKP SA, which is a single-member company of the Treasury. So it's already nationalized. So we're not buying anything, it's planned, at least that's what it says, raising capital, and that's what the money's going to go for. It's just how it's gonna get to 100%. ownership of the Treasury, I don't know, because it already is. [[Creative accounting.]] And it's just... Looks like some kind of accountant procedure. And I'd like to know why. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't mind strengthening these companies if there are investment needs, but let's do it in a normal way, and first of all let's answer the question of what money is supposed to go about the Reprivatization Fund, because that's what I'm most interested in. And because there are such points...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u217	...we have trouble supporting this bill where there are things we like. We want more money for farmers...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u218	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u219	...we want more money for health and so on, but give us a chance to support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u220	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday at the agricultural committee meeting we received information, confirmation that there is no money in the budget for: payment of advances on direct payments of 70% , to fund bioinsurance as far as ASF disease is concerned, an epidemic. The threat, the lack of resources for aid to farmers and other companies in connection with the drought disaster. It's a tragedy that never happened in our country's history. [[Applause]] The farmers were promised by your minister that they would receive money by the end of this year for what I said. Drought so drained her pockets that she couldn't fit in her head. Farmers, I would say, are losing liquidity, invoices are full, and money is gone. In which section of the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, print No 3054 is the item that will allow farmers and other entities to pay for drought in this amount? I would like to say that I have limited confidence in Prime Minister Morawiecki, because in the previous debate, two debates back, he said that there would be money for damages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for animals in the field, on farms, and with around budget laws he took off these positions without telling anyone. I wonder what it's like this year. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would now ask you to speak with the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A number of questions arose concerning the use of increased funds for the Reprivatisation Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Prime Minister's office, I would like to say one thing: these measures, increased in a significant way, will, of course, be used to achieve the key objectives of the sustainable development strategy, to support Polish entrepreneurs. I would just like to remind you that the Reprivatisation Fund operates on the basis of a financial plan, and any change to this plan is subject to legal treatment with the participation of the institutions of the High House, including the Committee on Public Finance. Nothing will happen secretly, nothing will happen in secret, this money will be allocated to the public and under the control of the High House. I also wanted to answer Mr Długo's question. I have the impression that you have not read the justification for the bill and not the Commercialisation Act, because according to this law the funds of the Reprivatisation Fund may be used to include shares in companies in which the State Treasury has a dominant share and to grant loans, i.e. not only for reprivatisation damages. Ladies and gentlemen, Marshal, High Izbo, please accept these explanations. [[Applause]] [[What about me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u224	I must refer to what the Minister said, in the interest of Poles' money and the quality of the debate. The High House still doesn't know what 2100 million out of taxpayers' pockets will be spent on. [[Mr. Marshal, since I...]] In the procedure of correcting Mr Grzegorz Długi.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u225	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! All the time, I feel like we don't really understand each other. That's not what I asked. I'm guessing that these funds can be used for this, but the problem is what they're meant to be for. You can't nationalize something... because you yourself said you weren't planning on buying the shares that PKP S.A. owns. So we raise capital. It's impossible to reach 100%. that the Treasury will directly have 100% , by just raising the capital, because all the time... [[It's even bigger...]] ...it will decrease, it will dissolve what PKP SA has in this company, but we will never completely eliminate it. Then I'd like to know what's going on, because I don't know. That's one thing. Secondly, we are still begging you because I do not want to use harsh words, to tell you what this money from the Revatization Fund is about to go to. I don't think it's that hard. Saying that this is going to help Polish entrepreneurs is deeply unclear to me, because this money should not be [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's meant to be, but for something completely different. Then we ask for an easy, simple answer. What's our money gonna go for? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u226	Thank you very much. Are you Minister Szrot... Minister Szrot won't mind referring. Please, Mr. Andrzej Bittel, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will repeat what I said yesterday: please do not combine the recapitalisation of the Polish Railway Line PKP with the Reprivatization Fund. The recapitalisation will be carried out on the basis of the acquisition by the State Treasury of shares issued by PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe pursuant to the agreement. The Treasury will therefore receive almost 70% shares and PKP will have 30% action. We aim to ensure that the State Treasury's participation in this company is as high as possible due to its systemic position, which also results from EU directives (independent infrastructure manager). This is the first thing and this is, I think, the answer to a few questions in this area. I am also amazed that you do not know this mechanism, because this mechanism was assessed by the Committee on Public Finance on 15 October, so I do not know why. The recapitalisation money will go to rail investments. At the moment we have opened tenders for port handling, the amounts in these tenders are higher than the estimates made on the basis of... Yesterday we discussed this in the Committee on Infrastructure, it was a sideline on another topic. [[There's a $1.5 billion missing.]] Yes, and therefore we are implementing a national railway programme, port handling, and on this occasion we are strengthening the company and seeking to increase the share of the State Treasury in its ownership of the resulting... [[And is there anyone else outside the Treasury? Is there anyone else? There's no one else.]] I just read what the shareholder would be like to be clear. Which doesn't change the form of things - PKP owns the carrier, or even two, because PKP owns... [[But we're talking about PKP PKL?]] ... PKP Intercity... [[Voice from the room: No, PKP PLK.]] ...and PKP SKM. [[Yeah, PKP PLK, I'm sorry.]] We're not talking about PKL, we're talking about PLK. We are talking about PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe. [[Yes, sir.]] Infrastructure manager, which under EU directives and legislation... [[And who besides the Treasury owns PKP SA?]] [[But, sir, don't disturb me.]] Nobody. [[Nobody, that's right. Then why change?]] No one, and that's the point, sir. That's what it's all about. That's what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, I can't find an understanding. I believe, Mr. Marshal, that I have given an answer in my capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u228	Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u229	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will only answer Mrs Skowronska's question very briefly. I would like to draw attention to what I said yesterday: the allocation algorithm relates to the National Health Fund's financial plan, it does not concern a part of the reserve fund, but I will repeat what I said yesterday when it comes to really decisions on what specifically, to which regions, to which needs the reserve fund can be allocated, which is triggered by the decision of the President of the National Health Fund, today it is too early to decide. We need to close 2018, we need to settle the failures, we need to settle overperformances, and then we really need to face the needs that will come from what we talked about yesterday, mainly the desire to shorten the queues, strengthen the AOS, eliminate queues when it comes to cataracts, endoprotesoplastics. We already talked about this last night. These are the needs. But when it comes to saying today exactly how much will be for cataracts, cost-intensive research, etc., it is too early for that. [[I asked about the diagnostics.]] Diaphragm - the second theme. The conversations with the diagnostics are really ongoing and they haven't ended yet, so I hope that when we're done with them, I'll be able to answer how it ends. Thank you. [[I'm gonna ask you to answer that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u230	Thank you very much. Now I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question has been raised here many times, and Mrs Skowronska has also asked them, yes, and in yesterday's debate, and in committee. It seemed to me that I, however, had quite a clear answer to this question, where these measures came from. These measures are based on blockades, mainly due to blockades resulting from good labour market conditions and therefore increased contributions to the Social Security Office and thus smaller payments from the state budget to the Social Security Office. And this is almost PLN 6 billion. The same thing happens in KRUS. In addition, I talked about the overpaid contribution to the European Union last year, which also enabled us to block funds in the state budget for this year's contribution. I also explained that the amount of PLN 1 billion was blocked in terms of debt handling due to the steadily decreasing debt of the State Treasury. And these are all the items that make up these sources. In addition, there are still blockages in particular parts of the budget, but they are already really very small. I mean, the main roadblocks. are actually in the units referred to in Article. Article 139 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Laws on public finances, i.e. in those entities which report their own budget and retain a certain degree of distinction in relation to government management of the budget, i.e. courts and tribunals. This is not really due to delays in the implementation of the investment. What is included in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, which indicates that the measures can be blocked due to delays in the implementation of the investment and the surplus of the funds held, is simply excluded from the Act. First of all, it is about the surplus of resources available to individual managers, in particular those whom I have been talking about, due to the good economic situation, the good situation on the labour market. Therefore, we do not see such expenditure as would be blocked, which would in turn threaten not to make any particularly important investments. These savings in the various parts of the budget, as I said, are mainly due to savings in courts and tribunals, but also to savings that were in the hands of the directors, these are really natural savings that always appear every year in the budget of the State and arise from very different reasons, not necessarily for not making investments. They result from different prices during the year and in the various services, etc., etc. And that's the kind of natural savings that appear in the budget. With almost 400 billion budgets, it is clear that such savings or such small amounts will appear in individual contributors. As regards this amendment, which was tabled on the elimination or failure to take into account the Committee on Public Finance when assessing the changes in the financial plans resulting from this law, this is not exactly a parliamentary amendment. I mean, the parliamentary amendment was clear, but it was also in the government proposal, and that's because the law is being proceded in the Committee on Public Finances, and in fact the time to implement it after Parliament's possible adoption will be the last days of the year. Therefore, there is no point in prolonging the same debate for the next days in fact, because this would not really allow the implementation of the principles of this law. In fact, this law points to everything that these funds are meant to be, so the discussion in the committee on the payment of these funds or the changes in finance would de facto go down to the same thing. For this reason, we have proposed to do so once and not unnecessarily involve Parliament in another discussion on the same. [[You should have included the plan.]] But that is also what I said that, as far as the plan is concerned, there are no changes in the plans for these blockades and the implementation of the state budget. I mean, the plans are just being executed or not being executed. The implementation of the plan will be visible in the implementation of the State budget and in the implementation of the individual financial plans. And if we wanted to adapt the plan, whether it's the budget, or the individual units to implement it, we would really have to do it every day, because every day this plan or the forecasts of the implementation of this plan change. So... [[That's not true.]] ...in fact, in this case, we do not change the plans. This will actually come out in a report on the implementation of the state budget. As far as FEP and FRD are concerned, payments from FEP are systematically and jumping. The situation is that we're still in the middle of this blockage process, which appears at the end of the year. Since these payments from the FEP or subsidies from the state budget are increasing rapidly, we would like to smooth out some of these payments from the state budget over the years and to transfer more resources to the FEP in view of the better economic situation, so as to be prepared for different market movements or needs related to the payment of benefits, while at the same time ensuring that payments from the state budget do not increase in such a way, jumpingly, only that the fund has these funds for the future. The same applies to the Demographic Reserve Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u232	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Andrzej Nobletta.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High House! Gentlemen of Ministers! We've been working on this project for hours. It caused a little too much emotion, a lot of suspicion, too, completely unnecessary, because we should be glad that there is money, that the economic and financial situation is improving. I had the honour to be in Washington this spring at a large conference and to hear from the Polish director of part of the European International Monetary Fund that Poland had resigned from a special credit line due to the good economy, for good financial results. And the result of these good financial results are these changes, Mr President. Let us rejoice if there is a basis for this. As regards these greatest doubts, they concerned point 1 of Article. 29c. This provision provides for the possibility of allocating up to PLN 2.1 billion from the State budget to the Reprivatisation Fund. This is already a different fund than many years back, as the Act of 16 December 2016 introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property introduced in the Act on Commercialisation and Privatization - currently it is the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Rights of Workers - possibility, among others. the implementation of the Fund for Reprivatisation of Investment Goals - by law it is possible, i.e. other purposes than before - for public companies or capital companies in respect of which a public company is a parent undertaking, within the meaning of Article. 4 point 3 of the Act of 16 February 2007 on the protection of competition and consumers and the purposes of lending to companies with the participation of the State Treasury or a public legal person in which more than half of the shares or shares belong to the Treasury or other public legal entities and to entrepreneurs in respect of which the persons referred to above are dominant undertakings within the meaning of the Act of 16 February 2007. the measures are intended to allow investment projects to be implemented, as an additional mechanism of active... [[Which bank will be bought?]] ...impact on the economy. This really is a very noble and useful goal, so with a clear conscience, Madam President and Mr President... [[Which bank will be bought?]] ...let's vote for this good project. We spent hours on this, the ministers were available, they answered dozens of questions... [[That's not true, that's not true.]] ...and I think the project has been discussed transparently. Once again, I recommend it to the High House, also to the opposition country, which you have the right to have doubts. But I think it's all been cleared up, so let's be... [[I didn't get an answer.]] ... really agree here and let's accept this good budget change proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u235	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister, I still hear from various Vice-Ministers and Ministers, how excellent, the situation of our country's budget is good. If that's the case, you should be happy. It's obvious. Then why aren't you paying farmers compensation for failure? I'm talking about the drought. Why are you feeding on these people's drama? This farmer is not interested in the reasons why the chapters will be devoted to it. [[Voice from the room: Three times as many.]] PLN 2 billion is spent on reprivatisation, for investment purposes. Okay, glory! But you mustn't give money to people who have experienced drama. If I asked you a question about which department, I'd ask for an answer. If this is not in these around budget laws, it may be in others, but please answer this question, because for the village it is a very important issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Farmers are losing their liquidity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u236	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u237	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u238	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk will answer the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We've paid 1.5 billion in two tranches. [[Voice from the room: No money.]] We paid it off, it's gone, so we've been trying to get another... [[Applause]] ...and we'll get thanks... The High House, which will probably vote... [[60%.]] ...715.5 million and we'll pay 100%... [[It won't be again.]] ...and there won't be again, of course, and we'll pay it out in the first quarter of next year, because that's what the bill says. According to the law, by March 31st, we have to pay and pay, because this money will be there. [[The minister said he'd be paid by the end of this year.]] What was in the agency's accounts has been paid, will affect the next one and will also be paid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And the interest?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u240	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land (prints No 3061 and 3073). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee. [[You're changing that already? It's a new bill.]] [[They change each one at a time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the two joint committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy, I present a report on the meeting of the committee, the two joint committees that took place yesterday concerning the government draft law amending the law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land. Original printing is printing No 3061; the report is contained in print No 3073. Ladies and gentlemen, the joint committees are asking the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. The amendment is needed, in order to avoid certain interpretational doubts, and the law itself as an enduring problem of perpetual use is intended to help achieve the main national goal of building good, cheap apartments. I think that these amendments, this project that was discussed at two committees, meet the expectations of housing cooperatives, investors, interpreters and all those who want to cooperate in the area of faster building of housing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u242	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Law and Justice have the floor. Mrs Chmiel has arrived, and I conclude from the fact that Mr King is not here. Is Mr King here? [[I'm sorry, I was wrong.]] That's very kind of you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u243	I'm here, Mr. Marshal. I think our names are hard to mistake. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, Mr. Marshal, I would like to present a position on print 3061. I would also like to inform you that the club has authorized me to hand over to the Marshal the amendment to this project, which I am hereby doing. I would like to say briefly that this amendment, which I have tabled to the Marshal, concerns the clarification of the form of public aid. Now, briefly, I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land, print No. 3061. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The solutions provided for in the project are part of the implementation of the scheme's assumptions. The aim of the programme is among others. supporting and developing housing for rentals for people who cannot afford to acquire housing. Apartments for rent will in many cases be built on land that is permanently used, but by the time the rights to premises are transferred to the tenants, the investor will be the beneficiary of the conversion. In view of the systemic nature assumed by the legislator of the conversion of the rights on residential land, the beneficiaries of the conversion as of 1 January 2019 in accordance with the Act adopted on 20 July 2018 on the conversion of perpetual land to residential property will become permanent users of land built with single-family and multi-family buildings, and therefore not only natural persons who own single-family homes and multi-family homes, but also, what is worth emphasising, such as housing cooperatives, State Treasury companies and entrepreneurs. The statistical period during which all premises in multi-room buildings are sold in new investments is about 3 years after the building was put into service. In addition, the sales processes of housing in existing housing cooperatives or companies of the State Treasury are planned and follow successive developments, so both those entities and investors building housing for sale are ultimately not beneficiaries of the land ownership right. On the other hand, the financial obligations resulting from the transformation may constitute an excessive burden on cooperatives, companies and traders, in particular where they manage a large part of the land or are the owners of a significant part of the real estate shares. In such cases, potentially, in addition to the conversion fee, they may be obliged as traders to pay the market value of the land in so far as they exceed the limit of de minimis aid. The proposed changes are intended to balance the interests of perpetual business users with those of the State's housing policy and state aid rules. By taking into account the changing conditions associated with the disposal of premises in multi-site buildings, both existing and ongoing, the project is also part of the idea of supporting the development of entrepreneurship. The changes proposed in the project will enable housing cooperatives, companies of the State Treasury and entrepreneurs to carry out housing investments without significant one-off financial obligations for the statutory conversion of perpetual land rights into housing. Given that there is information that large cities will not always be able to issue certificates of conversion efficiently, which could slow down the circulation of residential premises after 1 January 2019, the proposal proposes a solution in this respect. As some doubts were raised during the period of vacathio legis law by the authorities issuing certificates and fixing the conversion fee and the perpetual accounting courts as to the interpretation of certain provisions of the Act, it is appropriate to clarify some of them in order to ensure uniform application of the rules and to ensure efficient disclosure of the transformations in the perpetual books. I would like to inform the High House that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this project in further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u244	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present an opinion on the government's draft amendment to the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land. On July 20, this year, we passed this bill. It has not even entered into force since it is due to enter into force on 1 January 2019 and you are already updating it. It's another unfinished piece of shit. This was the case with the courts - seven amendments - National Property Resources, IPN. Soon you'll also be improving the so-called. The lex developer bill because your mess left you the opportunity to block it. In practically every session of the Sejm we have to correct something after you. It is good that you are repairing errors, especially in the law on the conversion of perpetual use, which we pointed out on 20 July, during the adoption of this original law, but working on this amendment is not serious, because within 2 days you want to accept it in the Sejm without consulting local authorities. Even the legislators two days ago, when working in the Infrastructure Committee, paid attention to a large number of amendments and the details of the bill were not worked out. This may result in further amendments. On the occasion of this amendment, the Civic Platform proposes once again to extend the vacathio legis of the original law, in order to enable local governments to update and adapt their perpetual usage fees to the current state. Not all local authorities have done this because it is a very time-consuming procedure. The next change that we propose in this revision is an extension of the deadline of up to 3 years, within which we can benefit from the 6% increase in the case of the State Treasury land, as we also sought in July. The introduction of these two amendments would be the basis for the law on consultation with the local government, which you did not do. This amendment also introduces the possibility to spread the conversion fee to entrepreneurs and housing cooperatives into more than 20 instalments, i.e. 33 instalments and 99 instalments. This is linked to possible overruns of the limit on de minimis aid for entrepreneurs, i.e. public aid, as the presidents asked us to do. We support this because it was not certain under which principles entrepreneurs and housing cooperatives will be able to dispose of the apartment and who will pay for the conversion of perpetual use into property. Indeed, without an amendment, the entire procedure for the sale of the apartment could be extended by even a few months, resulting in additional costs. It is useful to clarify the introduction of the obligation to enter in the perpetual books of all converted properties, as well as the entries in the perpetual books in case of separation of premises. It's about recording for each property separately. I wish you'd listened to the opposition six months ago. It would save Poles a lot of nerves, and we would work in a hurry. Despite the reservations I have put forward, the Civic Platform supports the amendment of the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into property rights of these land, because it is a change for Poles. We are in favour of eliminating perpetual use, just paying attention to not doing so in such a hurry and without consulting local authorities. And here's the two amendments I was talking about earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u246	Thank you very much. Now Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Membership! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to express my opinion on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land, prints No 3061 and 3073. As for the very idea of the Kukiz club15 are owned, we want this transformation, here we have no doubt, but the work itself, Minister, which 2 days ago we had the opportunity to lead, is such déjà vu as to what happened in July. In fact, there was no need for Members of the opposition in these committees. A good lawyer from the legislation office was enough to score it. In this current case today, with eight changes in two articles, it was really a dialogue between the state and the legislative office. Not messengers. Not really messengers. What does that mean? That the right idea is really spread by the ministry itself, not the opposition. Nobody wants to block and no one wants to interrupt, but it is the only main pain - prepare well legislative proposals so that as Members we do not have to be reddened, that the legislative office scores not only substantive but also editorial issues, issues that break canons of law-building art. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like, and we've been over it for the second time. For the first time in July, when we were sitting and rolling in the ministry, we discussed the pages marked in red, scored by the legislative office. Two days ago, we had exactly the same situation. This is reprehensible. There is a serious issue in which all clubs and Members are in favour, but it is reprehensible to prepare and process this project. The Kukiz Club15 will support it and we will be in favour of these changes, but I hope that the quality of the law will be improved and better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u249	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present a position on the governmental draft law on the amendment of the law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into property rights of these land, prints No 3061 and 3073. Mr. Marshal! Yes, our club, like the clubs of my previous speakers, is in favour of continuing to work on this project. We justified that. I emphasized this in the statements relating to the previous draft law that we are updating today and which did not enter into force in July. This is a deliberate, expected and needed action, but only remains a but - one, the other or even a third - but. I am very grateful and sympathetic to the Minister's work. It comes from self-government and puts a lot of commitment and heart into it. Surely, like everyone entrusted with the task, he would like it to be carried out and evaluated by his superiors and Members as best as possible. Nevertheless, I wonder, because it hasn't even been six months since the bill came into force, why it's already... [[She didn't come in. It's only gonna come in January 1st.]] She didn't come in. By the time it came into force, we're already updating it. On the other hand, we can say that if the bill were to enter into force and cause complications, then I do not know whether two wrongs - let us accept this popular saying - is not better that we have worked on it. Nevertheless, the issues that have already been identified by my previous speakers, the consultation of local governments... And again, with the next law, we are going back to the question of whether, on all matters where consultation is required, they were carried out with all parties and entities. Next thing: Is it because the law has not entered into force, someone would like to lean on the question of whether the local authorities have managed to carry out the tasks that rest on them, so that once the amendment has entered into force, these projects can be implemented without obstacles, and that we can feel that we have renewed, improved, but that it will be all right? Minister! This is what I wish for you and for us, and for all those who will be interested in these matters. Nevertheless, maybe we should try to lean on what it will look like in the courts and departments of the eternal books. We still have a moment. I give this to the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Circle of Modern Posel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u251	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I see Mr. Marshal welcomes the modern position. I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land after the presentation of the report of the printing commission No 3073. High Izbo! The bill submitted concerns, as the title itself states, the issue of converting the right to use perpetual land into the right of ownership of these land. For a long time, it has been reported that this change will take place. However, it must be made clear that this transformation has been possible for many, many years and, in principle, on the will of the residents, owners of these properties depended on whether they make such decisions or not. In many cases, they made such decisions. They have been implemented with more or less bureaucratic resistance, but it must be made clear that this is not a new institution. It has been functioning, functioning and being implemented so far. The amendments proposed in the draft concern the amendment of the Act which the High House adopted in July. Among the new proposals, there are provisions intended to serve, among others. As soon as possible, the disclosure of rights in the perpetual books. It has also been settled that the voivode will be a higher authority in cases where the beneficiary of the conversion of land owned by the State Treasury will question the decision of the competent authority in the decision setting the period of payment of the levy and the amount of the conversion fee, it is proposed to clarify certain provisions, to include new rules for the conversion payment and to regulate situations in which secondary immovable property subject to conversion will be traded. As I said, the bill contains a number of clarification provisions. I must say that this transformation is, of course, something that everyone can expect. Some of the co-operatives, some of the residents of these properties have tried to do so. I don't think there's any discussion here about whether it's necessary or not. There is a discussion of how this will be carried out, whether local governments will have enough time, whether all these activities that are being carried out are clearly described in the laws. I must say that there was a discussion already in July at the committee meeting. I remember: July, the headquarters of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development, the commission's exit meeting, the collision with the wall. The opposition. What does the opposition have? And here I want to make it clear that the opposition pointed out those records of the project, which are imprecise, which can cause confusion. She pointed out that some things might be running out of time. Both the government and the Law and Justice have surrounded themselves with a high wall, have completely isolated themselves from the arguments and have pushed this law through, even though there have been a number of comments from the Legislative Office, a number of comments from the public. No comment, no amendment, no good advice has been accepted. Today we have this effect. The High House receives a very wide range of changes. Of course, on the one hand. that's a good thing, because it has to be made clear that those provisions that clarify, those provisions that set clear and clear rules, those provisions that lay down rules that allow the possible, I would say, a gentle transition, are good. In a sense, however, we have a replay of entertainment in terms of a number of comments from the Legislative Bureau, which later had to be explained. That is why I have to say that of course it is good that there is a law passed that fixes it. On the other hand, the High House should be a law in such a way that there is no confusion so that there are clear and clear rules, which cannot be said of this law, which was passed by the majority in July. On behalf of the Modern, I declare my support for this project. I appeal to the Minister and to the majority, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to pay greater attention and humility to these arguments and arguments which fall on the part of the opposition and the social side during committee meetings and the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u252	Thank you very much. Three Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you why you do not want to accept the amendments that I tabled again on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. One extends the vacathio legis by six months, so that municipalities can prepare for this and even up the perpetual usage fees for about all areas of different properties within their borders. There is a situation, and you know that some have a revised fee and others don't. Therefore, after the entry into force of this law, there will be major problems. The second amendment refers to helping Poles and extending this period for 60% of the State Treasury land to 3 years. Not everyone will be able to learn how to conduct a procedure so that they can do it in the first year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please accept this amendment. Question: "Why do you not want to accept this?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u254	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Puda, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u255	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Since our opponents keep repeating the slogans that are supposed to raise this overall intensity of the inhabitants, as far as all the projects are bad, I have three questions for the Minister. First question: Is it true that changes to the article. Point 1 concerning Article. 4 laws will serve to speed up the disclosure of rights in perpetual books? Second question: Is it true that under the Act we meet the expectations of housing cooperatives, as well as those entrepreneurs, because the provision allows the choice of the payment system for conversion? And the third question: Is it true that the amendment proposes changes that express the interests of perpetual business users according to government housing policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u256	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, club PKO... The Civic Platform... [[Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, great. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u257	Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Let's hear it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is still doubt as to the constitutionality of the law which was adopted in July. Self-governments still have reservations about the fact that this law receives some of the future revenues of government budgets. But we have another phenomenon. You offered a solution for the rich. The rich will be able to buy their rights in a short time and benefit from a 60% discount. The poorer ones won't have that chance. Therefore, you have prepared the law for the rich. And one more thing, yesterday, we agreed at the committee meeting that the Minister would answer the question, as long as the fees for perpetual use had increased at the moment and as much as the Poles would pay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Circle of Modern Posel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a brief question: Is it true that if in July the state had listened at least a bit to the opposition's arguments and the social side, today it would not be this confusion over time, but only those provisions that would allow for the good preparation and formulation of this law would have been adopted by then, precisely thanks to the amendments of the opposition? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u260	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Artur Soboń, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, above all, for supporting further legislative work on the novel proposed by the Ministry. But a few things I'd like to explain here. First of all, the bill came into force on October 5th this year and what's more... [[It will apply.]] ...on the basis of this law, local governments have already issued resolutions of the Councils, giving a bonus to the extent referred to here, i.e. from this basis a fee in the form of twenty fees per year. So in this respect, Local governments do their job and do not complain like Members of the Civic Platform. Moreover, these are often local governments, which are not governed by law and justice, and they are also granting benefits to their residents on the basis of this law. [[It's the law of the opposition.]] And that is what we wanted, so that such discounts according to the constitutionality of these regulations can be given by local governments. In reply to Mrs Chmiel, it must be said that we have a positive opinion of the local government on this novel. She is neutral to the local government and we talked about this in committee, the voice of the local government sounded there, so I don't see the need to scare the resistance of local governments at the moment. The local governments have prepared, prepared and will issue certificates from 1 January and implement something that Poles have been waiting for for for a long time. This law will make 2.5 million perpetual users eligible, i.e. 2.5 million Polish families, which today are owners of their apartments and houses, but at the same time users of perpetual land, barely perpetual users, because it is owned by either the local government or the State Treasury, will be fully owners and owners of the land, and their home or apartment forever. We judge this issue once and for all by giving property to Poles. This whole operation is obviously difficult, but we're taking on this challenge. It is not easy and I agree with Mr Kotowski that we will probably analyze the implementation of this law sometime, but that is the nature of things. This means that if someone thought that the liquidation of this relic of the Polish People's Republic would go without any doubt, it can be seen that unfortunately it will not be so, because real estate matters in Poland are extremely complicated at all. This is the story and sometimes we will continue to analyse the provisions of this law, but this does not mean that we are to withdraw from this universal operation of the patronage of Poles, only that means that we should adapt these provisions to the expectations that housing cooperatives and other entrepreneurs have in this case, which are a little alongside the basic law - because it does not concern entrepreneurs, only individuals - have been subject to state aid regulations. What the Civic Platform has proposed in its amendments, Mr Grabarczyk, is the law for the rich, i.e. you said to the Poles: "Wait still, it will not be on 1 January, and on 1 July, so that the local authorities, as Mrs Chmiel said, will even the charges. They have evened the fees - I will explain this to all Poles who listen to us - in Polish means increases, means updating and raising the annual fee, which will be the basis for calculating the conversion fee. In short, the Civic Platform has tabled an amendment today, which will allow for an increase in the fees for perpetual use for the next six months... [[Alignment.]] This equalization is just a lift. To answer Mr Grabarczyk's question: after 1 January 2019 Poles for perpetual use will pay nothing. They will only pay a conversion fee, because they will already be owners, but if we did not adopt this law, Poles for perpetual use would pay forever and they would never be owners. That's the difference when it comes to this project. [[But the question was how many local governments raised...]] On the other hand, as regards legislative doubts, I, of course, do not want to appeal to the experience of your Members, but this is sometimes the way to clarify doubts with legislators, i.e. that we make our arguments, the legislators ask, we ask whether we understand the rules as well. The vast majority of issues were clarified at this very last meeting and not consummated with any amendment, change. This is what this tedious legislative process looks like, and if Members do not have patience, I am sorry, but unfortunately we have to work so hard to be precise and so that these rules can be clear to all audiences. In the case of this amendment, it is primarily about those who want to rotate their property and will have a faster application procedure to obtain a certificate, so that property can be quickly isolated or sold, and entrepreneurs who will be able to choose how to pay, so as to avoid aid for public aid in this system of twenty annual fees. Finally, this does not mean that we will not want to convince the European Commission about the systematic end of perpetual use that the system of payment proposed by us should be universal and apply to all actors. But this is stage two. In the first stage we give the property of 2.5 million Polish families, which on 1 January 2019 will become owners of their homes and apartments. This is indeed part of the housing programme of Law and Justice, the housing programme of the Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u262	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Grabarczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you misunderstood my statement. I said that the law that you built and which Law and Justice presented here, in the Seym, is the law for the rich, because only the rich will be able to pay the conversion fee once. The poor will not be able to bear such expenses without prejudice to themselves, to their loved ones. That is the lack of understanding by the Minister of Justice of the content of the bill presented. And it is, in my opinion, important that this House sounds like it. And the second part, which you referred to, is also that local governments defend their future income, and local governments are the majority of residents living in or in the commune, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If it's the county. And they'll pay more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u264	Thank you very much, sir, thank you very much. Mrs Chmiel is also corrected. One minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u265	Thank you very much. Minister, you didn't understand me either. Since 1 January 2019 - I have been talking about the legal effects of this law. It is known that the law which we have adopted enters into force after 30 days, and on this basis the local governments have adopted resolutions. But I'm talking about the legal effects, about what's gonna happen... It's about the whole implementation, first of all. Secondly, already here a colleague, thank you very much, started referring to this. Sir, Minister, the fact that local governments want to level all their perpetual use charges fairly in their territories is not an act for the rich, because it's an increase for some. This is simply a fair calculation of these fees, so that uniform implementation of this law can be carried out in a given municipality. And don't manipulate that this is an action for the rich. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just fair action...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u266	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u267	...for the residents of a given municipality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u268	Thank you very much. Now the Minister answers. But please be brief, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u269	Very briefly, Mr. Marshal. Then tell the people of Warsaw, ruled by the President of the Civic Platform, how fair it is at the last moment to raise several times the fees for perpetual use in the city of Warsaw, which you call fair compensation. [[Some.]] Tell that to the people of Warsaw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u270	Thank you very much. [[Please. I was called.]] That concludes the discussion. [[But I was called by name.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law on international agreements (prints no. 3039 and 3076). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law on international agreements, print No 3039. The amendment of the Act of 14 April 2000 on international agreements aims to introduce into the Act the concept of losing effect of the existing international agreement and to regulate issues related to the publication in official journals of government declarations indicating the loss of force of the existing international agreements concluded by the Republic of Poland or those agreements to which the Republic of Poland is party. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of the contested draft law at its meeting on 5 December 2018, adopted unanimously a report proposing the adoption by the Polish Parliament of a draft law on printing No 3039, together with amendments of a technical and legislative nature tabled by the Legislative Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u272	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs presented by the President of the Republic of Poland draft law amending the law on international agreements, print No 3039. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report submitted is the result of the President's initiative, which decided to put the issues of expressing or losing effect on the international agreements in force. These issues were indeed underdeveloped in the current international contract law. This President's initiative is therefore a valuable initiative. Regulations or solutions have been introduced into this law which clarify the situations in which international agreements are terminated and the issue of publication. It should be stressed that this initiative did not raise any doubts to the committee and that, following the introduction of minor legislative amendments, the committee unanimously supported this amendment. The position of the Parliamentary Club on this matter is also positive. We therefore request that the adopted report be adopted. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the law on international agreements submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland. As we have heard in the session of the Parliamentary Committee, the draft law responds to practical problems resulting from the fact that the current law is much narrower than it is expected, for example. The Vienna Convention treats the possibility to terminate international agreements in a manner other than the termination by the Republic of Poland. During the work on the bill we learned that the problem could be even several dozen international agreements concluded by the Republic in 1919 and 1939. In part, because some of the countries, parties to these agreements, have ceased to exist or have fallen apart, have changed their name. This applies to the countries of the former Soviet Union or the former Yugoslavia. Here the only question arises: Since we are confronted with problems such as lack of recognition. by the countries of the former Soviet Union, legal continuity and failure to feel the succession of these agreements, why are we doing this so late? Why didn't the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do this before, just waiting for the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland? These are actually rhetorical questions. The Civic Platform will support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. [[Voice from the hall: There is no such club.]] There's no envoy. Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party. There's no envoy, either. Mr... [[Mr Sawicki is here. Marek Sawicki's here.]] [[There it is.]] Oh, there it is. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u277	I'm sorry. I've got a chat. [[Voice from the hall: Ah, these Members.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u278	Oh, excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I wanted to confirm, as at first reading...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u280	A Member of Parliament, sir, a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u281	Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u282	Where's the Senator from the PSL?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u283	And this is Senator Libicki. Don't you know the marshal about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u284	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u285	Senator Libicki is in the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party, so we have a parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u286	Well, well, well. Sure, okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u287	On the merits of the case, I wanted to support the President's initiative and inform you that our club will vote in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Now, Mr Adam Szłapka, near Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Modern One, I wanted to express our position on this bill. This is an absolutely technical solution that simply clarifies the legislation on the termination of international agreements. In fact, it is a pity that this was done so late and it is a pity that it is not an initiative of the government, but of the President. I understand that this is primarily the gesture of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but of course we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u290	Thank you very much. There were no questions, I understand. The Minister doesn't answer. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. There's no representative of the President yet. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 34 hours 14 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the draft act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of social services by the social services centre (print No. 3040). I ask the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of Mr.Paweł Mucha to present the justification for the bill. Minister, you've been running out of time due to your lateness. Please consider this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland a draft act on the implementation of social services by the social services centre, contained in the sejm print no. 3040. This presidential bill responds to the growing needs and societal challenges of developing and integrating social services at local level. The solutions contained are an expression of the President's concern for all citizens in need of social services. The provisions of the Act are addressed to local governments as those closest to the people. However, they are to serve every man, not only in a particularly difficult personal or material situation, but also to anyone who needs social services. The regulations provided for in the draft law therefore go beyond the framework of social assistance, enabling local governments to provide a wide range of social services that respond to the needs of residents. The development of locally organised social services is one of the priorities of the European Union's social policy. Social services are now, especially in developed countries, a dynamically developing social policy department. Increasing public spending on these services is increasingly seen as a form of investment in human and social capital, and the development of social services systems is considered to be a manifestation of the so-called operation of social services. social investment policy. In recent years, many Member States of the European Union have changed the rules for the organisation and provision of social services, emphasising better integration of these services. Just in the functional integration of social services there is an opportunity to increase their real availability and efficiency and to meet new needs and challenges. The bill is part of the implementation of this trend. Social phenomena in Poland, in particular the ageing of the population and the weakening of intergenerational ties in the family, result in a steady increase in demand for social services organised by public authorities. The solutions contained in the draft law meet this need, creating a legal framework to facilitate the integration and coordination of various types of social services by using the new organizational unit, which will be the centre of social services. It should be stressed that the need to develop social service infrastructure has been repeatedly signalled during the expert debate accompanying the implementation of the 500+ family programme. At present, local service centres, known as social service centres or similar names, are already in place or are being launched in some local governments, especially urban ones. Their aim is to integrate selected types of services, in particular the integration of profiling activities for specific social groups, e.g. Seniors or people with disabilities. These local initiatives respond to social expectations and respond to the needs of the local authorities and their actions go beyond social assistance. The social service centre formula proposed in the draft law directs and organizes initiatives already undertaken by local authorities from the bottom up. It also creates tools to support the implementation of these initiatives. At the same time, due to the large differences between municipalities in the scale of demand for social services, but also in the budgets available to individual local authorities, it includes flexible solutions, tailored to the needs and financial possibilities of different municipalities. It is stressed that the draft law does not provide for provisions requiring municipalities to set up social services centres. The creation of a social service centre will be an opportunity, not an obligation of the municipality. The setting up and running of a social service centre will be an optional task for the municipalities themselves. The social services centre will be a new organisational unit of the municipality and a new social policy institution. The President hopes that social services will be more accessible to the population thanks to the activities of the centres and that local authorities will be able to respond more accurately and in a more comprehensive way to the growing and changing needs of people, families and social groups. Given the need to adapt the proposed solutions to municipalities of different sizes and needs, the project assumes that the local authorities concerned will be able to create centres of social services in two modes. Firstly, by transforming the social assistance centre into a social service centre. The centre will then operate in the area of one municipality, taking over the current tasks of the social assistance centre. This is a proposal aimed primarily at medium-sized and large municipalities. On the other hand, the second mode involves setting up a centre on the basis of an agreement between municipalities for two or more municipalities. The centre will then operate alongside existing municipal social assistance centres, working with them. It is a solution designed primarily for smaller municipalities. For cities above 100,000. The bill provides for them to be able to choose the procedure for setting up the centre, i.e. setting up a centre by transforming a social assistance centre or setting up a centre as a new organisational unit alongside the existing social assistance centre in the city. It should be stressed that the aim of the municipalities to establish social service centres is not to consolidate and centralise the provision of services in a single institution, but to integrate and coordinate effectively the services provided by various local public and non-public service providers cooperating with the Centre. The municipalities will be able to operate through the centre of social services already provided - the municipalities will decide which services to entrust to the implementation of the centre - as well as the transfer to the centre of new social services. New social services to meet the needs of residents will be offered, among others. on the basis of social services programmes adopted in the municipality. The project foresees that the creation of social services programmes will be an optional task for the municipalities themselves. The development of the community services will be based on a diagnosis of the needs and potential of the local government in the field of social services by the centre of social services. This diagnosis will be developed every 5 years with the possibility of updating and consulting residents and their organisations. The social services set out in social services programmes should therefore be a genuine response to the needs of the local community concerned. At the same time, it should be stressed that the services set out in the programmes can be addressed both to the general public and to individual categories of persons and families and to selected social groups and groups of residents with specific needs. Given the need for better coordination of social services provided to individuals when they use many different services over a longer period of time, the project provides for the possibility for the Centre to develop social services plans for these individuals. Since the aim is to guarantee the proper quality of services provided under individual plans, these plans will be subject to ongoing monitoring by the social service coordinators at the centre. In order to shorten the procedure for the provision of social services resulting from the social services programme, the draft law provides for specific simplified arrangements for the eligibility of residents to provide social services resulting from social services programmes using the professional staff of the Centre. In accordance with the draft law, outside social services, social services centres will also have activities aimed at the entire local communities, aimed at the integration of residents and increasing social cohesion. The organisation of the local community will be responsible for the implementation of these activities. This will make social services not only provided by professionals representing various aid professions available at the centre of the individual social services plans, but also free support measures of a self-help or voluntary nature carried out by the inhabitants themselves, e.g. Neighborhood help. In order to ensure the best possible standard of service provided by the social service centre, the project includes regulations on the organisational structure of the social service centre and requirements for professional staff employed in the centre. The project assumes that social services providers under specific social services programmes, i.e. those directly performing specific social services resulting from the social services programme for those qualified by the Centre, will be able to be both public entities, e.g. local government, as well as non-public, e.g. NGOs or entrepreneurs. The numerous amending provisions contained in the draft aim to align the provisions of the laws in force with the draft act on the implementation of social services by the social services centre in such a way as to enable it to function in the current system of law. The draft law also proposes to amend the Individual Income Tax Act, which aims to extend the catalogue of income exempt from personal income tax to the value of unpaid or partially paid social services provided to a person on the basis of a social services programme. The assumptions for the proposed law and the draft law themselves were subject to extensive consultation at numerous meetings held between March and October 2018. Government, local government, social partners and representatives of social policy, social services, social services and social assistance were involved. The draft law was submitted for opinion to the Social Dialogue Council, representative trade unions and representative employers' organisations. During the work on the draft law, the Law Office of the President of the Republic of Poland cooperated with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would like to stress in particular that this project responds to the needs reported by local government officials as part of the work of the Local Government Review Team, which brings together all organisations concentrated in representative organisations, ranging from the Rural Unions of the Republic of Poland to the Union of Polish Voivodships. With regard to the financial impact of the proposed changes, it is necessary to emphasise that, given the optional setting up of a social service centre by the municipalities, the entry into force of the law will have financial consequences only in those municipalities which decide to set up a centre. On the other hand, simplified rules for the eligibility of persons for social services and the setting of social services charges should contribute to reducing the administrative costs associated with the provision of social services. It is assumed that the creation of a centre will improve the accessibility and attractiveness of social services offered to residents by extending the range of services offered by the local government. In addition, the flexible formula proposed in the project for building a local social service offer will allow for a quicker and more flexible adaptation of municipalities to the current needs of residents. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In presenting the main principles of the bill, I ask you to give a positive assessment of the draft act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of social services by the social services centre and to direct it to further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u292	Thank you very much. I am pleased to welcome the students of the elementary school in Tereszpol. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] We are now entering the discussion. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice will be taken by Mrs Bernadette Krynick.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the presidential draft law on social services provided by the social services centre, print No. 3040. The aim of the legal solutions is to develop and integrate social services systems at local level. Social phenomena in recent years, the ageing of the population and the weakening of intergenerational ties in the family have led to a steady increase in demand for social services by public authorities. The legal framework to facilitate the integration and coordination of actions by local authorities, the introduction of new services, the improvement of their quality and quality of life of society and the better use of resources. The development of social services systems is considered to be a manifestation of the operation of the so-called. social investment policy. The creation of integrated local service systems supports the development of cross-sectoral cooperation and the exploitation of the potential of third sector organisations, promoting the integration of territorial communities. The activities of the centres will facilitate access to social services for a wider population. Municipal authorities will be able to respond more accurately and in a more comprehensive way to the changing needs of local communities. In the systemic aspect, centres will constitute an institutional bridge between, on the one hand, social support organised according to the principle of selectivity and addressed to the most vulnerable people and families and, on the other hand, social support of a general nature, with services offered to all concerned residents. By using the formula of social service centres, support of a general and selective nature is mutually identified in such a way that the support addressed to the most deprived becomes complementary to the universal programmes. The establishment of social service centres will create optimal organisational and formal conditions for the development of social services as an important type of public service. At the same time, it will allow for the continuation of selective programmes aimed at vulnerable people and families under existing conditions, using social services and their experience in social work. The concept of centres is consistent with national social policy. The integration of social services and the development of social area infrastructure, including in rural and outermost areas, is in line with the objectives of the Responsible Development Strategy. It is also consistent in substance with the 500+ programme, because the development of social services has a clear pro-family profile, and it will be built by local authorities to secure the needs of the family. The mission of the centres is to actually increase the availability of social services. The services will be addressed to all interested residents, not just the people and families most in need. The offer of centres will also provide a supply response to the growing demand for social services thanks to the 500+ programme. It should be added that such centres are already established in our country bottom-up - in Warsaw, Lublin, Gdynia. They respond to the needs of local governments, have tangible effects, have a positive impact on the development of cooperation between local government and the third sector. The assumptions of this bill were widely presented, among others. by representatives of local government, experts, representatives of civil sector organisations, and the project itself was consulted with academics involved in social policy, members of the Social Assistance Council, representatives of local government, social workers and representatives of non-governmental organisations. Comments to the project were also made via e-mail. The project presented is undoubtedly a real answer to the challenges facing Poland, which Polish municipalities face, in the area of social services. It introduces solutions to facilitate the organisation and efficient provision of coordinated social services for a growing group of people in need of such support from year to year. In view of all of this, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the draft law presented and asks for further proceding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u294	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd, PO-KO club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Social services, in view of the new challenges of the modern world, are now a dynamically developing social policy activity, especially in developed countries as well as in the European Union. They aim to respond effectively to new social needs and challenges, which is, of course, an investment in human and social capital. It is therefore worth noting that strengthening the aid measures and the public aid offer, among others. through the development of social services, it is undoubtedly in the right social interest. Therefore, the project that we are working on today and the solutions proposed in the direction meet the expectations. This would probably be the case if it were not for the fact that the proposed assumptions raise a lot of doubts and have a number of negative effects in terms of assistance to the most deprived and also contain a number of risks which, by rushing along with the work on the document, seems to have not been reduced or mitigated in any way. Although in the explanatory memorandum you write about a number of consultations and mention a number of stakeholders who can opinion the bill, you have not included any opinion or position in the paper. There is also no government position, although we can presume that it will be positive, because at the beginning of this year this ministry was preparing this law. So why did the Ministry stop working on preparing, as we have all agreed before, an important direction of change, a draft act on the social services centre? What was the reason? Minister! By taking over this project on behalf of the President in order to further process it, have you conducted a thorough consultation and social dialogue and listened to the social partners who will implement the provisions of this law? No, I'm afraid not. This is demonstrated by the statements of the participants at the meeting, even on 7 September. They were the ones who received it only about 48 hours before the scheduled talks despite repeated requests for prior delivery of the document. It is worth reminding that the project has 42 pages, has 74 articles. Participants expressed their deep opposition to such treatment. Don't you think, Minister, that the lack of reliable and in-depth provisions can lead to the fact that the right and necessary initiative to strengthen social services could be lost as a result of the rapidly implemented changes? It is difficult to talk about dialogue and willingness to introduce good solutions when acting under pressure of time, and the fact that all activities were subject to pressure of time, did not hide the members of the National Development Council, saying during meetings that they were acting in the rhythm of the electoral calendar. High Izbo! I'm going back to analyzing the provisions of the bill. They raise a lot of doubts and create many risks that result from not quite thorough analysis and proposed solutions. We will certainly discuss them while the committee is working, because our club will also request that this project be sent to the committee. But according to the law, the municipalities will be able to create CUS. I would like to remind you that, in the current legal state, it is also the counties that carry out many tasks in accordance with the rules in force, and somehow in this law I did not find any records concerning the place where the counties could be located. I don't know what that means. The new law also introduces new additional tasks for employees. Where, then, is the increase in wages foreseen? Are there any wage changes planned and when? Why is this project not also taking into account changes in the rights and obligations of workers that the Social Assistance Council has called for internships in social assistance? Minister, the bill has not yet entered into force, and there are already allegations that advisers and experts working on this document are engaged in paid events, seminars on this legislation. Does this not question their integrity and objectivity? Isn't that lobbying for certain solutions? Don't you think this situation needs to be clarified? Another element of concern is the financing of the tasks proposed by the Act. The fact is that this is a task commissioned by the municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will additional resources be added to these additional tasks?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u296	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u297	Finally, Mr. Marshal, I would just like to say that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u298	This was Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u299	...please refer this project to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u300	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Kukiz Club15 on the procedated bill presented by the President on the social services provision by the Social Services Centre from print No. 3040. I would like to say that this is perhaps the first law in this Parliament, which concerns social policy, social assistance, which actually has its beginnings and can have the name of reform. I am very pleased that this bill is in Parliament and that it is a presidential proposal. Let me just give you a little memory of my work. I started working as a social worker in 1996. I worked there for 10 years as a social worker. I left social assistance mainly because in the Polish system it is not possible to help people effectively, it is simply not possible to help them so that they can manage themselves later in life. Social assistance, even though we have very well-educated social workers, because it has been ensured that the requirements are very high, unfortunately it is a help that strengthens people in helplessness and causes them to not come out of this social assistance for years, because it mainly deals with the administration of financial resources, which is actually another office, not an aid institution. The direction you have presented is really a very good direction. Of course, the bill is large, it changes many and a number of different laws that have been built over the years, and it requires the work of the committee, I agree with the Member, and we will be very happy to join in the work on this law, while the direction is really good. First of all, it is based on the principle that we should strive for, that is, to promote methods, ways of working in social assistance, which aim to give people a fishing rod rather than a fish. Because, in fact, for years... I mentioned that I left social assistance precisely because I was studying and abroad, and during various EU projects, working with different partners of new, modern working methods with people who have difficulties in the labour market, who are having difficulties in their family life, in dealing with situations, and in fact these methods could not simply be implemented in social assistance, because such a constructed law unfortunately did not allow a social worker to use alternative methods or really force the change to which he wanted to bring his client. It was only in non-governmental organisations that EU or other bilateral assistance could be tested and implemented in non-governmental organisations. That is why I am pleased that this law is holistic about the problem of the local community for the first time, that we need to help a family as a whole, creating an alternative. Of course, this is an alternative, because I understand that there will be no obligation for local governments to convert social assistance centres into a service centre, but there is an alternative and there is the possibility that we will not waste money, for example. EU, the effects of this EU money, which were very clear, because we put a lot of money in, tested and implemented methods such as tutoring, coaching, the third method of social work, in fact never really realized in Poland, the method of working with the local community. Indeed, we have gained these experiences over the years. We have good professionals, good experiences. And this bill will just make it happen. I am missing one thing in this bill and I will encourage the President to actually lean on it, because it will cause us to save money and we can spend money even more effectively, because in the centre of the services you are proposing, there is a task of combating unemployment and solving unemployment. We spend 12 billion on this task at work offices really inefficiently. So if we are already working on a combination of these services and not to duplicate money to really condense resources and act on effects, it is worth considering whether part of the tasks that are absolutely inefficiently carried out at work offices, such as professional advice or various active methods to prevent unemployment, also refer to these services, because 70% of the labour office customers in the current unemployment situation They're also social services clients and they've been there for years. So it is worth leaning on and really going a step further to actually spend this money differently, at least in these ranges, and it will be a very good step. Of course, we declare cooperation and support for this law, because, as I mentioned, this is the first law in the area of social assistance, which really has the mark of reform in this Parliament. And I'm very happy about that, and thank you for that bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u302	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[I'm here.]] Oh, it's you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I present my position on the presidential draft law on the implementation of social services by the Centre for Social Services. Preliminaryly, the club supports and recommends directions, solutions that have been identified in this law. We agree with the very idea of consolidating social services by setting up a single institution that will coordinate the exercise of competences by the functioning offices, institutions and bodies involved in family aid, social assistance and will aim, this institution, the creation of social policy. We are convinced by the arguments contained in the explanatory memorandum that this will be a law that will create a system of so-called. one window, that is to minimize bureaucracy, facilitate the use of assistance to beneficiaries, customers. Generally speaking, it is about rationalising and minimising the costs of the whole social policy system, all the more so as the problem is wide. According to the CSO report, about 1 million households and about 2.5 million Poles are currently benefiting from social assistance. A recent CBOS survey showed that as many as 14% of the population benefit from or benefit from social assistance facilities. Every fourth Pole is over 65 years old, close to 8% has a disability ruling and 950 thousand. Poles remain unemployed. Today, for help, they must go to various separate institutions, depending on what support they need and expect. I understand that after the change, one visit in one particular place will be enough to get your business done. Another reason is that this will clarify the competences and simplify the decision-making of social assistance institutions. Currently, family aid centres, community welfare centres or labour offices, or rehabilitation centres for disabled people operate separately, often in isolation from each other's decisions, often do not know about decisions that are issued to the same person by other institutions. I am therefore so convinced that this will be very beneficial for social assistance customers, that the actions will be more concrete, and that this will also allow for individualisation of forms of social assistance. The very idea of setting up social services centres is absolutely right. However, it is worth once again discussing the draft at the committee meeting, perhaps setting up a subcommittee to eliminate the risks identified by the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance. In particular, it is a matter of detailing the competences of employees and the offices themselves. The project assumes that it is the municipality that sets up a social services centre while maintaining a social assistance centre. It is therefore necessary to clarify the rules governing precisely the timetables for the tasks of the two institutions in order to eliminate the risk of decision-making chaos and duplication of competences. The next question concerns the budgetary question. The project assumes that the work of the Centre will be financed from the budget of the municipality as well as from government resources allocated to specific social assistance tasks. So it's worth it. specify, or e.g. municipalities will be able to apply for increased subsidies to finance the activities of the two institutions. For the Polish People's Party, social policy was and is a priority - it was started by Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz - and any action or act by the Government of Law and Justice or the President concerning good solutions within the framework of social policy will be supported by the Polish People's Party. We ask for a fair, above the division of work on this bill. And, of course, we also declare our willingness to take part in the work on this good law that consolidates social services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u304	Thank you. Now you have the floor of Monika Rosa, near Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill presented is an interesting project. I think we should all work on it in committees, but certainly without haste, perhaps organize a public hearing, invite NGOs, representatives of social workers and social assistance. The idea itself is the right one. It assumes integration, coordination of various types of social services responding to the needs of local communities. According to the project, local authorities will probably be able to respond more comprehensively to the growing needs of people, families and local communities. Finally, more than 1 million households benefit from social workers, social workers. It is very important to be able to carry out specific social support tasks within one institution organised according to the principle of selectivity and specifically addressed to specific persons, families, needy. Let us remind you that, indeed, social worker work is very difficult work, but at the same time it is very low-paid work and therefore the number of social workers in the country is decreasing. Due to the low wage, this work is becoming very underpaid. People after college are quite reluctant to take this job, and experienced workers either retire or go to other industries. Therefore, such a comprehensive reform cannot take place without the participation of local authorities, it cannot take place without the participation of representatives of social workers and social workers, it cannot take place without the participation of NGOs. Hence my question: Will such comprehensive work on project solutions, as we can see, be conducted in a very large openness of all parliamentary clubs, parliamentary clubs and circles? In particular, it is worth responding to the doubts raised by the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance. It pointed to the lack of stable funding for such solutions and the fact that this could adversely affect the coherence of the system and the flow of information between institutions and other sectors that also deal with social assistance issues. It also pointed to the possibility of centralising the aid system, but also the question of longer waiting for support. There were concerns about reducing the availability of social assistance services, including as a result of increased distance to such social services centres, if they were to be organised, for example. by two, by three municipalities. So, in the direction, yes, the reform is certainly very necessary, but let's not reform it on a living organism. Let us set out clearly the financing rules, conduct an in-depth debate, involve all those who should speak on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u306	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft law on social services implemented by the social services centre. The project includes a legal framework for the optional establishment by local authorities of new organisational units, social services centres, which would coordinate widely understood and universally supported citizens, including people with disabilities, independent lives or their home care providers. Importantly and worth emphasising, a social service centre could be set up for one municipality, which would involve the transformation of a social assistance centre in its territory, or for a larger number of municipalities, which would mean the establishment of a centre in one of them as a separate unit from OPS. This is an important change, as it eliminates the most frequently invoked risks arising from the initially proposed solutions in the course of the work on this project. I am convinced that, at the same time as the rules in which they have been passed to our deliberations, social services centres will meet their objectives. I share the opinion of many sociologists that rapid demographic and social changes force us to pursue a more effective local social policy. Support must be more easily accessible, universal and adapted to the current needs. Designed centers are supposed to be a tool for this. According to the draft regulation, it is intended to be the institutions where the residents concerned will be able to obtain information on where and what assistance they can benefit from and what powers they have. The centres are also to act as a local self-help organizer, it is about volunteering or neighbouring assistance, and to keep an eye on the needs of the inhabitants, so that the tasks they carry out will better respond to the changes in society. Given that many local authorities have already decided to set up similar institutions in their territories and that they successfully carry out their assigned tasks, I trust that this project will not only regulate this matter, but will also dare the next local authorities to do so. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u308	Thank you very much. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Michał Szczerba, PO-KO Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, also the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The municipalities will be able to provide the Centre with the new social services set out in the programmes adopted in the form of resolutions by the Municipal Councils. Such programmes are to be based on a diagnosis of the needs of the local community. So I have a few questions. These diagnoses are to be made once every five years. Why was it assumed that these diagnoses should be made every 5 years? Do we have to be so rigid in defining this time frame for the diagnosis and formulation of the program? Will the municipality council be able to modify its records during the implementation of the programme? Besides whether the conversion of municipal social centres into social services centres involves the exchange of staff or managers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this gonna be the way to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u310	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u311	...replacing present professionals with their own people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u312	Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you what problems access to services that meet basic needs in local environments is about to be solved by this law on service centres. On the basis of what analyses and expertise was the bill presented? Are NGOs capable of providing permanent services in the context of permanent employment, permanent placement and high staff qualifications that are most needed today? The needs are unsatisfied here. I just see a lot of very old ideas in this bill, but the situation, when it comes to local environments, has already gone very far, but it is very far away. And I don't see you referring here to these new trends, processes and phenomena, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What they're like.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u315	I have a question. Minister, will there be any incentive system for local governments that will decide to implement these centres? Will they receive additional funds? I think if there's no such incentive system, it's a dead bill. The second question concerns diagrams. How is this actually going to work? How, technically, will the coordinated activities of institutions actually be carried out by other local authorities? What are the schematics? How is this really going to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u316	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A question for the Minister. The idea is interesting and right, for after 30 years social work is more than just paying money. It's about the money. In the idea of the state, you combine different areas: health promotion, promotion of the labour market, social assistance, and as we know today all these institutions are actually based on other laws and other systems of financing them. An example is social workers who recently had a holiday, and it was their black holiday, the mourning of earnings. Question. How do you see these workers in this center, because there is really a new group that should have new ranks at this point, new thresholds? The question is, what are the rates and how would you like to settle them financially? Contrary to appearances, things will crash into money, especially for workers who can expect it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u318	Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That's a very good direction. Indeed, it is possible to call the proposed project a revolution in social policy. The Minister has already pointed out at the beginning that Europe is moving in this direction, but this means increasing resources. Therefore, while creating CUSs, where we know that many municipalities actually implement this and this proposal will give the legal basis, formalise this activity... On the one hand, I would like to claim social workers. This is an excellent, well-trained professional group, which today carries out these tasks, which you are talking about in the proposed project. Unfortunately, their wages often offend this professional group. That's one thing. The second thing I'd like to ask you is, did you think about the role of the county in this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in providing such services? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u320	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u321	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna bring up the county thing. In my speech I also pointed out, I think, an important element, because the counties carry out a lot of social assistance tasks. How do you see social services programmes adopted by municipalities, what role do you see there? It seems to me that they should either be created together, or at least evaluated by the county authorities, because they will jointly carry out these important tasks. Another important issue, which we have already discussed today, is the motivation of local governments to want them to carry out this task, to set up a social services centre. Today, as we know, many local governments already implement similar forms, and the rest do not, we know for what reasons. There is no motivation, there is no means to allow them to do so. I think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That there should be some kind of extra program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u322	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Paweł Mucha, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I thank you for these votes of support, because from all the statements there was a declaration of willingness to continue cooperating on this project, support for the direction that is included in the presidential initiative. I'm counting on such fruitful work. As the President of the Republic of Poland's law firm, we are absolutely open to such a substantive discussion within the committee. On the other hand, it is not possible to agree with the charge here that these works are carried out in a hasty way or without consultation. As I said in the presentation of this project, it was an expression of an authentic application from the local government. Local governments by the Union of Rural Municipalities of Poland, the Union of Polish Cities, the Union of Polish Metropolises, the Union of Polish Cities, the Union of Polish Powiatów, the Union of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland, within the Group on. The review of local government law discussed the problems with regard to social services in rural communities. That's why it's a solution that we have an agreement. Not every municipality has to carry out this procedure by transforming a social assistance centre. We can conclude an agreement and then several municipalities will fall within the scope of this newly created entity, which will be the centre of social services. As far as the big cities are concerned, these examples, including those of your fellow Members, whether it be Warsaw or Gdynia or other such examples, are known to us. We see that local governments are working effectively in this area, sometimes choosing specific needs, whether those affected by disability or other social groups, and want social services to integrate and coordinate these activities in such a way, so absolutely, as it was here, it is the creation of a certain legal capacity, with the freedom of whether it is the direction that the local government supports, or whether it wants to lead. Undoubtedly, the Act will enable and facilitate the functioning of such a orderly formula. On the issue of any public consultation, we talked about the fact that they were very extensive. This work lasted for months. There have been meetings across the country, including social workers or employees, more widely understood, of the social assistance sector. Of course, there have been some doubts, but I must tell you quite frankly, that when it comes to the issue of remuneration for workers, the right demands for considering changes in this area, that is the matter of the regulation, it is not legal matter, it cannot be included in the bill. This is part of a broader discussion, but I know - there is Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska present in the Chamber - that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is conducting this kind of dialogue, talks, looking for opportunities here. We know that work on this element is also being carried out, but this is not the perspective of the President's initiative, but of a broader process, which is obviously the responsibility of the Ministry. When it comes to such a voice that appeared here, critical of the fact that these were old ideas, of course these were ideas that were known to science, were discussed, were presented, but I am talking about the genuine need for self-government, self-government practitioners who say: Give us a legal tool that will enable us to organize processes related to the functioning of integrated social services. Of course, as has been said here, today this is a pan-European phenomenon. In the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, there are examples of such processes being followed. As far as specific comments are concerned, of course, the law itself provides for this in Article. 3, the project is an issue related to the possibility of carrying out social services which are the tasks of the county's own and the tasks of government administration commissioned to the county, after prior agreement between the municipality... So, probably - here in the speech was spoken e.g. on issues related to the functioning in the area of today's scope of operation of the district labour office - it is possible for some of these services to be carried out within the social services centre if there is an agreement. We have here a voluntary assumption of this agreement between the county and the municipality. Today, agreements between local government units exist in many spheres and these possibilities are there. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 3 expressly states that, in the case of a city on the rights of the county, the implementation by the social services centre does not require an agreement if we have a situation relating to the connection at the level of the city on the rights of the county of those county and municipal competences. With regard to Mrs Bernadeta Krynicka, I would like to thank the Law and Justice Club very warmly for their support. Mrs Ewa Drozd signalled doubts about salaries. That's what I've been trying to answer. When it comes to discussion, we're open to it. As far as Agnieszka's voice is concerned, as I said, the agreement with the county can create such opportunities. Let's talk about this in committee. Thank you very much for this directional support expressed on behalf of the club PSL and the wheels of Modern and Free and Solidarne. As we are talking here, I do not share these doubts about any threat or chaos that could be caused by this, because in my opinion there is no reason to say that there will be any organizational or competent confusion. Today, this is already the case for many tasks. Here is another correction: we are only talking about tasks which are the tasks of the municipality itself, but which are optional, i.e. we are talking about possibilities and that we have indicated a directory of tasks from areas that are in the field of local government activity, and today the municipality is very often free to choose. For example, in implementing programmes such as family benefits, maintenance fund, 500+ or housing allowances, the municipality itself decides whether it will be implemented directly at the municipal office or by OPS or by an individual. We're convinced... Besides, the law is built, and in the explanatory memorandum we stress this, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which is expressed and in the introduction to the Constitution, and then in the specific provisions concerning local self-government. We are going to those municipalities that have an idea, they are implementing these programmes and today they want to have the legal opportunity to do so within the social services centre. I'd like such a positive rivalry to be built. It is also an assumption or a thought that you expressed in this work, Professor Marek Rymsza. The social service centre will be such a name or will be such a qualification of the entity that even in the municipalities they will say: Yes, since I have a social service centre, that is, that I am responding to the needs of the inhabitants, I am aware of what kind of services are needed in my municipality, and that is what I am doing. I hope this is going in this direction, and I see this huge positive potential in local government. Does this optionality pose a risk to institutional cohesion? That's where the question came from. Of course not, because it is that tasks according to the rules laid down in the legal acts... There are no threats here, no chaos. As regards issues related to difficulties in accessing the benefits offered, I do not see that either. The idea of the law is precisely the kind that we have a social assistance client - in your speeches it was mentioned - but we would also like to avoid... I am not saying that this is an accurate decoding of certain behaviours, but there is a social phenomenon, which is that the customer of social assistance - Mrs Agnieszka Szczaj also said - is immediately identified as a person in a difficult situation of life, material, and in the case of social services we are talking about a wider category which is expressed here. We are not saying that these are services that are to be selectively selected according to the difficult situation of life, but that we are talking about the universality of the possibility of using this offer and that the municipality through the programme should also indicate what kind of needs are in its territory. So I absolutely do not see the emergence of CUS in any way generating any threat or difficulty in accessing benefits. On the other hand, it will allow social services to be introduced where it was not carried out, where it was not seen and where we only had an environmental interview and the possibility to benefit from assistance only within these frameworks concerning the customer of social assistance sense strictly. As far as concerns about the status of social workers are concerned, we are not talking about eliminating OPS. The bill doesn't mention any liquidation anywhere. We are talking about transformation, that is, one of the modes is the possibility that employees of the social assistance centre, if the municipality makes such decisions, become employees of the social services centre. There's no assumption here about, I don't know, reducing jobs or any behavior that would be negative from the perspective of employees. On the other hand, by describing the structure of the centre quite precisely, the law points to the taking over of these tasks related to the scope of social assistance and refers to these mechanisms related to the extension of this pallet as regards social services. As regards issues related to the incentive system - this was already Mrs Urszula Pasławska's question - yes, of course, it is a discussion that will be conducted within the framework of EU funds. Moreover, we also point out in the explanatory memorandum that we have some opportunities which are linked to the functioning of the European Social Fund. On the other hand, we are showing concrete examples of the fact that in some voivodships it was noticed in regional operational programmes. So at the level of the local government, mechanisms are being created to support sub-governments so that they act actively in the sphere of social services. And today, local governments benefit from this, both municipal and urban, on the rights of the county. I think in the course of this discussion that will be held... We conducted such consultations with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, and with the Ministry of Investment and Development, and this dialogue between the Polish President's Office and the government party was very good. I do not hide that there is such expectation from local governments to create certain attractions or incentives. You can imagine specific pilot schemes, additional measures. One can imagine that we will take action within the framework of the state budget or EU funds to promote certain positive attitudes, mechanisms and actions related to the decision of the local government that such a social service centre is set up. As I said, agreements between local government units will be concluded. If there is such an agreement with the county, the tasks can be carried out. We also point out quite precisely when it comes to funding that these are, of course, the own funds of the municipality from its budget, the resources from the state budget for the implementation of social assistance tasks, possibly other tasks in the field of government administration and commissioned municipalities, which would be transferred to the centre. We point out that the municipality can obtain targeted subsidies from the state budget - as I was just talking about - e.g. with possible government programmes to set up and maintain the centre. These are tasks that can be financed from the state budget of up to 80% costs incurred. In addition, the municipality which set up the centre will be able to apply for funding for the implementation of social services within the framework of EU projects and from other grant sources. I have no knowledge of any situation - this has come up in Mrs Drozd's speech - in which the president's advisers would be involved in any kind of training. I take very positively the fact that there have been many meetings, discussions and debates about this bill. As I say, this is a discussion that lasts a year and was a six-month consultation phase. Where there were comments or notifications - we even talked about it in terms of e-mail - we tried to include them, to consider them. On the other hand, there is certainly no such situation, that I can objectively declare, because such a notification was received by the President of the Republic of Poland's Office and was the subject of an explanation. There was certainly no situation in which the President's advisor, in the performance of his duties, would receive any remuneration relating to the subject matter of his speech, lecture or discussion of the matter of the bill. I'm pointing out that this has never happened. On the other hand, the project - as we pointed out in the explanatory memorandum - is actually a complete complement to the stages of the reform of the entire social assistance system or more broadly, to social policy measures. Experts from the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland will certainly comment on these issues during the committee meeting. We, in the explanatory memorandum, give you these names, these experts. These expertises and materials are, of course, also public. They will be available if you request such a demand. But in the explanatory memorandum we made this kind of thought that when the county was established and when a system was created related to the functioning of the county - also by setting up district family support centers - there was no such completion that this system was operational and that it would respond comprehensively to social services needs. OPSs have closed themselves in their sphere, the PCPRs have closed themselves in the sphere of crisis intervention. With regard to social services, in those local governments where we have reflection from the perspective of the governor, mayor or president of the city, it works well there. From a district perspective, it is usually not the strongest in the budgetary, financial sense, and it does not address these challenges. And where we are dealing with local government, which is more - I would say - open to this issue, there some solutions started to work. In our opinion, the contested law will allow the next local authorities to join the best ones. As far as the sources of funding are concerned, we will be looking for them. Thanks to my personal experience resulting from 10 years of legal service to the district family support centre and 10 years of involvement in the crisis intervention centre in terms of free legal advice, after Prof. Marek Rymsza came with this project or the intention to discuss it, and also when local government officials also strongly advocated these solutions, I was fully convinced that it was a project that could be presented to the High House. The President of the Republic of Poland submitted this proposal to you. I am convinced that our work on it [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will have a very positive effect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u324	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the Minister presenting this project on behalf of the President. Please tell me what the de facto purpose of this project is. The President is graciously pointing out to increase and improve the functioning of existing forms of support for social self-governments, but this shows that the President unfortunately does not have sufficient knowledge of the efforts of local self-governments carrying out these tasks and having proven long-term social support systems for citizens who need this assistance most. A number of these needs took on their shoulders NGOs, well prepared for this role, with a group of specialists, with ideas and professional implementation of various programs supporting local communities. Unfortunately, for 3 years there has been a retreat from these proven actions for years, and the most significant are situations where proven NGOs have not received funding for years, and the money is directed to organisations created in haste and on their knees that are completely unprepared to face the real challenges that local communities are experiencing. Mr. President! Take a look at these actions and try to change them, not break down the door that's already open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill provides for the development and integration of local social services systems. According to the designers, they are currently being carried out by various public, social and market actors. The project assumes that social service centres will be created by the local authorities concerned according to two modes, i.e. either by transforming the social assistance centre into a social service centre - then the centre will operate in the area of one commune, taking over the current tasks of the social assistance centre, or by setting up a centre on the basis of an agreement between the municipal authorities, for two or more municipalities - then the centre will function alongside the communal social assistance centres, cooperating with them. The authors state that, due to the optional setting up of a social service centre by the municipalities, the entry into force of the law will have financial consequences only in those municipalities which decide to set up a centre. So the question that needs to be asked here is almost straightforward. With what funds should the municipalities finance the establishment of such centres? Is this another project for which local authorities are given competence, but for which no central funds follow? How will the authors of the project respond to the negative opinion of the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance, which explicitly states that the implementation of the law can cause numerous threats? According to the organization, these places will be less accessible to residents, because the distance from their place of residence they will have to overcome will increase. This applies especially to the elderly, the sick or the disabled. What is the position of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland regarding the above mentioned. An opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u327	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm send the draft act on social services submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland by the Social Services Centre in print No. 3040 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the provision of money to persons residing in 1939 and 1956 at exile or deportation in the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics (print No 3037). I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u328	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present to you a draft law on the provision of money to persons residing in the years 1939 and 1956 at exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Sybirak Day is celebrated annually on 17 September. On this day in 2019 there is a special anniversary, the 80th anniversary of Soviet aggression on Poland. One of the basic instruments of the occupation policy of the Soviet authorities was the mass export of Poles to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, mostly to Siberia. They had two basic objectives: extermination of Polish political, intellectual and economic elites and ethnic cleansing. Deportations started a few hundred thousand Polish citizens who were on inhuman soil. The Martyr's way of exile began when the NKVD invaded their homes when they were given a dozen minutes to pack. Then there was a transport to Siberia for several dozen days in cattle cars with closed windows, with frost reaching several dozen degrees Celsius. The conditions of transport were terrifying. People died of cold, hunger and exhaustion. After reaching the place of the messengers, which were often snowed steppe or taiga, the deportees were waiting for slave labor, poverty, sickness and hunger. The long history of Poles' shipments to Siberia, reaching the beginning of the 16th century, has been supplemented by an extremely dramatic chapter, the consequences of which in the case of people still living are still ongoing today. Until now, however, the question of compensation for Poles residing in 1939 and 1956 in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or deported there has not been finally resolved. To date, the compensation granted by the Polish State for the persecution suffered by the invaders did not cover all Polish exiles. The aim of the bill introduced by your President is to eliminate inequalities and to enable the right claims of Polish citizens who were present in these years, in 1939 and 1956, to be met by the exile in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or deportees who so far have not been compensated for their suffering. With this idea, you were the first to perform the president's sleep. Prof. Lech Kaczyński in 2009 This was also the legislative initiative put forward by a group of Members of the Law and Justice in the Sejm in 2013. This Act is based on the solutions that I had just mentioned. It should be stressed that the project responds to numerous demands received by the President from the Sibirian community, and the solutions contained in it were consulted with the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The proposed law provides for a financial benefit to be granted in proportion to the period of deportation or deportation to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The draft law lays down the rules for granting the money benefit, including the circle of persons entitled to receive it, the amount and the method of granting it. The provision of money will be granted to persons who together fulfil two conditions: firstly, at the time of the application for the benefit of money they have Polish citizenship, secondly, they have obtained under the law on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war repression and post-war periods a decision by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons confirming the period of imprisonment or internment camps or camps under the NKVD due to the activity of combatants, or in prisons and correctional labour camps or correctional labor colonies under the NKVD, due to the activity of combatants or equals, or for political, religious and national reasons in prisons and correctional labour camps, the correctional colonies of NKVD subordinates or the forced cover in the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and deportation there. This solution will allow to cover both persons exported from the territory of the Polish State into the USSR and staying there on exile, as well as persons who were born on exile in the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. In order to eliminate the situation in which the same person is entitled to a cash benefit under the same title, persons who received compensation or compensation under Article from the Treasury were excluded from the group of beneficiaries. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a Act on the recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. The draft also provides for a symmetrical regulation preventing compensation or compensation provided for in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a of that law in case of receipt of a cash benefit under this draft law. The cash benefit will be granted once, in the amount of PLN 200 for each full month of the period under repression in 1939 and 1956. The amount of the cash benefit will not be less than PLN 2400. The benefit will be granted at the request of the person concerned, lodged with the branch of the Social Insurance Institution competent for his place of residence. The application will need to be accompanied by a certificate from the Head of the Office to the Veterans' and Repressed Persons' Affairs of the period of repression from 1939 to 1956. The Social Insurance Institution shall be the competent authority for granting, fixing the amount and payment of the cash benefit. The administrative decision on granting, fixing the amount and refusing to grant the cash benefit will be final. It will be subject to an action before the administrative court in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The benefit will be paid by the person responsible for the place of residence of the branch of the Social Insurance Institution concerned within one month of the date of the decision granting the benefit. The payment of the benefit will be free of enforcement, income tax and will not be included in the income entitlement to any benefits and allowances granted under separate provisions. The cash benefit will be financed together with the costs of handling it from the part of the budget of the State to which the minister responsible for social security is the responsibility. The project provides for 30-day vacathio legis. Taking into account the estimated data of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, the average amount of the cash benefit will evolve at the level of PLN 13 200. Assuming that all entitled would apply for the benefit, i.e. Okay. 24 600 people, the cost of paying this benefit in the global sense will be over PLN 320 million, about PLN 325 million, to be precise. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you to give a positive assessment of the proposal submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland for a money-delivery bill for persons residing between 1939 and 1956 at the exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and to direct it to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u329	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club the position of our club vis-à-vis the draft law on the provision of money to persons residing in 1939 and 1956 at the exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, print No 3037. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is long-awaited by the combatant community. This is a step towards historical justice. We thank the President for this bill, which will make amends for both adults and sick people who are deported in the Soviet Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Piechot, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u332	High Seym! I have the honour, on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, to present my position towards the presidential draft law on the provision of money to persons residing in the years 1939 to 1956 at the exile or deportation in the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. We consider this project to be a valuable addition to the system that supports those injured during the war and after the postwar period during the dictatorship. We believe that there are many victims, just as there were different situations in which people were in those days, and the suffering they experienced. In this system, it occupies a special place and creates the foundation of this support system, a law of 24 January 1991 on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. It is also important for support and benefits for those injured at that time that the Act of 23 February 1991 on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against those repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State is valid. An important element of the system already operating in Poland is also the Act on Invalidities of War and Military. The pillar of this system is the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, as well as the head of this office, which has specific tasks - and those formal, official, and those integrating the environment - and is constantly analysing the needs of these people in order to look for appropriate ways, appropriate support measures. Especially important for those who have experienced suffering in those days is access to medical attention, and this is still a big problem, a great challenge, a great task. Because, of course, such a cash benefit is of great value, many of these people need support, they have different kinds of needs that require specific money. However, when we have been studying the situation of such environments for many years, many times the problem of access to medical care, medical attention, especially since they are people of very advanced age and - all the more so after these transitions - with many health problems. Another major problem of this environment - which also requires constant replenishment, expansion, improvement - are caring services. Many of these people are independent, many of these people are also not close, and therefore environmental services in the place of residence, and services in care centres are a big problem that is still growing, as the needs of these people are growing. In recent times, the miners have been asking very strongly for fuller support. It is also an extremely badly damaged environment in the post-war period by authoritarian power. Young men were directed to work under conditions that were derogatory to all security requirements. Many of them lost their lives, a large part of them lost their health. They need concrete support today, all the more likely that the IPN is declaring an opportunity to unambiguously verify that they were being repressed in this way. The Committee on Petitions has also recently proposed solutions in this area, because it is to our committee, to which I have the honour to chair, that petitions have been sent, as a result of which the committee has decided to address draft laws. It was, for example, an example. the law on ensuring the dignity of memory and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other persons deserved in the fight for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State, as well as the act on redress, on assistance for expelled Gdynians. It's a relatively small environment, but it's extremely small. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Severely injured by the Nazis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u333	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u334	To conclude, I'd like to say once again that we think this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u335	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u336	...for a valuable complement to an existing, extended system. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition will support...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u337	Mr President, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u338	...this project in the course of further work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u339	You're welcome, sir. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the draft law on the provision of money to persons residing in 1939 and 1956 in exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The law prepared by the President of the Republic of Poland complements the law in force in Poland concerning combatants and oppressed persons. It is important for legal, social and dignity reasons. To date, people who were up to 1939 citizens of the Second Polish Republic, and now citizens of the Third Polish Republic, sent or deported to the Soviet Union in the years of the Second World War or later, could only receive kombatanic or compensation benefits in cases where this was due to separate legal provisions, e.g. concerning invalidity acquired as a result of war activities, participation in fights for independent and sovereign existence of the Polish state or repression due to participation in these activities. The mere fact of exposing or deportating, despite the undoubted repressiveness and ailments of these actions, was not a basis for any compensation. That's why this bill is necessary. It shall specify who shall verify the documents and grant the benefits and shall specify the beneficiaries and the procedures for receiving the benefit and the amount thereof. Estimated but reliable calculations indicate that Soviet deportations after Soviet aggression affected at least 1800 thousand of Poland. citizens of the Second Republic of Poland of different nationalities. A lot of them died. Those who survived and today live in the Third Republic of Poland, often cry poverty and also live in oblivion. At my university, thanks to the involvement of Professor Hubert Slim has been operating since 2011. Centre for Documentation of Shipments, Exiles and Resettlements. It consists of a research unit, archive and museum. Its aim is to protect from the forgotten fate of the inhabitants of the Republic, within its present and former borders, who have been subjected to forced migrations. At the same time, the Centre, using its collections, conducts a wide educational campaign, mainly for young people in secondary schools. The employees of the centre meet with people who were born on exile or as children were also deported into the Soviet Union. Many of them do not have any military rights, and therefore a supplement for those who are being repressed. They've been fighting for their rights in court for years. However, even despite positive judgments, the Social Security Office is ruthless and does not grant them benefits. This is not only about the insensitiveness of officials, but also about the legal basis. In Cracow there are people who have become even depressed. On the exile they were repressed, and in Poland they also have many unpleasantties. Let me give you a concrete example of Nina Wierzbicka, who belongs to the Sibirak Union. She received high honors from the President of the Republic of Poland, and the Social Security Office refuses to give her the benefits of cover. This law meets with extremely favorable acceptance from the Sibirak Union in Krakow and elsewhere, because although in part it compensates for the suffering suffered by a large number of people of the Polish Republic, and now a growing group of Polish citizens. Although the cause of their suffering was the Soviet Union, it is difficult in the current legal and international situation to hope that, as its legal heir, Russia, at any foreseeable time, could at least make up for the harm caused to the exiles and deported by the state - the Soviet Union - which Russia feels as an heir. That is why Kukiz15 will support this bill, although it has some comments about its imperfections, mainly such, I would say, Ideally, but I will say this in the context of the question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u341	Thank you very much. The other submissions were forwarded in writing. Let's get to the questions. Six ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, PO-KO. There isn't. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Six months ago, we adopted amendments to the law on the provision of money to those deported to forced labour and to those imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Soviet Union, fulfilling our commitment to these people - after all, to such a few already experienced by fate. Until now, however, the question of compensation for Poles on exile or deportation in 1939 and 1956 has not been finally resolved. To date, the compensation granted by the Polish State for the persecution suffered by the invaders did not cover all Polish exiles. Today we are fulfilling this commitment to another group of people who, for natural reasons, are rapidly shrinking, and who we owe some compensation for. Therefore, with appreciation and gratitude, I would like to refer to the initiative of the President and his law firm, to thank for the introduction of a law whereby the Polish state will be able to contribute financially to those sent to the Soviet Union during World War II as well as during the period of Stalin's terror. These are people who live very modestly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And because they were Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u343	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u344	...have lost wealth and health. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u345	Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Thank you very much, Mr President, for preparing this comprehensive bill. Because before that there were only such residual trials, restrictions concerning e.g. the duration of the period. I am referring here to the 1996 Act, where the time period for this issue was foreseen for the years from 1939 in principle only until the end of 1948. I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. In fact, on the basis of your information, this amount of PLN 200 per month of deportation has been established. In my opinion, it is very low and I think it would be good for the state budget to have money to raise it to at least PLN 400. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u347	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Quote from the justification of the draft law on the provision of money to persons residing in the years 1939 and 1956 in exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: The payment of money will be granted once for each full month of the period subject to repression in the years 1939 and 1956. I will remind you that before the debubekization law entered into force, pensions for former ubeks amounted to several thousand zlotys a month, i.e.: 200 zlotys for heroes and several thousand zlotys for ubeks. And here's the question: shouldn't the people who were being repressed get what they were getting? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u349	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why doesn't the law provide for automatic granting of benefits, even on the basis of the list of persons who are members of the Sibirak Union in Poland? The problem is that many of these people are very old and may not have any knowledge of this law. We are all aware of this, we want the victims, the oppressed and the combatants to receive support, we want to help them somehow, to compensate for these sufferings, and often and loss of health, the harm they have suffered in the past, during repression. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u351	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got a lot of time, so it might be a little longer to ask questions. You ministers are calling, for example, President Kaczyński. In fact, you're doing very well, but the problem is that in 2009, the President prepared a bill that is different from yours on two issues. The first point concerns the amount of the benefit. At that time Poland was in a much worse financial situation than it is now, there were more eligible people, and the President proposed 400 PLN to each person for one month of repression. Why not just raise this amount to 400 PLN? Second line. The President was a very wise man, and he was aware that among those who could benefit from this benefit, there were also those who were unworthy of it. He therefore proposed a number of exemptions related to the fact that some of these people, e.g. then worked in the apparatus of repression of the People's Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why isn't that in this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u353	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Andrzej Dera, Minister of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u354	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you very much for the warm reception of this project. This is how one of my previous speakers said, very expected by the environment of the Sibirian bill, because it is indeed the case that a whole group of people, especially children who were sent down then, were not and are not yet covered by benefits that should belong to them. The second point that has also been raised here in the speech is also very important and I would like to make it clear. The point is that compensation for deportation, for sending Poles to Siberia, should be paid by Russia as the heir of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It's obvious, but for obvious reasons, I don't have to explain it here, if we waited for this move, those people wouldn't have just seen it. This is why the President's speech is about implementing the principle of equality as well. Because notice that a few years ago, people who were in a similar situation, let's call it, connected with the outbreak of World War II, were exported, for example. to Germany, where they worked, but they received compensation. There was this Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation and some funds were received by these people. The Germans, however, felt responsible. Not as compensation as it should be, but these people have received it. On the other hand, those people who have been exported into the Soviet Union have not received this compensation, and that is what I want to say here. The second thing that came out here came up in most of your questions is the question of this basis - 200 PLN or 400 PLN or something. Ladies and gentlemen, we are open, but we want to do this in agreement with the government, given our financial capacity, as we have calculated the cost, assuming that it is to be 200 PLN. If all the people that they have, in our opinion... It's in agreement with the Veterans' Office, too, because it's about that period. You can't - I'll tell you right away - do it automatically, because for each person it was a different period of deportation. We accepted this minimum, minimum compensation, it amounts to PLN 2,400, so that - if anyone was there in a shorter period - there was no situation that someone would get some change, it would amount to several hundred zlotys. We found that this minimum must be specified here. I want to make it clear that these are things that can't be calculated financially. This suffering, this experience to those who were in Siberia, who witnessed it, will not compensate for any money. These are, like one of you said, dignity issues. It is about respect, that the Polish state respects citizens who were treated inhumanly by the Soviet authorities. This will not compensate in any way for the suffering they have suffered. But these people, in the opinion of the President, should be treated the same way as those who were exported the other way to work, to the West, to Germany, or to Poland, and were somehow persecuted. This period of deportation is different, which is why there can't be a vending machine here. There must be a request, there should be a period, no matter what amount we set. I would like to make it clear that we are open to discussions during parliamentary work, especially as regards the financial possibilities of the budget. With this calculation, which we have reported, this amount is about PLN 325 million, because the eligible, according to our calculations, is about 24 600 people. Therefore, if a higher amount is proposed, it will be very easy, because it will be proportionate, to determine what the total amount will be. But I'm leaving this to be discussed during further work on the committee. For our part, we're not saying it has to be that amount. There may be another amount that will be agreed together. As to this, we have no doubt that this is the way it should be done. Ladies and gentlemen! Project... Why are we doing this in this form? Decisions, I hope, because there were voices here that these people are elderly, and that's the way it is - these are people who are already enough years old, just count these years, that's at least 80 years old... [[80+.]] Even if they were born at that time, let us count from 1939 - 79 years old if someone was born in the first years of exile. These are people who are 80 years old and older. Of course, there may be cases where they will not be able to complete these requests. But I do know one thing because I've been talking to sybian environments. These people are under the care of the Sibirak Union. Believe me, the state doesn't have the slightest problem with helping these people fill out these requests. Such assistance was also declared by the Head of the Office for the Repressed Persons of Mr Jan Kasprzyk, who said that if there were such situations, the reports would help these people to complete these requests. They won't be complicated. I would also like to make it clear that this system is so constructed because these periods of deportation are already documented - the staff of the Office for Repressed Persons have a thorough knowledge of this issue. Now it's just about writing in the application, for what period, for how many months, and then technically it will be paid by the Social Insurance Institution at the place of residence of the person so that she doesn't have to go anywhere. This is to be as close as possible to the place of residence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have a request. Because, as I said just now, this is about time now, I have a great request to Parliament - so that we can work in agreement and work as quickly as possible on this project, so that as many people as possible can see this bill that is needed and expected by the Sibirak community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to thank the President for this initiative on behalf of our ministry. For the third time, we are approaching the topic of compensation for our fellow countrymen sent or deported to the Soviet Union. In the previous two terms of office, the Sejm failed to carry this out. I hope we can sort this out now. Of course, I can only confirm with the Minister that no money is able to compensate for the suffering and what was going on there, for what these people have experienced and are still alive today. That's why we're very much in favour of proceding this project. Of course, as far as the financial issue is concerned, the Minister here explained it. We estimate, averaging, that these compensations will be at the level of 13,000. zł, that's where the cost of 325 million PLN comes from. I'll also remind you that these people are practically 100% they also benefit from these benefits, which are for combatants - that is more than 416 PLN, i.e. also during the years during which we worked on these solutions, these people are included in this. Here, too, there have already been answers concerning the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The U.S. has data on these people, the Sibirak union too, so there's no problem here that we can't identify them or help them fill out their applications. I think that - here it is such a suggestion, because we do not have an official position yet - it would be better to pay funds also by the Veterans' Office, which is not by the Social Insurance Institution, but by the Veterans' Office, which is prepared for this, as it is currently paying allowances for the oppressed. I think the office here in this area... But this is a technical issue. I think that on this matter in committee and, of course, also after discussions with the Social Insurance Institution, which, in the event of such an undertaking, would have to change the IT system... This also significantly prolongs the adoption of the date of entry into force of the Act, as the Social Insurance Institution would have to prepare itself for this in the organisational and informational sense. So once again thank you very much and here, of course, there is no official position, but the voice from our department, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is definitely on yes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u357	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the above law is to bridge the gap between the various groups of people repressed during the war and post-war years. The project is intended to help around 20,000. our countrymen. The PSL Club will support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to address a very simple question to the Minister presenting the presidential project. In the justification of this project it is written that it is the answer to numerous postulates of the Sibirak community, i.e. those people who, thanks to their attitude, did not allow Poland to be forgotten. Maybe they didn't fight guns in their hands, but they defended the country with their attitude and, as they write, they promoted its culture, centuries-old history, they promoted the thoughts and deeds of great Poles. It was precisely to them, among the various promises made by the President, that twice as much was indicated for each month of being deported or in a camp in the Soviet Union as indicated in the project presented. Please indicate why the promised amount of compensation has now been reduced and whether this is not an expression of disregard for this social group and the disrespect shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u360	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present our position on the presidential draft law on the provision of money to persons residing in 1939 and 1956 in exile or deportation in the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. The project presented by Mr Andrzej Duda, the President of the Republic of Poland, responds to numerous demands coming from the Sibirak community. In my opinion, the responsible country, which takes care of its citizens, should respond positively to these demands. Our country, in which so much importance is attached to patriotic attitudes, cannot and should never forget all those who, at least to the slightest extent, have contributed to his freedom. Although many of us fought for free Poland in the 1980s, we experienced repression and persecution for this reason, in my opinion we are not able to imagine the harm and suffering suffered by those who are on exile or deportation in the Soviet Union. How many of their brothers and sisters didn't survive transportation because they died of exhaustion, hunger, or cold? How many have died at the scene because of unimaginably difficult conditions? No amount will be sufficient compensation. And in a situation where we observe and hear that sibirates spend the last days of their life in difficult material conditions in autumn, as well as in the feeling of oblivion by the Polish state, we have a duty to change these realities as soon as possible. This bill confirms that the Homeland and we all remember them. As living in free Poland, we are obliged not only to cultivate the annual celebration of Sybirak Day, but to testify with our actions that we have not only forgotten those who died for our freedom, but also care for those who are still alive and who should be confirmed that we appreciate their courage and patriotism. This is particularly important in the context of the upcoming 80th anniversary of Soviet aggression against Poland. This date not only shows the passing of time, but, above all, that for so many years, we have not been able to finish this matter properly during the successive governments. I believe that this law on compensation for Poles staying in the years 1939 and 1956 at exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will eventually be resolved. About Free and Solidarni supports the presented project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u361	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on the provision of money to persons residing in the years 1939 to 1956 at the exile or deportation in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, contained in print No. 3037, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree of the Governor of the State on the establishment of Councils of the Commonwealth in the area of the B. Kingdom of Congress (prints No. 2990 and 3007). I ask Mr Grzegorz Puda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u362	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I present a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree of the Governor of the State on the establishment of Municipal Councils in the area of the Congress Kingdom. When in November 1918 Poland regained independence, new state bodies had to be established. One of the elements of building a reborn state was the creation of public administration, including local government institutions. This process was initiated by the chief of state of Józef Piłsudski on 27 November 1918 by a decree on the establishment of Municipal Councils in the area of the former Congress Kingdom. In 15 articles, an order was issued which provided the basis for the selection of bodies in several hundred municipalities, providing solid foundations for the newly formed state. Although the document was temporary in nature, as it was to be in force until the Sejm passed the law on local government, it contained provisions which were already largely directed by the newly formed local authorities. The Decree established municipal councils consisting of 12 members elected in secret voting by the municipal assembly. By abolishing the current office of municipal representatives, the implementation of the resolutions of the municipal councils was entrusted to the authorities. The decree also describes the minimum requirements for candidates for municipal council and council members. To stay, for example. In the village, you should be 25 years old and able to write and read in Polish. The term of operation of the Councils was adopted for 3 years. He also became chairman of the municipal council and the meetings were to be held at least once a month. Three times the unwarranted absences could have been punishable by the disfellowshipping of the council. Interestingly, the members of the municipal council in accordance with the decree were to perform their duties free of charge. The decree issued by the head of the Polish state describes the scope of the activities of the councils. The scope of the council's activities included, among others, the following: preparation of proposals, budget, management of real estate, management and supervision of municipal institutions and establishments or appointment of municipal officials. Importantly, at least once a year, the Council was obliged to report on its activities to the municipal assembly. The decree also includes who has the right to attend meetings and what bodies are set up to carry out supervision. The implementation of the Regulation was entrusted to the Minister of Home Affairs. In view of the above and given the circumstances of the issuing of the decree, the committee has given a positive opinion on the draft resolution, expressing its appreciation to the creators of the Second Republic of Poland and to all those who have taken the task of working for the reborn homeland. Following the first reading and the examination of the draft resolution at its meeting on 22 November, the committee proposes that the draft resolution be adopted by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u363	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Zieliński will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the committee draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree of the Governor of the State on the establishment of Councils of Municipalities in the area of the B. Kingdom of Congress. 1918 is not only the beginning of the struggle for borders reborn after the partitions of the Republic of Poland, but also an attempt to merge three different developing Polish lands remaining for 123 years in different geopolitical systems. The authorities of the young Polish state faced an extremely difficult task of creating a new state administration and local government institutions. The remnant of the government was a diverse administration, whose unification was in practice impossible in the short term. This situation has led to a gradual development of the territorial division of the State. The first legal act creating the new local government was signed on 27 November 1918 by the head of state of Józef Piłsudski, a decree on the creation of municipal councils in the area of the former Congress Kingdom. By decree, municipal councils were set up, consisting of a council and 12 members elected in secret voting by the municipal assembly. The right to participate in public deliberations of the Council was granted to every resident of the municipality who lived in it for at least 6 months, who was 21 years old and had Polish citizenship. Among the main tasks of the board were: preparation of proposals and budget for the municipal assembly, supervision of the implementation of the resolutions of the assembly, management of real estate and finance belonging to the municipality, control of the operation of the commune, supervision of institutions and municipal establishments. As the legislator himself pointed out, the decree was temporary and was applicable until the adoption by the future Sejm of the law on local government. However, it was formally repealed only by the Act of 23 March 1933 on a partial change in the local government system. The subsequent decrees of the head of state established and regulated the functioning of municipal and district authorities. The decree of 27 November 1918 is of exceptional importance in the history of Polish self-government. It was a legal act which had the characteristics of implementing the idea of direct democracy, thanks to which it began the functioning of the local government. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, wishing to emphasise the importance of decisions taken 100 years ago, will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u365	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I present an opinion on the Commission's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree issued by the Governor of the State on the establishment of Municipal Councils in the area of the Congress Kingdom. Our club strongly supports the draft resolution referring to the beginnings of reconstruction of the Polish local government after 123 years of partitions. Until independence was regained, the Polish government acted on the principles introduced by national legislation. Although attempts to create their own system solutions, territorial solutions were undertaken during the Four Year Sejm, by adopting the Law on Cities in April 1791, but following successive partitions it was not respected. Changes that survived in Poland for the next 100 years were decided at the Vienna Congress in 1815 when the Polish Kingdom was established with the Polish lands under the partitions, alongside the Grand Duchy of Poznań and the Krakow Republic. In the Russian partition, and thus also in the Kingdom of Poland, self-government did not exist except in rural communities introduced by the Tsar's Order in 1864. After regaining independence in 1918, the state authorities began the reconstruction of the Republic of Poland, including the local government. The most important was the unification of the system rules, because the local government was still regulated by the laws of the former possessive states on the land of independent Poland. The first step was precisely the decree of the head of state of 27 November 1918 to set up municipal councils in the area of the former Congress Kingdom, which opened the way to uniform local legislation. The concept of regulation of the territorial system was found in the Constitution of 17 March 1921. I quote: The Republic of Poland, based on the principles of a broad local government, will communicate to the representatives of the local government a wide range of legislation, especially in the field of administration, culture and farm. According to the Constitution cited, the local government was to be fully autonomous. However, these were only guidelines for future regulations, which were made in implementation of partial recommendations, only in 1933 a small local government law was passed on 23 March on a partial change in the local government system. It regulated, contrary to its name, a comprehensive and uniform organisation of the local government of the rural community, the city and the county. The provisions of this Law of 1933 also strengthened the supervision of local government [[♪ The bell ♪]] territorially, but they were very important during the interwar period. To sum up, the club supports the draft resolution and requests its adoption by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u367	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz, 15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to express my position on the draft resolution which, as it so happens, is an initiative of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, which I chair. All the more so, because this is a committee initiative. An initiative that all members of all clubs signed up to. There were no problems. Our committee agreed to this and accepted it. We thought that in a year as important and noble as the one in which the 100th anniversary of regaining independence was celebrated, it was worth to emphasize this first decree of the warden, which was the beginning of building the idea of Polish self-government, which was then continued through further decrees, laws, provisions in the Constitution. But that was the beginning. Hence, after listening to your speeches, I thank you for your commitment and for supporting all the clubs. I believe that this will be a great highlight of the role of local government in the ongoing year 2018, in which this 100th anniversary falls. Thank you all so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u369	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I present a positive attitude towards the draft resolution submitted. Not so long ago we had official, solemn celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and basically creating a state again. It is worth reminding Poles how important the local authorities played a role in this process. Of course, it was a tedious evolution that ended in 1933. Only then did we manage to create a coherent system of the whole II Republic. While local authorities existed in the German and Austrian partitions before 1918, there were no local authorities in the Russian partition areas at all. Meanwhile, the former Congression was the majority of the territory of the Second Republic, because more than 60%. The politicians of that time did even a titanic job, creating units of local self-government completely from scratch in a society that often does not know the idea of self-determination or decentralisation of power. It is worth reminding pioneers of Polish self-government, such as Mieczysław Niedziałkowski. Special memory is also due to the creators of the March Constitution, a document of great importance in the process of decentralisation of power in the Second Republic of Poland, especially Prime Minister Wincent Witos and Maciej Rataj, then Marshal of the Sejm. Although today we do not have time for detailed historical considerations, it is worth mentioning that the Polish self-government built with difficulty since 1918 was gradually degraded in the time of Sanation, after the May bombing by Piłsudski. The analogy with modern times is made by itself. After 1989, the decentralisation of the state took place in Poland. In 1999, the reform of the local government establishing this process, often called the only successful reform by Jerzy Buzek, came into force. For three years, however, we have seen the process of centralising and weakening Polish self-government. And when we adopt a resolution on honoring the spirit of self-government, it is also worth considering what self-government is and what to do to support it. Otherwise, the draft resolution will only be empty speech. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u371	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the name of the Circle of Poselski I am proud to present my position on the committee's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree issued by the Chief of State on the establishment of Councils of Municipalities in the area of the Congress Kingdom, prints No. 2990 and 3007. One of the important elements resulting from Poland's regaining independence in 1918 was the creation of public administration, including the institutions of local government. The process initiated by the head of state of Józef Piłsudski - on the basis of a decree on the establishment of municipal councils - enabled the selection of bodies in several hundred municipalities, which gave a strong basis for the formation of the state. The Circle of Modern Posel will vote in favour of this draft resolution, print no. 2990 and 3007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u373	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, the examination of item 23 of the agenda for today's sitting has been postponed until tomorrow. [[What? So this is what?]] Let me repeat that the examination of item 23 of the agenda... [[I do. The senator's not here?]] ...tonight's sitting has been postponed to tomorrow. [[There's no senator?]] I declare the meeting adjourned until 3 p.m. 6:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 39 hrs. 18 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 3082. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and certain other laws, - amending the act on combating doping in sport, - the National Debt Register, - to amend the Personal Evidence Act and certain other laws. These are printers 3059, 3060, 3067 and 3056 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the uprising of the Catholic University of Lublin, John Paul. II, print No 3083. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the uprising of the Catholic University of Lublin, John Paul II (print No. 3083). I would like to present a draft resolution of the Deputy Marshal of the Sejm, Mrs Beata Mazurek. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the uprising of the Catholic University of Lublin, John Paul II. The Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II is one of the oldest universities in Poland. The first inauguration of the academic year took place on 8 December 1918. The university's motto became the slogan of Deo et Patriae - God and Homeland. During its 100-year history, KUL became one of the most important centres of Catholic thought, influencing the shape of Polish science and culture, gaining wide recognition in Poland and abroad. In the times of the Polish People's Republic, KUL was an oasis of freedom, being the only Catholic private university from the Elbe to Vladivostok. Among his graduates and lecturers there were many people performing high state functions. The lecturers of KUL were Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, Primate of the Millennium and Cardinal Karol Wojtyla, later Pope John Paul II. Today, KUL is an open university to the civilization and scientific challenges of modern times. Next to theology, philosophy, social sciences, legal sciences and humanities, mathematical and natural sciences are developed, and students are prepared for full and responsible work for the good of the Homeland. Appreciating the achievements of the University, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will support the Catholic University of Lublin Jan Paul II in further implementation of its mission to serve the spiritual and intellectual development of the Polish nation. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u374	Thank you very much. I understand that applause proves that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the uprising of the Catholic University of John Paul II by acclamation. The formal proposal was made by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u375	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you, Marshal. Did you add anything?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u376	The Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request a recess and ask the Marshal to convene the Seniors' Convention and, in accordance with the request we have made today in writing, to consider our request to complete the agenda of this meeting of the Sejm for consideration and appointment of a committee of inquiry in the case of KNF, that is, the bank for gold. [[Applause]] I'm just gonna make one argument. Today from this place I asked the Prime Minister, who was not present, Minister Wąsik answered on his behalf, as it is with these omissions of the services on the issue: the bank for the gold, why someone from Singapore had reached Warsaw, cleaned his office, his apartment, and the CBA officers, who have only 2 km to this headquarters... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u378	Mr President, your speech cannot be included in the formal proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u379	Minister Wąsik And then he said... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the D.A.'s office is guilty. It's either the D.A. or the CBA...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u380	Thank you very much. I inform you that your speech cannot be qualified for formal applications. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna bring up the recipe. Art. Paragraph 184. 2 states that the formal proposals may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. [[Applause]] I draw your attention. Be careful to follow the rules of the Sejm. [[But I warned you, Marshal.]] [[And how? Today, there was a question in the current case.]] [[It was okay.]] Mr President, I am again telling you that you have broken the rules of the Sejm, Article. Paragraph 184. 2, which says, I remind you, that the formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Civil Code Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3006-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Civil Code Act, print No 2876. The Extraordinary Commission, after considering the only amendment tabled at second reading on 5 December, asks for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u382	Let me remind you, it's printing number 2876. The amendment proposed by the committee will be voted first. In the amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to the transitional provision. Let me remind you, the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - no one, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The whole bill. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.2876, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 420, against - no one, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Civil Code Act. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law on international agreements. Third reading. The Commission, let me remind you, is proposing that the draft Print Act No 3076 be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3076, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 3.5 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on International Agreements. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Police. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3032. The questions are raised by Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u383	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that we are proceeding with a law that talks about the benefits of police officers, from this place on behalf of a number of police officers from the country, and in particular from the Podlaskie province, I would like to ask the Minister: why. Why are policemen not currently paid to travel from their place of residence to their place of duty and delegations? They also have doubts that these measures, because they do not receive them, have not been transferred to purchase new helicopters for the Police. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Were they paid?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u384	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: What's the answer?]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3032, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 427 against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Police Act. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and the Legislative Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on disclosure of documents of State security authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3055. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 3055, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 425 against - 1.5 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on disclosure of State Security Authorities documents from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the law on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. Third reading. The Commission, I would remind you, calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report in print No 2966. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u385	Thank you. Marshal, I have a question for the Minister, Prime Minister of Gliński. Isn't it really possible to draw up a four - article bill that would be suitable for something? Is it not possible in the four-Article law to develop solutions that are compatible with the art of legislation? In this bill that you have proposed... The substantive provision to transform research institutes which Gowin does not want to become the national cultural institutions that you want Deputy Prime Minister Gliński to be the only solution, but unfortunately not in this law, Prime Minister. Really, what you touch is ruining it. It's scary. This is a blackmail situation, because, of course, if we're against it, these institutes are gonna fall, only that they're gonna fall, you knew six months ago, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Three months ago and three days ago. Why such a solution? [[Applause]] [[No knocking, no knocking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u386	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 2966, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 394 against - 23, 13 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. Third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3019. We're voting. Which one of you is... [[No, hello!]] No, I'm sorry, there's a question. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that the will of man expressed in life, concerning his person and not hurting anyone is holiness and superior good. However, it is an illusion, because it turns out that if any of us who are a patient forgets to make their medical records or health information available in life, it is also broken after death by this law. The committee's rapporteur emphasized that the bill helps medical staff... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can you keep it down a little bit? The rapporteur stressed that the Act helps medical staff, managers, families. And where's the patient in all this? Where are his rights and personal possessions? What does the ombudsman say? The rapporteur also recalls the experience of other countries. In parts of countries 100% the patient's wishes are respected, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But there are countries where only the public interest prevents it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u388	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u389	So the question arises: What is the will of each one of us worth? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u390	Thank you very much. That was a question for the committee rapporteur, wasn't it? Mr Tadeusz Dziuba is the rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed bill contains solutions which are provided for in the legal systems of many European countries and also provide for respect for the rights of patients who die. The solutions we provide in our bill protect the overriding public interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u392	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3019, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There were 293 votes against - 136, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending certain laws to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. The additional report shall be in print No 3062-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Robert Warwas to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u393	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, print No 2987. At its meeting on 5 December 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3062 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to examine two amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, recommends that the High House reject them and adopt the draft law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u394	Thank you, sir. It's the 3062 print. We will vote first on the minority proposal and the amendments. The minority proposal and the 1st amendment were tabled in Article. 7 draft law amending amendments to the law on assistance to persons entitled to alimony. In the minority proposal to Article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in a lack of scope for amendments. The question is asked by Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u395	High Izbo! Everyone sitting here thinks it's their duty to keep their children. We're no different from not paying alimony is a crime. The government has prepared good new tools to improve the collection of child support from debtors, both those which are currently owed, and those which amount to PLN 11 billion, all of us taxpayers have paid for them. We all believe that these tools will be effective, everyone, except for Law and Justice and the Government, because at the time when the maintenance fund was established, the income threshold entitles we have to use this threshold was close to 104% The lowest national, today dropped to 47%. If you do not support this proposal, the weakest link, a single parent with a child earning the lowest national income will not be able to reach [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the maintenance fund. Support this motion. Then it'll be fair and good for the children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u396	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 194 voted against - 230 and 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Ewa Lieder, near Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u397	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! This bill is necessary. There are a few things to support, but a change in the income threshold, where you can apply for a maintenance fund... It is dramatically low. You're raising it by 75 zlotys. This means that single parents still won't get a penny from the state. You save on the poorest, the most hurt, on those children who still have many consequences, health, financial consequences, that one parent resigns, does not help to raise a child. Ladies and gentlemen, the hope of these single parents is great. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We offer a raise to PLN 1000 instead of PLN 75 - PLN 275. The point is to make it a real raise...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u398	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u399	...and for specific children to get help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u400	Thank you, Member. There's no minister. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 162 voted against - 262, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mr Cornelia Wróblewska, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Minister, please put the phone down and listen to this question. Minister, please answer: Why do you exclude those who are in the most difficult situation with all your work for those in need of support? Why do you differentiate and divide children and families because of wrongly established laws, wrongly, irrationally established income criteria? How many social groups will the government harm by introducing a good bill with bad records that the PiS Members did not want to correct in committee? We were talking about single parents raising one child. A single parent who raises one child will lose today, after passing this bill, both money from 500+ and alimony from the maintenance fund. But there are other groups. Minister, an adult with a disability is going to lose a lot of money today from the maintenance fund because you raised [[♪ The bell ♪]] State social pension. Those people are gonna lose their money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u402	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u403	Please answer: How will you take care of them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u404	Thank you very much. I understand that everything is clear. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3062, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 426 against - 2 abstentions. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 3050, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 162 voted against - 265, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the motion and thus sent the bill to the committee I was talking about. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committees by 15 January 2019. We are returning to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on the rules governing the management of state property and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. Here are the questions. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the government. I wanted to ask: What is left of the special funds that you took over at the end of 2015? The minister representing the government said that another fund is being liquidated and, in return, you are creating this Act of the Capital Investment Fund. Year by year in this fund PLN 2 billion will be collected. It's extra-budget money. Please note that the manager of this fund will be the President of the Council of Ministers, and the President of the Council of Ministers may authorise the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers to carry out the tasks of this fund, i.e. one person will get extra-budgetaryally, outside the control of PLN 2 billion. Please, at the same time... Here is another question, because this money is intended to cover the cost of acquiring or taking up shares. I wanted to ask you about the last report from two days ago, the commercial television station about sky taxis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] government ministers, or of this money, may also be covered by the costs of these journeys. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u406	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very interesting print, because in this printing there are 215 pages of regulations, justifications, regulations, but there is also a table in which you specify almost 400 companies whose Treasury is a shareholder or shareholder. Therefore, I have a question: What does he do, e.g. Kombinat Budowlany Kołobrzeg Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością w ingraniczności w sprawie w Brzozówiebiu or Koronki, Spółka Akcyjna w stanowiej w stanowiej w Brzozów? Ladies and gentlemen! These companies are really almost 400. But here's the question. As far as this lawless combination is concerned, he's been bankrupt for three years. So why don't you end this bankruptcy process so that you don't just fuck up the Polish state institutionally, because the functioning of further these companies, even if they are in bankruptcy, are the costs that all Poles have to pay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u408	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, near Modernzno, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You recently voted for the PiS project on the possibility of taking over the bank's zloty. It is already in preparation to implement the idea of the Minister of Justice to introduce a law on the liability of collective entities for prohibited acts, which, beware, the state - can result in bankruptcy and seizure of the company without a decision of the court, only on the basis of the decision of the prosecutor. Is this an action to take over private companies? We have an example of taking over the bank for a dollar. For PLN 2 billion, how many companies can you take over? How many people are you able to strip off their property only through administrative decisions of law and justice officials? That's why we're demanding, we're no longer asking you to set up a KNF investigation committee to explain all the circumstances of the laws that lead to your taking over of your assets... [[But the Modern will no longer be able to identify the candidate. Because he's not...]] ... private for a penny. You can stop taking care of... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u410	Thank you. Thank you, sir. However, I would ask you here, especially Mr Meysztowicz, to ask questions in the round of questions, and these questions are understandable. Minister Jacek Sasin has the floor on this matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the questions that have been raised, I would like to say to Mr Gawlik that, first and foremost, the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs, as you probably know, was abolished at the end of 2016, together with the liquidation of the Ministry of the Treasury, and actually does not have any funds at the moment. There were no funds left, because all the funds that were there at the end of 2016 are intended to pay the commitments resulting from the agreements signed previously. This new fund, which under this bill will be created, the Capital Investment Fund, is intended to serve, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, to buy back these strategic funds for the State Treasury, for the Polish state of the company, which the state by... [[Voice from the hall: Gdańsk Shipyard.]] ...the previous twenty years you sold out. We have to get them back today, often paying more... [[Applause]] [[You don't know what you're saying.]] ...paying for them, as you sold them in an extremely irresponsible way, putting the Treasury at risk and the Polish state at risk, just as we had to buy the Polish Railways recently. [[Applause]] and other companies that you have succeeded [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sell it. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, yes, sir.]] You were selling them until the last minute. We would not have to create this type of funds if it had not been for the wrong policy of previous teams, including the Civic Platform and the PSL for the eight years preceding the last parliamentary elections. And I address Mr Meysztowicz... [[What's going on in Volome?]] ...if you wish, sir, to combine the creation of this fund with the alleged buy-out of banks for a dollar. Given the fact that in this fund, as we predict, PLN 600.700 million will be collected annually, it seems to me that there are not enough banks around the world to buy them out of this fund for one dollar. 600.700 million banks. [[You're going wide.]] I think we would indeed have to reach into other galaxies as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u412	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[The voice from the courtroom: But there is a correction, Marshal.]] [[Correct, Marshal.]] Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 3053, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 205, against 225, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the draft government law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of healthcare. The additional report shall be in print No 3068-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee an additional report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for healthcare provision. During the second reading on 5 December 2018, two amendments were tabled to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and the waiting lists for the provision of healthcare. The Health Committee at its meeting on 6 December has given a negative opinion on both amendments and recommends that the two amendments be rejected and that the draft law be adopted in accordance with print No 3017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u414	Thank you, Member. I would remind you that the committee requests that the draft Print Act No. 3068 be adopted. The amendments that have been tabled in the additional report will be put to the vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 38e added in the Corporate Income Tax Act. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Alicja Chybicka, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law concerns a very important and delicate problem, which is the health and life of all of us, especially those who are going to get sick. And the question to the Minister: Are all the healthcare providers, in the opinion of the Ministry of Health, prepared to implement smoothly e-directions? The amendments concern 10 laws. The Civic Platform Coalition - The Civic Coalition has proposed a very good amendment to include tax resources for education and accessory. Does it seem that everyone is really ready and doesn't need money for very numerous and very diverse healthcare providers, for large hospitals, for small hospitals, for individual healthcare providers? I call for this amendment to be voted on. That money is really needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u416	Minister, there was a question. There you go. Minister Janusz Cieszyński, Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u417	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, this has already been the subject of the committee's work. As I have already said, the Government of Law and Justice has allocated PLN 65 million to support medical facilities, including at least PLN 20 million next year, and in our view these are the amounts that will significantly support this effort, and with regard to the amendment that you have proposed, I would like to point out that this is an amendment which grants the entities who are taxpayers of corporate income tax, i.e. single-person medical practices, POZ doctors operating independently in rural areas - they will all not get this support. I therefore recommend, on behalf of the Government, that this amendment be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u418	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 169 voted against - 254, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 2, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 10a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u419	Minister! You have rejected the previous amendment, perhaps you will lean positively on the second amendment, which in the form of a targeted grant will allow the provider up to PLN 50 million, because the 20 million PLN you have mentioned for so many medicinal entities - you know that there are several hundred hospitals in Poland, I am not talking about other healthcare providers - this is a drop in the sea. Therefore, I call for support in implementation, because any disorder that will be in the issue of referrals, where time often determines how quickly a patient will be admitted to a healthcare provider, may affect his or her life and health. I call for a positive response to this amendment and for you to vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u420	Thank you. That wasn't a question. It was an appeal. The appeal was heard. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 172 votes against and 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Members shall ask. Member of Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! E-direction is part of the computerization of the entire health system. At least theoretically computerization is supposed to help patients, has a whole system to rebureaucratize. I therefore have a question for the Minister, and I do not expect an answer to this question today, but in writing, because we need to get acquainted. Will such activities, i.e. computerization, help patients with rare diseases for which there are no centres for adults in Poland? These patients often need to remain under the multidisciplinary care of the paediatric centre for a long time. The procedures are so designed at the moment that documentation must be provided for any hospitalisation. Therefore, I have a question again, but I ask you in writing whether this type of action will help these patients. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u422	Please. Mr Chybick, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You rejected two very good amendments. Computerisation in health care is essential. It is the government of the Civic Platform and PSL started computerization in 2011 and it is continuing. The bill presented is undoubtedly needed, hence the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the bill, but we are firmly convinced that in a few months it will be necessary to return to these amendments and implement them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u424	Thank you very much. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3068 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 430, against - 1 and abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care. We return to the review of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law, print No 3079. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is very simple, repeated by us for a few days, that is literally for two days, because this bill appeared from nowhere, drawn from a hat. What are the money to be transferred to the Reprivatization Fund? For what, exactly? I know that Mr President thinks he's responded to this a number of times, but no one has specifically said it. [[You're right!]] The question is: What are you going to reprivatise, in other words, nationalize, because we know that this means something else with you? Thank you very much. [[For $2 billion.]] The second point is 2.1 billion. For PLN 2.1 billion something will be taken from someone. What about who? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u426	There you go. This is, of course, a government project, ladies and gentlemen, so with a hat that has little in common or not at all... Minister Tomasz Robaczyński? I can't see. Thank you. [[There it is, there it is.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3079, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 253 voted against - 176 and 6 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. We would like to return to the review of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land. The additional report shall be in print No 3073-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into property rights. Today's meeting of the Joint Committees on this matter took place. The committees recommend adopting one amendment and rejecting the second amendment. We propose to reject the first amendment, the second amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - to accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u428	Please. I'm reminding you, it's print number 3073. We are voting first on the amendments presented in the report. In the first amendment to Article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. Let me remind you, the committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of this amendment, we propose a change, an extension to 3 years of the time limit by which 60% can be used in the case of the State Treasury land in the conversion of perpetual use into property. Ladies and gentlemen! This would be of great benefit to Poles, because not everyone is so skilled in the law that during such a short period of time they learn the whole procedure as well as carry it out. We ask you to support our amendment. Of course, then - depending on whether it's going to be for 4, 5 or 6 years - 50% percent, 40% and 30% Increases. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u430	Please. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 194 voted against - 236, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to add a third sentence. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 427 against - 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u431	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is another amendment of the law, which we amend once. We've already improved the courts, improved the National Property Resources, IPN. Can you start proceding and adopting not bubbles like we have at the moment, but well-designed laws? We're asking for it. As far as this bill is concerned, we support it. However, we very much ask that there be no rush at the moment with this amendment. This is too important a bill for all Poles to process over it. Yesterday was the first time she was in committee. Even legislators paid attention to the great doubts and haste in which it is adopted. You guys wanna get your buffoons fixed again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u432	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3073, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - one, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. We would like to return to the discussion of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree of the State Chief of State on the establishment of Councils of Municipalities in the area of the Congress Kingdom. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution, print No 3007. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in full from print 3007, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree issued by the Governor of the State on the establishment of Councils of Municipalities in the area of the B. Kingdom of Congress. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliament's and Immunity Affairs on the request of the Head of the West Pomeranian Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to allow the Sejm to draw criminal liability and to apply a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski (print No 3001) - vote. In connection with the statement made at the 72nd session of the Sejm by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski on the acceptance of the criminal liability of the Marshals of the Sejm pursuant to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator asked the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Messenger and the Immunity Affairs to present its opinion on the formal correctness of this statement. The Commission expressed its opinion that Stanisław Gawłowski's statement met the conditions for formal correctness. Therefore, the motion for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski has become pointless, and I will put to the vote a request for consent to the application of a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. 5 in conjunction with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 6th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm accept this proposal. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland shall not be detained or arrested without the consent of the Sejm, except in the event of him being caught in the act of the offence and if his detention is necessary to ensure the proper course of the proceedings. According to Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator Sejm agrees to the detention or arrest of Member by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the request by the Head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to agree to a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 231. The vote was 239, against 175, with 18 abstentions. I state that by an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted a resolution approving the application of a preventive measure in the form of the provisional arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski at the request of the Head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]] The formal proposal is submitted by Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u433	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition shall submit a formal request that the meeting be adjourned until noon. 20, summoning the Marshal of the Senior Convention and presenting the legal opinion that I will now pass on to the Marshal. Well, a faulty motion has just been passed, which was submitted by the head of the West Pomeranian branch of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The High House has voted on a proposal which is not feasible at the moment. This request was made by the prosecutor at the time when Mr Stanisław Gawłowski was present... he was temporarily arrested. At the moment, the House has not given its consent either to the detention of the Member or to the use of a temporary arrest against him. Why? Because the motion you voted on, [[♪ The bell ♪]] he concerned the legal situation in which Mr Gawłowski was arrested. If, on this basis, Marshal, High Izbo, law enforcement or services under the authority of Minister Brudziński were to make a detention, it would be a violation of the Constitution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] In this respect, I give the relevant legal opinion...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u434	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u435	...and once again, please, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u436	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u437	...the convening of the Senior Convention... [[Voice from the hall: They don't know what they're voting for.]] [[Voice from the room: This is a matter to settle.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u438	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u439	...invitation of the Attorney General and adjournment. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Mr. Marshal, maybe it's worth a look. Half an hour won't save us.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's take this break.]] [[But that doesn't apply to the next vote, so I don't understand why there would be a break?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u440	Ladies and gentlemen, the formal application is correct. I'll put him to the vote. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has already made its decision on this matter. A formal request for adjournment has been made and I will put this proposal to the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's up to the marshal!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 195, against - 234, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[But the Convention calls a marshal.]] Of course, the content of this proposal, the justification for the formal proposal will be communicated immediately to the Legislative Office in order to read it. But I inform the High House that the Sejm has already made its decision. [[But about what?]] May I remind you that the Seym... [[But we don't know that conclusion, Marshal.]] [[But what conclusion? A break? It's been read.]] We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation and some other laws (Prints No. 3048 and 3059). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation and some other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure considered the amendments contained in the Senate resolution. All amendments are very good, very necessary, complementary. I therefore propose that the High House adopt all four amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u442	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. In the first amendment to Article. 11b. 7 The Senate proposes to add a new wording to the introduction to the calculation. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you that this is a law addressed to poor families who want to support themselves in the thermomodernization of single-family buildings in which they live. Such poor families, there are 3.5 million inhabitants in Poland. They live in at least 1 million single-family buildings. Meanwhile, this law is addressed only to 97 thousand. poor people living only in 24,000. single-family homes - this, of course, constitutes the exclusion of other single-family and poor buildings - in addition, in only 31 cities with less than 100,000. inhabitants, the only criterion here is not air pollution, but the inclusion of these cities on the WHO list. Those places where pollution is even greater, but is not studied, where the poor also live, are not taken into account. I wanted to ask you what equality is in the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] we speak for all those poor Poles seeking this support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u444	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. In -2, against - 416, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 11c paragraph. 2 The Senate proposes the words "customer." Paragraph 1 (5) is replaced by the following: Points 2 and 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Nobody voted for them, against 422, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 11d The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 10a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. He was 1, against - 415, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 22a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes amendments to the second sentence. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of this law will be financed from the proceeds of the recycling levy, but only from 2021. Let me remind you that this recycling charge is a charge for plastic bags, which aims to force or force Poles not to use them at all. The question is: What if the Poles are eco-friendly and do not use these bags? What funds will these projects be financed from? At the same time, between 2019 and 2020 it will be redirected to this purpose, only to single-family buildings, 180 million from a fund for multi-family buildings. I would like to remind you that in those bad years to which Mr Sasin referred, i.e. in 1999 and 2014, a thermo-modernisation fund for multi-family buildings was spent PLN 2 billion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now it just seems like 20 million. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u446	Thank you very much, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was one against - 422, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on combating doping in sport (Prints No. 3049 and 3060). Mr Piotr Uściński... [[Uruski.]] ...sorry, Piotr Uruski, to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u447	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the act on combating doping in sport, print No. 3049. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 27 November 2018 the Senate resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism for consideration. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 4 December 2018, recommends the adoption of the Senate amendments set out in point 1. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u448	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that we will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the act on combating doping in sport. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the new wording of point 3 in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Amendments 2, 5 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1, 2, 5 and 6, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. It was two against 422, three stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of point 21 of Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. It was two against 423, two stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 47d paragraph. Point 2 (7) of the Senate proposes that other tasks related to it be replaced by other tasks related to them. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - no one, against - 423 has stopped 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 47 in paragraph 47. Point 2 of the Senate proposes to delete the reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - no one, against - 423, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the National Debt Register (Prints No. 3046 and 3067). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the National Debt Register Act, print No. 3046. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this resolution yesterday, recommends that the Senate's amendments be adopted, with the exception of amendments 1, 3, 21 and 24. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u450	Thank you, sir. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 The Senate proposes to delete the words unless otherwise provided for in the Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 389, against - 20, with 20 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. No, I'm sorry, he turned it down. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The amendments of Senate 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13 and 16 to 18 are legislative in nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13 and 16 to 18, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For -3, against - 406, holding 17. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Point 16 (2) of the Senate proposes amendments to point (a) of Article 16 (2) of the Senate. a paragraph. 3, lit. (b) paragraph 2. 3b and lithium d paragraph. 7a. Amendments 21 and 24 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3, 21 and 24 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 404 against - 9, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Paragraph 19e. 3a of the Act on the National Court Register The Senate proposes to include a personal signature in the provisions of the Act. Amendments 8 and 15 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is rejecting Amendments 4, 8 and 15, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. It was 3, 402 against, holding off on 21. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 7 to 12. The Senate reported it to the article. 19 amending law containing amendments to the Insolvency Law Act. In the 7th amendment to the article. 168 The Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - no one, against - 408, stopped 20. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to e.g. Article 2 370a The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. It was 4, 409 against, with 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. The Senate proposes to add in paragraph 491. Point 1a and paragraph 4. 5 give a new wording to the first sentence. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - no one, against - 410, stopped 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 101 of the Law on Restructuring The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 14th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -2, against -41, stopped 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th Amendment to the Act amending the Act on the National Court Register and some other laws, the Senate proposes inter alia. repeal the Article. 24. This amendment is linked to the 23rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 19 and 23, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. The opposition was 412, 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 20th amendment to the article. Point 158 (a) (ii) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 of the Law on judicial bailiffs The Senate proposes to add a new wording to the introduction to the calculation. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 20th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. It was 6, 403 against, with 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. The 34th Senate Law proposes to add paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 22nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - no one, against - 405, stopped 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the National Debt Register Act. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws (Prints No 3047 and 3056). I ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I was honoured to submit a report to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, print No 3047. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 27 November 2018, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 5 December 2018, requests the High Sejm to accept all four amendments of the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u452	Thank you, sir. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 12a paragraph. 3 The Act on Personal Evidence The Senate proposes that the consent of a legal guardian or curator to include a personal signature certificate in an electronic identity card layer be required for persons who have completed 13. A year old. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. One Member voted against - 428, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For no one, against--424, he's holding off on one. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 45b. The 2nd Act on the Register of Population of the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - no one, against - 425, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act amending the Law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other acts of the Senate proposes to amend the deadline referred to in this provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - no one, against - 426, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act (Print No.2520) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u453	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns the reduction of working time for workers who take care of their children up to the age of 15. I have a question for the applicant, and I ask for an answer. Mr President, please say: How will the solutions adopted in this project affect the lives of Polish families? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u454	Thank you, sir. The applicant is represented by Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. The Member wishes to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important project. He is part of the entire social policy pursued by the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, pro-family policy. Well, today we have a childish problem, we have a child's parenting problem, we have a child's care problem. This project fits in perfectly and is moving towards an increase in child care. It gives one hour more parents, one of the parents, so that they can take care of the child, so that they can have time to bring the child to kindergarten or school, so that they can have time to bring the child home, so that they can have time to study even and provide the warmth of their child's family. Therefore, today, when we observe our economic life, when parents come home very often in the late evenings, it is an amazing problem, because the child remains unattended by parents sometimes 10 and 11 hours. It's not good for raising a child and taking good care of a child. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is a project expected primarily by young parents, by young couples. Really young people expect this. They're expecting children, too. Those kids who wait a few hours for it sometimes... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And for eight years, what was it?]] ...for a parent to come and pick them up from school or kindergarten. This is needed, money is needed for children in families and we will support any such thing. [[Applause]] But the most important thing in all of this is babysitting. [[Only the employer has to pay for these hours.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, 90% Polish families claim that the most important thing for them is the child. The last hour of work - the productivity of the work is dropping rapidly. It falls because parents think they can get their children home in time, whether their children were happy in school or in kindergarten. Ladies and gentlemen! Many workplaces have already understood this, which is why different actions are organized in order to give the opportunity to work more freely for parents who need more time to take care of their children. It's not a duty. It's a possibility. It's just about taking advantage of it. I am surprised that when there is the longest working time in Poland... The longest working time in Europe is in Poland... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You have no shame!]] ...more than 3 hours is longer than in a European country, where this time is the shortest. [[Voices from the hall: Eight years.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm surprised you're protesting this today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I am surprised that, without any argument or justification, you have requested that this project be rejected. Explain yourselves to people, explain yourselves to young couples, to young parents, why you don't want to give a better chance. You always talk about how much you love your families, how you support your families, and here you don't want to sign up for this family policy. Because this family-friendly policy, ladies and gentlemen, is a maternity leave extended to 1 year. Did they bring it in? It's been introduced. Did it work? We did it. Of course, there are various protests: What about entrepreneurs? And how do we solve this? All problems can be solved. We will be faced with the fact that indeed what is also important for our country, for our economy, or the replacement of generations... This is important, too, and it fits into this family-friendly policy. The happier the family, the better the child, the better the society. Do not reject this project because Poles are waiting for it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u456	Good. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Printing Act No 2520, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 237 voted against - 175, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act (print No. 2584) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Member of the applicant. Mr. Speaker! Please tell me in what circumstances a motion for rejection has been made... [[Another one?]] ...of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You guys gonna talk later, how much can you talk on our tab?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u458	The applicant's representative is Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u459	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Mr President, I regret to inform you that we have not had the opportunity to talk about this project, and I only expected that there would be a discussion that I would be able to convince you of this project and, above all, that we would spend at least an hour on the committee, because the problem is, ladies and gentlemen, very significant. It applies to each person and so-called. On-call duty. They came to us - to the Kukiz club15 - citizens who said they had an important problem. Very often employers use this element and say to the employee who ends his job: be on the phone, stay close, be at your disposal, or at your e-mail, etc. That's what they say. An employee cannot distance himself from his place of residence, can't celebrate any birthday, name names, anything else and doesn't receive an additional salary for it. The point was to talk about it on the committee for literally an hour and find a way to address this problem. In the first version of the project, it was proposed that the time of phone calls should be paid 100%. But of course it was for discussion. Maybe it'd be worth it to pay 20%, maybe pay the equivalent of the job. I just wanted us to find a way to solve this problem. I know, among other things. Also thanks to the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition, that certain records did not like and I was open to eliminating them. I repeat all the time that we, ladies and gentlemen, are creating the law in this House. We have the possibility that we can change every comma, period, every sentence. If some of the regulations, especially regarding management staff, did not like it, we could throw it in the trash and leave only the issue of these shifts so that Poles would not simply be exploited. What's more, it wasn't even really about the money being paid for, it was about employers just telling them about this on-call call, about having to be on the phone only in situations where it's really necessary. So they don't take advantage of it. I know employees who are told to be on the phone every day for a whole month, and at the same time, including functions, let's call them executives, they don't get any extra pay for it. I wanted to discuss this, and I wanted to ask you - mostly from the governing party - not to reject this proposal, but unfortunately the motion for rejection was made even without the presence of the Member. Therefore, once again, I call on you to work one hour in the committee on this project, for nothing more. If you reject him later, you'll say he's incompetent, he's bad, he can't be fixed, so he will be. On the other hand, I ask you to try again so that we can devote at least 60 minutes to this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u460	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of a motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Printing Act No 2584, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. It was 354 against 66, with five abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. To Mr Maciej Masłowski - I suggest, Mr Masłowski, because you have presented the matter as a problem, or to report this point, for example. to the codification committee as a problem point for the work plan for next year. The committee's work plans are set by when? Until January 19th. This may indeed be the subject of discussion in the committee. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 3082). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on this? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Mr Terlecki. There you go. [[Shh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I make a formal request for a change in the way in which the vote is conducted, consisting of a separate vote on the change in the personal composition of the Committee on National Defence and a separate vote on the change of personal compositions in the other committees. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't let anyone in...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u462	I'd just like to ask for that motion. [[Mr. Chairman, the motion.]] Where is this conclusion? I'd like to request this motion. Formal conclusion. Art. Paragraph 184. Point 9. Good. This is a formal proposal for a change in the way the vote is conducted, i.e. a separate vote on the proposal to change the personal composition of the National Defence Commission. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 225 voted against - 183, with five abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on changes in the composition of the National Defence Committee. Who among you is in favour of choosing this committee by Mr Grzegorz Lipc will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[After all, this is the new Member. He's got to work somewhere.]] 422 Members voted. 173 votes against - 238 and 11 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the offer. We proceed with the vote on the full proposal of the Sejm Bureau on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 3082, excluding changes in the composition of the National Defence Committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 398, against - 9, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I declare a three-minute break and call the Senior Convention in the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 18 hours 20 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on State aid for the raising of children in 2016 and 2017 (Print No 2945) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family (Print No 2974). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swede to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on State aid to raise children in 2016 and 2017, print no. 2945. Of course, the case concerns the "Family of 500+" programme. According to this decision, after the first period of operation of the Act, i.e. from the entry into force of the Act on 1 April 2016 until 31 December, we have to present a report on the implementation of the In general, I will remind you what the objectives of this programme were. The most important and most important objective of the programme was to include as many children as possible in the three main areas as possible in education. First of all, the pronatistic scope, which is the issue of demographics. We know very well that the demographic situation in our country has been difficult, it is difficult and it will be difficult in the near future. This is one of the reasons why the 500+ family was raised as one of the key elements of the programme. It is worth recalling here that in 2015 the fertility rate was 1.29. Today, this fertility rate is 1.45, which is a clear increase in the fertility rate. In 2017, we crossed the border for the first time over 400,000. the birth of children, which is the good forecast in terms of demographic issues. Of course, this is a process that still requires financial expenditure and implementation of both the 500+ programme and other programmes on family policy. The second issue was investment in human capital, i.e. additional measures, reducing poverty among the youngest. Of course, the program involved all children in these assumptions. I will remind you that for every second, third and subsequent child up to 18 years of age this is the amount of 500 PLN without income criterion. With the first child, this income criterion is at the level of 800 PLN. A few numbers of those two years. Of course, I will not be referring to this year, because the report concerns this first period by the end of 2017. As regards the eligible, in this first period from April 2016 to September 2017 almost 4 million children were entitled. The average number of children entitled under the The number of families is 2561 thousand. These are the numbers that are worth remembering when it comes to what number of people was entitled. The number of people, the children decreased. This was due to higher incomes. I would like to remind you that during this first period we counted revenue from 2014. This also caused some people to lose from the programme due to higher incomes, with lower unemployment. As regards the issue of the number of families entitled to the first child, in the first period it was almost 1.5 million families, including 676 thousand. families with one child, or more than 600,000. families with only children also benefit from this program. We also estimate that over 220 000 have benefited from this benefit during this period. children with disabilities. Financing, because it was a very important thing. During the first period when the budget was taken over after the previous government, we received additional funds of over PLN 17 billion. This has been addressed in the first throw for the implementation of the programme. In 2017, this amount was already over PLN 23 billion. These were the additional funds that were sent directly to Polish families. On the issue of poverty, there is also clear progress in terms of the decline in the number of children living in extreme poverty. This figure has decreased from 630 thousand. in the reporting period up to 320 000, i.e. over 300,000. Also percentage of these declines are significant. As far as human capital issues are concerned, the 500+ family also had a significant impact on the dynamics of spending marriages with children. In all types of families, there has been an increase in this expenditure. The biggest increase in spending in absolute terms was recorded in recreation, culture, transport, food and housing equipment. In this case, family farm expenditure increased by 12.6% in 2016 compared to 2015. , while expenditure on clothing - by more than 17%, on education - by more than 13%, on recreation and culture - by more than 20%. It is worth noting here that between 2015 and 2017, the share of expenditure on family policy, which is also linked to the 500+ family programme, has increased from 1.78% in GDP. in 2015 to 3.11% in 2017 In absolute figures it was over PLN 40 billion. So much went to Polish families and this is this very positive element, this direct impact of financial resources on the material support of families. Today we can already talk about almost 60 billion PLN, which go to Polish families. During this period too, we have introduced changes to the 500+ family programme. As if the purpose of this first review were to address this issue. These changes include: clarification of the way in which the income from economic activities taxed in lump sums is determined, in order to eliminate cases of understatement of income in order to meet the income criterion for the first child, clarification of the rules governing the granting of an education benefit to children covered by the child care provision to alternate parents divorced, living in separation or living in separation, clarification of the rules governing the loss and obtaining of income in order to eliminate possible abuse of artificial adjustment of the occupational situation to the income criterion on the first child, clarification of the rules governing the granting of the parental benefit to single-parents, verification of compliance with the conditions for the provision of education, in particular concerning residence in Poland - the possibility of calling for personal representation in the municipality in the event of doubts as to the place of residence - harmonisation of time limits for submitting applications for family benefits for a new period with time limits for submitting applications for the provision of education and maintenance fund, changes of organisation and treatment of cases in the scope of Union coordination of social security systems, the acquisition of marszałów in the territory. voivodship tasks as well as enabling faster online submission of applications, which significantly improved the process of examining these applications. This report was also presented at the committee meeting. There was detailed information presented at that meeting. Let me just quote two more opinions on the implementation of this programme. One of the moms, the mother of six children, said: Thanks to the 500+ program more often to ask the kids if we're going to the movies, we can answer okay, we're going. Thanks to 500+ each child has additional activities and can be fully realized there. When I look for an answer to this question, which gave me 500+, I think that first of all a change of priorities, because I realized that it was very difficult for me to find free time for my family so far, because it was very important to make money. And the second opinion, Ms Joanna Krupska, President of the Big Family Association Three Plus: The last two years in Polish family policy are a big step forward for families. The 500+ programme has been very well introduced since April 2016 radically reduced the poverty of families deciding for the next child. He appreciated the unpaid work of parents who raised children. The change in the name of the ministry is not only linguistic. Over the past two years, the Ministry of Labour has become the Ministry of Family and Labour. I think that these two opinions are also fully confirmed by the surveys of the Central Statistical Office, according to which in more than 80% The programme received by the Polish society is positive. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House to adopt a report on the implementation of the educational benefit programme Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u464	Thank you, Minister. And I ask that Mrs Ursula Rusecka speak in order to present the position of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the presentation of the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on State aid for the raising of children in 2016, print No 2945, and the report of the committee is print No 2974. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent this report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration by the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2018. At its meeting on 6 November 2018, the Commission considered this report and requested its adoption by the High Sejm. High Izbo! From the article. 3 of the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children results in the obligation for the Council of Ministers to submit an annual report on the implementation of that Law to the Sejm and the Senate, in conjunction with the article. 54 (1) (a) 1 This report is submitted for the first time in this respect and covers the period from the date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. from 1 April 2016 until 31 December 2017 The Council of Ministers presented a detailed report on the implementation of the aforementioned. the law, which contains the characteristics of the 500+ family programme implemented under the State Aid Act for Child Education, a description of the main changes made during its operation and the most important statistical data on its implementation and impact on demography, poverty and professional activity. High Izbo! The Government's 500+ family programme is a historic, groundbreaking, universal system of support for Polish families, which pursues three basic objectives: the first is a pronatistic goal aimed at increasing birth rates, the second - investment in human capital, the third - reduction of poverty among children. The number of children entitled to education from April 2016 to September 2017 amounted to 3919 thousand, while in the second half of 2017 it amounted to 3740 thousand. children, accounting for 54% the number of children under the age of 18 who are covered by the service. Similarly to the period under consideration, the number of families who benefited from the scheme was 2561 thousand, respectively. Families from April to September 2017 and 2450 thousand. Families in the second half of 2017 At the same time, the programme covered 1552 thousand. families in the first half of 2017 and in the second half of 2017 1381,000. families who fulfilled the income criterion and received support for the first child, including 610 thousand. families with only children. High Izbo! About 220 grand. children with disabilities benefit from an educational allowance. The expenditure of the State budget for the implementation of the "500+' programme in 2016 amounted to 17 620 308 000. - I will remind you that it was not a full calendar year - and 23,766,789, 000. in 2017. The 500+ family programme has helped reduce extreme poverty, especially among children. According to a household budget survey, extreme poverty in 2017 was 4.3% and was lower by 0,6 percentage points than in the previous year. The main beneficiaries of poverty were single parents with children and families with many children. The fertility rate has improved. In 2016, there was an increase in birthdays of 13 thousand. children compared to the previous year, and in 2017 the magical number of 400 thousand was exceeded. Birthday... [[Why magic? What kind of magic?]] ...that's 19.7,000. children more than in the previous year. Let's remind you of what the GUS forecasts looked like. It was expected that 378 thousand would be born in 2017. children, i.e. the actual number of births was higher by 24,000. in relation to the forecasts and estimates contained in the impact assessment of the law. The fertility rate in 2015 was 1.29 and in 2017 1.45 and this is the highest value of the indicator that has been recorded since 1997. The 500+ programme results in an increase in children's fertility in terms of second and subsequent children. The problem remains the birthright. High Izbo! The 500+ family programme is an investment in Polish families, it is an investment in human capital. The programme has significantly improved internal consumption demand. There has been an increase in spending in all types of families. Most were spent on recreation, culture, transport, food and housing equipment. At the meeting of the committee during the discussion on the implementation of the Law on State aid to raise children in 2016 and 2017, the opposition as usual tried to discredit the positive effects of the programme, but the data presented, hard data, contradicts that. The right to benefit 500+ for the first child is determined solely by the income of the family. It is a universal program aimed at all families. The actions dedicated to single families can be found in other laws - the Family Benefits Act, the Maintenance Fund Act. In conclusion, I will say that caring for families and working for families is a fundamental task of the state, of every country. For the Government of Law and Justice, this is one of the priority tasks since the beginning of its operation, and the 500+ family programme is one of the main elements of the family's pro-family policy system. The Government of Law and Justice has almost doubled its expenditure in the context of family-friendly policies, which means an increase in the share of this type of government expenditure from 1,78%. GDP in 2015 to 3.11% GDP in 2017 I therefore request that the High House adopt this report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u466	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Teresa Wargocka to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the report on the implementation of the Law on State aid in raising children in the years 2016 and 2017. The Family of 500+. is a flagship programme of family policy of law and justice; the programme which was created during the 2015 election campaign and was implemented in the first 100 days of the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło; the programme which resulted from deep diagnosis and analysis of the situation, the condition of Polish families and the demographic situation of Poland, can be said the demographic collapse in which our society was found. The program is based on axiological considerations. First of all, we recognize the subjectivity of the family and the fact that the best for building human resources is a young person working in the family who can perform his care and education functions in the best way possible. I wanted to make it very clear, because there are many discussions and many, I think, misunderstandings in the political and media space concerning this programme, that the 500+ family programme is not a social policy programme. The 500+ programme is the backbone of family policies in Poland, which is why it is universal and is aimed at all families raising children - all families who raise two or three and more children and families who have one child and meet certain income ceilings. So it's a universal program. There are no income criteria for raising two or three children. Of course, the main objective of this programme was to tackle the barriers that were pointed out to us in the research. The main barrier when it comes to why families do not choose to have a second child and another child is the material barrier and uncertainty about the possibility of providing children with the right conditions for development. Today we are considering a report that summarizes over 1.5-year programme. I think that from this report it is very clear that the 500+ family programme has the intended effect that the objectives set out in this programme are being achieved. And the Minister and the Member spoke about the increase in fertility in Poland. Twenty-four thousand. more birthdays, an increase in fertility rates from 1.29 to 1.47 - that's progress. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the task will continue to be carried out for many years, because in order to achieve the level of substitution of generations, not even the development of our society and our Poles, the population, we need to have this indicator approx. 2%. [[2.11%.]] 2.1%, 2.15% . Only then can we maintain our population. The funds were allocated to children's needs. That's what the research shows us, all the information in this area. Poverty reduction is the result of this programme. It wasn't the main goal, but it's the result of this program. Ladies and gentlemen, in public space too, we are seen better as a country, because, as far as the countries of the European Union are concerned, we are leaders in the allocation of funds to family policies. In addition, this program was very, very professionally implemented. It is financial resources for local government units for service, over 2 000. decisions in the short term issued by local staff, guaranteed liquid financing and what is very desirable [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a modern society - a number of proposals, about 50% applications for payment of educational benefits submitted by the Internet, mainly by electronic banking. The law and justice, of course, will vote in favour of the report in recognition of all those who have implemented this programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u468	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u469	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Pro-family politics, I think, is very important to every government in fact. After the period of systemic transformation, it was not easy. It wasn't until 17 years later that pro-family politics moved. It started with extended maternity leave. Later it was 2008 and then, you can say, actually from scratch a new system of pro-family policy was created - a year's parental leave, a program called a nursery law, a kindergarten for gold, a subsidy for contributions, especially for mothers who were on parental leave. I can trade a lot. The 500+ programme was then developed in 2016, and work on it really started in 2015. I would like to refer, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition for this programme. More births can, of course, be related to the implementation of the 500+ programme, but also to the improvement of the situation... More births are also affected by improvements in the labour market situation, which, I recall, is very closely linked to the very good global economic situation. Furthermore, what I want to emphasize very strongly is that we have little, but nevertheless a better birth rate is related to the fact that they are actually born women from the demographic booms of the turn of the 1970s and 1980s, i.e. giving birth, colloquially speaking, to the generation of the second post-war demographic boom. We need to realise that the 500+ programme is important in terms of poverty and improving the family situation, especially for families with low income. However, for the wealthier or wealthier people who receive 500+, this amount is not more important to the household budget. This is all the more reason for them to decide to have another child. Infrastructure is more important for these people when it comes to raising children. So I can say that the 500+ programme is important when it comes to the eradication of poverty and the decision to have another child. I'd really like the 500+ program to have only the pros, but unfortunately it doesn't. Why? Firstly, the 500+ programme eliminates the help of single parents raising children, especially mothers, because they mostly raise them. The income threshold set for the first child in the amount of PLN 800 unfortunately causes a parent who raises a son, a daughter who has the income of PLN 1601 to be ineligible for this program, and the president of the Treasury company, who earns a fortune, has these 500+ for the second or the next child, and every month. The second flaw in this program - how could children with a slight disability between 16 and 18 years of age be excluded from this program without giving these families a higher income criterion? And the third point, the issue of women who have fallen out of the labour market, is what you write about in your report on page. 27, you're talking up to 76,000. Women. You're also saying 104 grand. Women really took care of the independents and therefore did not work, so maybe we had to adopt our law on helping the independents, not throw it in the basket at first reading. 5 minutes is not enough, so it is difficult to address the report in its entirety in a substantive manner. Using the last few seconds, I just want to say to you: as the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, we submitted the programme, and we tabled our bill in April 2016, which gives the chance for 500+ to be used by single parents. However, it is worth a look in this freezer and it is worth taking out and proceding it. I think this bill could be fixed in such a way that single parents can have these 500+s, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and not only those who, regardless of their income, rich or richest, have them; then this program would be a really good program. Of course, we will vote in favour of this programme because we believe that every action on the pro-family policy of each government must absolutely continue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u470	Thank you. And I invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In principle, the 500+ programme was intended to increase the fertility of Poles and improve the standard of living of families and thus restore their dignity. These objectives are undoubtedly worthy of approval, but the way in which they are implemented raises doubts. There is much evidence that this flagship programme of Law and Justice can soon lead to a decrease in birth rates. Why? Increasing prices, e.g. food, generally speaking, household bills, will eliminate this supplement, and even in many situations they will exceed it. I will quote from the report this passage: Freedom as the third determinant of family policy suggests not to be guided by it in the conduct of sexualism. The family should also be given free choice. What's it really like? On the one hand, the state is deeply drawn to the pockets of its citizens, and on the other hand, it releases a small part of their money and in it it transfers charity to its parents. Polish families, if not now, will soon realize that the government is taking more than it gives them. What about young couples who are just getting on the same path of life? At the start, they come into contact with the ubiquitous cost. How are they supposed to pay off their apartment loans and raise their first child? They don't usually have 500 zlotys, but it was the young people who were supposed to be the recipients of this program. Will their child be given a children's day trip? No. He will not receive because a good start program is not addressed to such children. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the media have widely reported that energy prices will rise dramatically since the new year. When there is any increase in its costs, it will increase the number of other expenses, and as a result the cost of living the family will increase. 500+ will then be consumed by inflation. [[What do you propose about this?]] I'd like to ask you a question from here. When will the right time come for tax cuts to leave the citizens what they themselves have worked out? When they themselves really decide what they spend hard-earned money on, they will not be able to talk about the paternalism of the state. Using the fruits of your work is a source of great satisfaction, much more than the satisfaction of the State's contribution. In addition, with this model of supporting families, i.e. by leaving them with a tax reduction fund, the substantial cost of paying part of the officials employed only for the operation of the 500+ programme will be deducted. If only those families who, for objective and undeserved reasons, are underprivileged, especially those with many children, are supported, bureaucracy will also be reduced. High Izbo! We do not raise a claim society, accustomed to relative prosperity, to a situation where, as soon as its standards are lowered, the state widens the bag with our money. Let citizens be independent. True, many families have experienced improvements in their quality of life and will enjoy it for some time. One day, however, their children will be on the verge of adulthood, and they will again be confronted with the problems faced by young people today. A claim society, accustomed to a range of patrons, will eventually go out into the street when, for reasons beyond the goodwill of the rulers, the patrons will lose value, and then they will completely end. The good economic situation does not last forever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u472	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, who will speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u473	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on State aid for the raising of children in 2016 and 2017, print No. 2945, together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, print No. 2974. Ladies and gentlemen! The 500+ project is a flagship project of this government. His idea was to promote parenthood. Did it work? He's responding to the CUS. From January to September 2018, 296 400 children were born in Poland. That's what the latest CUS data says. A year earlier, however, many more were born during the same period, because 306 100 children were born. Ladies and gentlemen! The 500+ programme, 500 PLN from the state, therefore, does not encourage Poles to expand their family. However, this does not change the fact that the programme has been successful. He was well received by our compatriots. We treat him, ladies and gentlemen, as a continuation of the policies of the pro-family government of PSL. We did it, among others. introduce the longest parental leave in Europe or provide the so-called: mower, or 1000 PLN for each - I stress: for each - a mother who does not have the right to benefits during the first year of life of the child. We're gonna continue to pay the lawnmower, extending it for another six months as soon as we rule, and we're not gonna let anyone take out this program. Ladies and gentlemen! On the issue of the 500+ programme, I would like to say that PSL, as the only opposition club, supported this project and I guarantee that after the PiS have lost the elections, we will be on the watch to ensure that no one eliminates this programme. However, there is something that could be done now, but the rulers do not want to do this because of their political malice. During the time of the PSL government, the principle of gold for gold was introduced into the benefits. This is a very simple mechanism whereby a family that exceeds the income threshold for the benefit will receive a benefit less the amount by which the threshold has been exceeded. For example, in the case of the 500+ programme, if the family exceeds the threshold by 50 PLN, it will receive a benefit of not 500 PLN and 450 PLN. Simple as a wire. Ladies and gentlemen! Today you are proud of the success of the 500+ program, but you forget that there are mistakes in this system that you have created. It is a mistake that several tens of thousands of single mothers who exceed the income criterion by several tens or even dozens of zlotys will not get the benefit. You can take the way of the spokesperson of the PiS and advise mothers to give birth to more children, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way. I remember that, at the beginning of the term of office, one of the ministers of the government of PiS allowed this possibility. He said it could be done on the occasion of a revision, after a year of operation of the programme. The audition was. The program's been running for more than a year now, and the rules of the dollar for the gold as it wasn't, it's not. We consistently want to expand the operation of the program by introducing the principle of a zloty for a zloty. This will help many families in Poland. So I'm asking the rulers for a little empathy. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also just had the opportunity to see how you approach improving, improving the lives of Polish families, because you voted to reject our project at first reading: An hour for a family according to which an employee who has children could benefit from this solution... Unfortunately, this has already been rejected. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I call for the consideration and support of the good ideas of the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u474	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder made a written statement on behalf of the Modern One. I now invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, who will act on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the State Aid Act in Child Education in 2016 and 2017. The Government of Law and Justice took care of Polish children. I hoped that apart from the total opposition of no one in Poland, it was not necessary to convince that the 500+ programme was a great success, not only for the current rulers, but also for Polish families, but the speeches of my previous speakers showed otherwise. [[Mr Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: I don't think you were listening.]] I do not want to mention the figures that are very much in the report. I'll just name one. 2 561 500 Polish families receive aid from the state each month. It was the government of the United Right that caused extreme poverty to decrease especially among children. The 500+ programme has dramatically improved the situation especially for single parents raising children and families of many children, which should be looked after and cared for by the state. On 1 April 2016, the date of introduction of the modern 500+ programme is undoubtedly the limit of a better social policy of our country. These changes in social policy allow families to build a sense of security and provide a direct incentive to have children, which, according to research, has been achieved. I know that thanks to the 500+ programme, not only children are provided with adequate food, but also many parents can finance developing childish passions and training their children so that in the future they can find themselves even better on a dynamic labour market. Therefore, the 500+ programme does not only bring tangible benefits today, but also represents a real change in the long term. It should also be stressed that, thanks to the operation of the programme, employment in the local government sector has increased on average by 1.6 jobs in each municipality. Often the Civic Coalition refers to EU standards. In this case Poland implementing the 500+ programme joined the 21 countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area offering support to families with children. I will say more: Polish witnessing in terms of its height is one of the highest in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. But you also criticize these actions. Killjoys will always complain: this is the alleged mass resignation of women from work, and that the program did not cover all children. But who, ladies and gentlemen, has given Polish children and families at least that far? Nobody. I agree with one thing: you'd want more. Unfortunately, however, such huge changes in the national budget cannot be made immediately. I am sure that the actions of the enforcement government, among others. VAT will make these measures for family-friendly activities much more in the budget over the coming years. Circle of Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the best aid programme for Polish families in democratic Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u476	Thank you very much. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? You're welcome. I will close the list once you have entered. We begin with a question from Mrs Margaret Navel. Time - one and a half minutes. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This report takes very lightly the area called the operation of the programme. It's incomprehensible at all. In January this year. I asked the Ministry what expenditure was on the service and promotion of the 500+ programme. And what did it turn out to be? The service costs of 500+ service tasks amounted to PLN 392 million in 2016 and 2017. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, almost PLN 0.5 billion. Were they spent sparingly? That's something to think about. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's not just the government, Minister. Does this amount include the purchase of cars advertising the program? How many Mercedes vehicles have they bought? Where are they now that they don't support or promote the program? Answer me that question. I also wanted to ask the second question: When will single parents finally receive 500+? This is an outrage of how these funds are spent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u478	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u479	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since I sincerely appreciate the social impact of the 500+ programme, I would like to focus on the demographic impact. The increase in births we are talking about here was 24 000 in 2017. births. The expenditure of the state budget, in terms of this result, amounted to PLN 1 million per child. It's gonna get worse this year because we're not gonna get 402,000. births, there will be 390 thousand of them. So you can see that we're off the hill. You should face the truth. A simple generation substitution would mean a birth rate of 585,000. That means we need to do some maneuvering, have a plan B on the demographic factor. This was found in the committee's report: the problem is the first child. We have been saying this for a long time: the problem is the birth of the first child. [[You haven't done anything in a long time.]] You have to think about the impulse for this first child to show up and show up early, not after a woman's 30s. So my question is about plan B, because it is clear that this demographic effect you want to achieve is too shallow and will not cause [[♪ The bell ♪]] significant change in the demographic situation of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u480	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u481	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the promotion of the program, the family of 500+.The family resort spent nearly PLN 3 million. This amount includes the purchase of air time for the broadcast of spots promoting this program, which was broadcast in the following television stations: One, Two, TVN, Polsat and Trwam Television. I would ask you to determine what amounts have been spent on the issue of spots to individual television stations and to justify this amount. One more thing that's very important to me. Why isn't 500+ revalorized? Now for these 500+ family can buy much less. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u482	Thank you. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u483	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three questions. First. Economists calculate that the family receives 500+, but as a result of increases, tax changes lose 700 PLN. So do you confirm these calculations? Were such calculations and such analyses carried out? Question two. Are you going to treat a single mother as much as the others, i.e. give her these. 500+, even if he makes more money? 800 zloty is for two people 1600. Let us not say that this is a fight against poverty. If they decide to accept these 500+s, and they often decide, because they have such a situation that this is a significant sum for them, it is a sentence to poverty or discrimination if they do not accept them. So a concrete answer: Is there a change planned or not? Because that's why we're reading this report. I think these are the two most important questions that have been repeated many times. And I would very much ask the Minister for a specific answer, not an evasive one, but a specific one. To the end. We will all be very pleased if this 500+ is a concrete help, but not a help, as I said, that one hand is given, and the other, through these various adverse price changes and taxes, it really takes more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u484	Thank you. Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition is absent. [[Applause]] Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u485	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few questions about the 500+ program. At first, I would like to say that there was no discipline in the Kukiz15 club when it comes to the whole program. I have actually voted in favour of this programme, but I have some questions about the duration of the programme. Question one. Wouldn't the introduction of a program of additional zloty for the zloty mentioned by the Members of the Polish People's Party cause that families that exceed the income criterion would get money from this program? They'd get the money then, and often they wouldn't have to try to get the money from the program. They will not have to leave work if they exceed the criterion by a pair of zlotys. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: Are we working on the introduction of a zloty for a zloty? An additional question, if any. How much will the 500+ program cost? The next question also relates to the speech by Barbara Chrobak from Kukiz15 on the increase in the tax-free amount. Wouldn't that allow families who use the program to breathe more? I'm sure there'd be more money left in the pockets of the citizens. Is work underway to increase the amount of free income and tax exemption for working women? Because, as we know very well, for this reason, that there is 500+, there is a shortage of women in the labour market. Will there be any incentive programs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Women to join, entry into the labour market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u486	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u487	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In my speech, I absolutely do not deny that the 500+ supplement is very important. Because I know a lot of families who might have come out of the financial hole. However, we should consider whether we are just raising the allowance for another child in order to encourage more children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u488	I would like to ask Minister Stanisław Swede to answer this and the previous questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u489	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion on the report. Indeed, the subject is extensive and you will allow me to group some of the questions you have asked. Maybe I'll start because you're an MP, from a demographic issue. The primary measure of demography is the fertility rate, because this is the basis. [[That's what we know, yes.]] Childhood index. If it was 1.29 and it's 1.47, then it's an increase. Isn't he here? [[It is, but it's tiny. He's a little guy.]] In three years there's an increase from 1.29 to 1.47 and you think he's tiny? [[We've already had 1.4 in a decade.]] The generation replacement rate is at the level of 2,2 that is the replacement rate. We're still a lot short. [[2, 1 is 580...]] That's what we're missing. Of course, we're aware of that. But we have to use the fertility rate because, depending on the period, reproductive strength varies. The fertility rate is this basic element... [[And he fell this year.]] He didn't fall. We're holding him. We're keeping it because we're talking about this reporting period, we're keeping it. [[No.]] So that's the first line. [[Now we know what it is.]] Of course, we all want this fertility rate to grow. We're not just talking about the 500+ program, we're talking about the whole country's family policy, because it's the key. Other elements must also influence the fertility rate. What we discussed together also concerns housing, work issues, etc., etc. The family of 500+ is one of the elements that can affect and affect the fertility rate. That's one thing. The second point is that families are single. Ladies and gentlemen, in three years for single families, i.e. single mothers or single fathers, we have increased the expenditure three times, i.e. from over PLN 2 billion to PLN 7 billion. These are the resources that went to single families. It happened in three years. If we look at the poverty rate, the biggest drop in poverty is among single families, because this support went to these families and these are facts. [[We respect that.]] Of course we can go on and we must continue to make different decisions in this regard. I will give you an example on child support in 2015 and 2017: 148 PLN for child in 2015 and 690 PLN in 2017, while with child disabled it is 181 PLN and 745 PLN. The difference is huge and this is the undeniable success of the But if we move away from politics with these programs, we can see how much this program was needed. But, of course, it is crucial, but not the only one, because if we are talking about state policy on family policy, we are also looking at GDP indicators. No one's gonna take that away from us. The GDP index for family policy today is more than 3%. We have one of the highest indicators for family policy in European countries, one of the highest. We are in the first three countries and this is a clear success of the programme. It's a matter of service. We adopted a solution that worked because the program was very well implemented. It assumes that the implementation of the programme is carried out by the local government. In order to achieve the programme well, resources were also allocated: at the beginning of the operation and implementation costs of the programme at 2% , now - 1.5%. The question is whether local governments are well spent. You have to ask the municipalities. In our opinion... We believe, I can say, that 90% of these funds are very well spent in local governments for the implementation of the programme. There was neither excess employment nor extra unnecessary employment. These programs are well implemented. And yet, in order to improve this programme, which is currently being implemented from 1 July, there is the possibility of submitting applications online and an additional extension of the period. So we're going in that direction to make it even easier. Promotion. We spent most of our promotion money from our ministry. [[For the Mercedes?]] I wish everyone would spend such minimum amounts on promotion when implementing such a comprehensive programme. [[For the Mercedes?]] Member, for what Mercedes? What are you talking about? I really... [[What do you mean, no?]] Really, really, what Mercedes? [[There were cars.]] It was simply promoted by our ministry, by our means, as I said, with minimum funding for the programme we were implementing. The honourable Member asked about the payment of the zloty for the zloty. We evaluate this solution negatively, it requires a lot of work and has little effect. We didn't introduce him to the 500+ program. There is still a discussion on this, but as I say, the information that flows, among others. from local governments that support these... They say that when you hand out a gold buck, it just doesn't work at all. That's what we eat. It is better to go in another direction and not introduce solutions that complicate the program, not make it easier. And it's kind of, I think... Maybe we can supplement the information. So that so much in general I have responded to... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: What about revalorisation, Minister?]] I can assure you, and this is what I said yesterday during the presentation of the maintenance programme, that there is no risk as regards the income criterion for next year, because the income is calculated from previous years. So if we're talking about 2019 today, we're taking income from 2018. The minimum wage on income this year is PLN 2100, so there is no risk that someone working, earns minimum wage and loses entitlement to 500+. Also today, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, on the summary of the work of our department, has assured that, in terms of the next year, i.e. 2020 and the criterion for 2019, we are starting to work to raise this criterion. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u490	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Ruseck, as rapporteur for the committee, also expressed her willingness to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the 500+ family programme is the flagship programme of Law and Justice, with which we went to the elections and implemented it because we are a credible group. The 500+ family programme fundamentally changed the situation of Polish families, took care of Polish children, took care of their decent lives. Previous governments did not have such an intense and extensive socio-demographic policy. I will refer to the words of the Member. The fertility rate is from 1.19 to 1.45 is in a year and a half... [[1.29.]] Or 1.29, yes, I'm sorry. Of course, we may have a higher fertility rate, but, sir, we had to get on with this program before, when you were in charge, really, seriously. You haven't seen the danger of demographics. How big is it... [[We've done other things. A lot, a lot.]] But not enough, but not enough. Perhaps then 2 million Poles would not leave, sir. [[There were over 400,000. births at that time.]] I would like to say that there are other programs besides the 500+ family programme: a good start to support all Polish children, families with children of school age; a programme called "Milch+" to which we have really increased funds, i.e. money has been multiplied on the basis of new places in childcare institutions under the age of 3; the Large Family Card, a group of parents entitled to this card, will extend from 2019 to all parents who have ever had at least three children; the Senior+ programmes or the 75+ care programmes. It is also worth mentioning the programs implemented or implemented by other resorts, such as: All these actions are the result of the involvement of the Polish government in solving the most important social issues, including demographic issues. Why can European countries have such programmes and Poland not? I'm not surprised by the total opposition, because she's been criticizing this program all along. I don't want to mention and quote the words of the classic: there is no money for this program and there will be no money. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, decide whether to give to each child or change or modify. There's a huge request, really don't mess with this program. This is a program, the idea of law and justice, which is being implemented. There are huge positive effects for Polish families, for Polish children. Like I said, I'm not surprised at the total opposition that wants to devalue, disgust this program. We have this at meetings of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, when you come up with different negative effects of this programme. There are definitely some negative things... [[There they are, there they ……]] ...but they're minimal. With such a powerful universal program, they are inevitable. But I'm surprised about Kukiz15. When I hear about bureaucracy, there is no Mrs Chrobak, I am very surprised because only the income thresholds will cause bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm out of government. As far as the measures for the operation of a government programme that would secure the operation of local governments are concerned, they simply were not there. The State of the Platform, from the previous ruling crew, you just cheated local governments. There was no government program that local governments wouldn't have to pay for. Finally, this programme takes seriously the local authorities that are taking on the whole issue of the operation of this programme. As far as the idea is concerned: a zloty for a zloty, then someone who did not work in a local government, technically, when calculating, is unaware of how much bureaucratic burden it causes to be charged on the basis of: a zloty for a zloty. You better think about it, value the income thresholds, while the program, the idea: the gold for the gold is missing. I'll also refer to these raises. Maybe I'll quote the price of gas. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, the price of petrol is under 5 PLN, so stop freaking out with sky-highs. Once again, I would like to stress that the 500+ family programme is a very good programme, groundbreaking and historical, which Polish families have appreciated. Finally, Polish families can live well. I would like to thank the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry, Minister Rafalska, Minister of Sweden and the entire crew who are preparing and piloting this programme, and Prime Minister Beata Szydło for introducing this programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u492	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the meeting on this proposal for amendments to the foster care law, I would like to ask whether you are coordinating situations - whether you have knowledge of them - related to decisions concerning the taking of children from children's homes by parents who remind themselves that they have children, and the only inspiration for them is the payment of 500+ benefits. Do we know the scale of this phenomenon? Are we coordinating individual situations of such families, and are children in these families safe and sound? However, are such parents particularly checked as to whether they are fit for daily care of their children?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u494	The data of the Central Statistical Office demonstrate that the 500+ programme has a very uneven impact on families at risk of poverty. In the case of single parents with children, poverty decreased by only 14%. This is little compared to families with three children, where a 48% decrease was recorded. PiS social policy discriminates against incomplete families. Legal changes both in the context of the 500+ programme are also evidence of this. For example, a mother earning PLN 1650 a month and a single parent will not receive a benefit either from the maintenance fund or from the 500+ programme, even if she lives below the poverty line. Such a person and her child fall completely out of the welfare system. Compared to 2017, the number of families receiving 500+ for the first and only child decreased significantly. The government is enthusiastic that the situation of these families is good enough that they do not need state support. Reality, however, looks completely different. Revenues slightly above 800 PLN per person in the family already cause lack of support from the state. Just talk to single parents who barely make ends meet to understand how difficult this situation is and that there is nothing to be happy about. The Central Statistical Office has noted the lowest professional activity of women in 4 years and at the same time the decline in professional activity of people aged 25 and 34 years. However, the employment rate among single parents who did not exceed the threshold and received the benefit was 69, 7% , but among parents who do not receive benefits - as much as 89%. The data speaks for itself. The rules on 500+, which PiS openly discriminates against single parents, are absolutely outrageous. They relate to receiving 500+ benefits for the second and subsequent children in the case of uncourted child support. According to the Ministry, when a person claiming to raise a child alone applies for a child's education - it does not matter whether the first or the second one should attach to the application an executive title originating in or approved by a court setting child support from another parent, unless for objective reasons this is impossible, because the second parent of the child is dead or the child's father is unknown. At the same time, no other findings of the child's parents regarding the maintenance obligation, e.g. the conclusion of a settlement may not be taken into account at all in the decision on entitlement to family benefits. Let us not forget that it is always about the welfare of children and their chances of life. As for fertility - 500+ is not a prescription for a difficult demographic situation in the country. The motherhood support system hasn't changed. The 500+ programme did not increase the number of women who decide to have their first child. Women decide to have a baby later on. Infertility is also a major problem, which is slowly becoming a civilizational disease and already affects every fourth pair. PiS activities torpedo the in vitro method. The new bill restricting the possibility of using in vitro procedures in Poland is harmful to people who face this problem. The radical ideology of Members should not affect demographic policy. Returning to the merit of my speech, the Government of Law and Justice boasts of social policy achievements, but does not notice what has been ignored for many years, i.e. the lack of real support for single parents and their children, whose start-up in life is already difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u495	The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the adoption of a report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on State aid to raise children in the years 2016 and 2017. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 6 December 2018. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members like to join us? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I invite you to make a statement by Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There isn't. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The construction of the RDF waste incineration plant in Żywiec, as the media report, arouses huge emotions. The greatest emotion in my opinion arouses in the Mayor of the Living, who, as a Member of the Sejm representing a group of residents who do not want such investments in the Living, attacks personally for defending their interests. He uses a word of hypocrisy, a lie. He seeks to discredit the role of Member of the Sejm with the statutory right to intervene on behalf of voters. I represent interested citizens, and the mayor, according to his statements, is the interest of the investor and partner for this business. I'd like to start by giving a dictionary definition of hypocrisy. It's an insincere, two-faced act or disposition. Let me remind you, first of all, that the mayor of the city's election flyers in red print indicated that there would be no incinerators in the city. I would like to remind you further that on 17 May the Żywiec authorities organized a study trip to Krakow so that the inhabitants of Żywiec and the surrounding areas could learn about such installation as a way to dispose of plastic, rubber and textiles waste. I will also remind you that two weeks ago on Radio Bielsko the mayor stated that the trip was organized only so that residents could find out which incinerator there would not be in Żywiec. That's what happened. You can totally get lost. What's to be burned in Live and Pork? Today I read in the Beskidzka Kronice and other local media that in Żywiec there will be heating plants burning - attention - biowaste. Allow me to quote a passage from the document submitted by the investor to the Environmental Directorate: The investor envisages using biomass as fuel in a quantity not exceeding 10%. I'll say it again: 10%. the total fuel mass. It will be added to RDF waste in order to reduce too high the calorie value of the fuel in the installation. Today, in his facebook message, the mayor states that he is planning to build an incinerator exclusively for biomass. Whose lies are these? I'm asking. I will quote another statement from the city's hydrator: There will be no incinerator in Żywiec, because we do not need it and there is no waste. We're not gonna bring in any fuel from outside of the food. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't have to be an expert to separate the truth from the hypocrisy. Well, in the environmental impact report for the incinerator in Żywiec in several places one of the incinerators will need more than 12 thousand. t rubbish RDF. Beskid produces only 1825 t per year. This is 2017 data. Furthermore, the documentation of this investment clearly states that delivery of this amount of waste is to be carried out by commercial vehicles and trucks, and harmful ashes will also be exported from incineration plants in containers. If the Member and the Mayor are to discuss this, then let us discuss the substantive arguments that result from the documentation for these investments, not from the spread of propaganda. There's such a vibe on the city's side due to the investment that, in my opinion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems to me that the mayor only wanted to win the election to bring the process of building the incinerator to an end. Not all inhabitants of Living and Żywiecczyn accept blindly what the mayor says to them. Many of them, including those who knew what they were doing, traced the documents. It was they who, in fear of their health, for the noise and smell of the trash truck, because of the projected fall in prices of their parcels came to me asking for intervention. Your marshal, just a second, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u497	Sekundek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u498	Burners don't want people and businesses, including potentates producing beer and spring water. Dear country, Beskid should present a business plan for the planned incineration plant in Żywiec and Świerz, because in the opinion of many these investments are aimed exclusively at economic gain and the environmental effect will be the opposite. Minister of Environment and Director-General of the Environment Directorate, I ask for a position on these investments in the context of not including them in the municipal waste management plan of the Silesian Voivodeship and, therefore, our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u499	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u500	Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u501	You're welcome, my fellow Member. In that case, I invite Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u502	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, we saw a debate on the amendment of a law restricting trade on Sundays. I was terrified to learn the statement made by Mr Jack Wilk from the Free and Effective Circle... [[Freedom.]] Free and efficient. [[Voice from the room: Freedom and Effective.]] ...who put forth such a statement. The fear of quoting it before the High House, but I must: Such union sons of bitches, who, apart from being eternal activists, often have hardly worked anywhere, help our trade, i.e. small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And let them go bourgeois on unemployment - well the union sons of bitches care about the fate of thousands of Polish Bear and their families. High Izbo! This is an extremely unusual, offensive and vulgar statement of the Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Workers, trade unionists have been insulted many times. History remembers how the workers of Poznań were referred to June 1956, December 1980 on the Coast or Ursus and Radom in 1976 or at war. It's been said about scumbags, imbeciles, imperial minions. But in free Poland we hear about us: union sons of bitches and bourgeoises. It hurts so much, Mr Wolf, that this is how you vent your dissatisfaction. I do not remember you possibly taking part in this debate on the amendment of the law, because there was an opportunity to possibly raise your objections in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, in view of the extremely vulgar statement made by Mr Wilk, I will ask the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union to make sure that the committee, taking into account the non-dignified behaviour of the Member, is, on the basis of the principles of the ethics of the European Parliament, in accordance with the article. 147, she reprimanded Mr Jack Wolf for his statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u503	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jack Wolf, Freedom and Effective. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, on this opportunity, I wanted to correct and say that my previous speaker did not understand my speech, especially with regard to these so-called ones. Bourgeois. It was about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are treated like this by trade unionists. But I wanted to get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now the year of the law restricting trade on Sundays. The tragic effects of this law are evident. But even more tragic is that they were all anticipated, and I personally predicted what the consequences of this law would be, as it would be. You have to point out a few elementary things here. First of all, the most important thing, Poles do not buy, do not shop on Sundays, because they like to spend time on Sundays, only because they are relatively poor and very busy and usually in the world do not have time a week to do these shopping. They make them on Sunday because it's the only day available to them. And they often make them in supermarkets just because there often these purchases are cheaper, you can buy more, there are promotions, advertisements, etc., etc. Secondly, High Sejm, the fact that the number of Poles purchasing in supermarkets has increased after a year of validity of the law should not surprise anyone, because if someone has to shop for 2 weeks, the more they will do it in supermarkets, because it is easier for them to shop more than in smaller shops. Thirdly, as expected, just as expected, the main costs of this trade ban were borne by small Polish companies, small Polish shops. They're supposed to be under protection, they're supposed to be better off, and it's exactly the opposite. According to the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers on the basis of their calculations and research, several thousand Polish small and medium-sized shops will fall this year because they lose their usual customers in the world. The next point, High Izbo, is that if it was really about protecting workers' rights and guaranteeing them the possibility of resting on Sunday, then the change should be to put a guarantee of at least two Sundays a month in employment law, and surprisingly even one of the trade unions made such a proposal. So this way should go - just guarantee free Sundays for employees. In the meantime, it wasn't done. As a result, some workers, very often as it turns out, have to work late on Saturdays to meet the big queues and the great demands of the increased crowds that move on Saturdays before Sundays, non-commercial Sundays to supermarkets. Therefore, High Izbo, in fact the effect of the bill is exactly the opposite to the intended, exactly the opposite. And like I said, it's tragic that all of this could be predicted, and I spoke about it myself. Sadly, this was not heard and common sense failed. Worse still, it is planned to amend this law, which has even more, so to speak, tighten the screw, which will of course do nothing, because this law will be avoided in many other ways. In order to be more interesting, this amendment does not foresee e.g. no changes in the operation of petrol stations, for example. Petrol stations are among the major beneficiaries of this law, because Poles shop at these stations massly. The revenue of the state petrol stations is growing very rapidly, which, of course, translates into the revenue of the State Treasury and maybe that's what all of this was really all about. So it's time for common sense, it's time for some rational reason in all of this. Of course, mistakes can be made, that happens, but you have to be able to admit mistakes and you have to be able to get out of them. And if you want Poles to do less shopping on Sundays and spend more time with their family, for example, you have to make their income grow, for example, by reducing their income. Horrible taxes on wages. And finally, I wanted to refer to this entry on one of the social networks. Of course, the wrong word has been used, and I've already apologized twice in public for it, including on TV, and I apologize once again, and it shouldn't have happened, and it doesn't justify anything about using such a parliamentary vocabulary, it was the first and last time. I will only say to my justification that the situation is actually very shocking, I have received a lot of letters from desperate Polish entrepreneurs who are in a tragic situation and have to really end their business, and their families are also in a tragic situation. I'm sorry again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u505	I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, in principle, we have just concluded the debate on the government report on the functioning of the Law on State Aid in Raising Children, which is what we have been talking about here about the famous 500+ programme. During this debate I tried to draw the government's attention to the fact that it did not achieve, achieve and have no prospect of achieving demographic goals in a way that would significantly change the demographic situation of Poland. I remember that when this programme was introduced, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Elżbieta Rafalska spoke about it very much, in fact the demographic objective was the most important goal that was pointed out at the moment. After 2 years of operation of the programme we know that the number of births in 2017 increased by 24 thousand, and the expenditure on this programme was equal to PLN 24 billion. This means that this effect of birth growth cost the state budget 1 million PLN. Today, the Minister presenting the report focused on social effects, support for the family. It is absolutely important to appreciate that, in this respect, the programme has achieved its objectives, and maybe even exceeded them in relation to expectations and presentations two years ago. No one's questioning that. It's not true that the opposition wants to disgust the 500+ program. The opposition wants to point out that we need to have a plan B, which will actually allow us to increase the number of births in Poland in a way that will bring us closer to the replacement rate of generations. This rate is statistically 2.11 of the child per woman giving birth. We are so distant from him that in Poland we should be born 580,000. children to achieve this indicator. We just got to 400,000. and this is only in one year, 2017, because in 2018 this number will not be reached. Therefore, it is important to consider very seriously the issue of incentives towards the family, towards women, for the first child to appear. Here's the key, and the ruling party doesn't seem to see the problem or brand it, thinking we're going to wait further, which is going to bring the 500+ program. There's nothing to wait for. We need to consider a set of solutions that will actually lead to a return, an increase in births of more than 400 000. From this point on, I would like to call on the government to actually work on solutions. To begin to take seriously all the actions that were taken under the PO-PSL coalition when there were holiday solutions, with support from the woman who is giving birth to the child. Institutional, daycare and all other solutions started to make a profit in such a way that already in 2015, so before the 500+ programme started to work, we had already had a clear improvement in the situation of families. We also had a situation when the number of children at risk of poverty started to fall very clearly, and it was a drop of 100,000. So the 500+ program wasn't a wonderful solution that just started this trend. That is not true, this trend began in 2015, when the rise in wealth, the economic growth launched by the Civic Platform, started to bring first results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u507	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition to make the last statement today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u508	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I am making an amendment to the state budget for the money for the construction of New Kielnieńska, New Walk with a tunnel near Pachołek. This is a very important investment for Gdansk. The tunnel near Pachołek in Gdansk is an investment which is intended to provide access to the inhabitants of Sopot and a large part of Gdansk to the planned metropolitan ring road and the road S6, i.e. Gdynia - Szczecin. Without the construction of the Green Road with the tunnel the historic post-Cistercian district of Oliwa awaits destruction. Today, many thousands of cars pass through the heart of the historic Olive, resulting in irreversible losses in the postcister's team and the olive park. The villagers are breaking walls with so much traffic. The cost of construction of the tunnel under the Pachołek with the entire route New Walk can reach even PLN 2 billion. This is far too much for the budget of Gdansk, which is why it is necessary to support the central budget. That is why I am submitting these amendments to the budget for central measures. The inhabitants of Gdansk, especially Osowy and Oliwa, as well as Sopot, which, I remind you, is currently no access to the ring road, and we are still waiting, hopefully, to extend this access from the street. Walking all the way to the metropolitan ring road... The inhabitants of Gdańsk, especially Osowy and Oliwa, as well as Sopot have been waiting for years for a New Walk with a tunnel near Pachołek. This road will be the only solution to daily traffic jams on the current street. Walking. It will also pass the center of the historic Olive. In 2019 the construction of the Kashubian Route, i.e. Gdynia - Great Kack - Great Godfield, will begin. The most attractive access from this road to Gdansk will be the present street. Kielnieńska running through the center of Osowa, so without the implementation of ul. New Kielnieńska bypassing Osowa inhabitants will stand in even bigger traffic than today. The construction of the Kashubian route is an excellent reason for starting the construction of the Green Road with a tunnel near Pachołek in Gdańsk, as its completion will be the completion of the project of connecting the Tricity with Słupsk, Koszalin and Szczecin. I ask you to favor the request for budget money for this important route with a tunnel near Pachołek in Gdańsk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-06-sejm-73-2.u509	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. whether Marta Golbik (more decent, because chosen from the Modern List, to the PO only passed after 1.5 years), aroused a kind of joy. It was equally grotesque to treat Mr Budko's tidings, a party activist, who was full of political transferers. I think everyone still remembers characters such as Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Radosław Sikorski, Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz and many others. But things have gone much further. In recent days, at a time when the leaders of the PO had intensive discussions with the President of the Modern, Katarzyna Lubnauer, about the establishment of a coalition opposition club, a large group of modern ones went straight to the PO. It suddenly turned out that political transfers were no longer something bad and sewn up corruption, and even a deceiving Mr Lubnauer weighs his words and avoids categoric statements. It is different when such a transfer means the loss of power by a liberal-democratic salon. Then the cry is lifted up, and well-dressed the Elite shows his true face of people full of hatred, slightly relenting even before calling for physical aggression. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 7 December 2018, at the latest by 7 December 2018 at the latest. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 53]]
