ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u1	I'm opening the Sejm. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call Mr Kubov and Mr Sobonia to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Krzysztof Kubów. I consider the minutes of the 55th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels. This is print number 2176. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission has submitted an additional report on the Government's draft budget law for 2018. This is print No 2073-A. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of authorised entities to report on current information and questions, these points will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. There are no messages. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels (Prints 2147 and 2176). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Sejm at its 55th meeting on 9 January this year. sent a government draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels, print No 2147, to the Energy and Treasury Commission and the Infrastructure Commission for consideration. Two substantive amendments were tabled at the joint meeting, which were included in the draft and a number of legislative and editorial amendments, which were also included in the draft law. The joint committees ask the High Sejm to adopt a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u3	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to invite Mr Wojciech Zubowski on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels discussed at yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure. During the discussion, a number of drafting and legislative amendments were tabled, which were adopted by the joint committees. It is also worth noting that all the amendments tabled by Members have been accepted. Let's add that they were reported by a representative of the opposition club. The substantive changes made concerned changes to the Article. 32 and 39, more specifically, introducing and including hydrogen-powered vehicles, at least in part. This also involved the need for a proper definition. During the discussion, it was underlined that there was a wide public consultation on this project and that there was a long time to prepare it, which allowed all stakeholders to express their views on this issue. During the discussion, it was also suggested that consideration should be given to the possibility of supplementing the catalogue of vehicles using the HEV hybrid vehicles mentioned in the project, which can not be loaded with so-called hybrid vehicles. sockets. However, this proposal was not accepted by any of the parliamentarians. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the proposed proposal be adopted together with the amendments accepted and made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u5	Thank you, sir. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On Monday, a draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels entered the Sejm late in the afternoon. It's just a little thing for everyone to know. I refer here to the speech by my previous speaker on how much time everyone had to learn to talk about the problems that this law contains to participate in the legal act that aims to implement certain ideas, namely the development of electromobility, the fight for clean air and sustainability, the preservation of as much as possible hydrocarbon resources. The content of this law raises a number of doubts. There are problems with the treatment of hybrid vehicles and the sharing of hybrid vehicles, and these are those that have an additional engine, and this energy is produced during the operation of the hydrocarbon-powered engine and then used under certain technical conditions. There were doubts as to how to treat hydrocarbon fuels and the whole system that concerned the development of this network, the network of equipment that would drive and provide access to hydrocarbon fuels. There are doubts as to why a local government unit, which is to meet certain requirements referred to in the Act, by introducing certain expectations, cannot benefit from all available alternative fuels, and in principle only to certain categories of fuels. There are also a number of doubts as to how these devices should be treated, which are prepared to perform the charging function of electric vehicles already existing at the time of the entry into force of the Act. Such doubts during such a short period of time have not been completely explained. The ruling majority rejected the proposal to appoint a subcommittee in order to prepare in a proper manner a legal act that could satisfy the expectations that are being made before this law. In view of the failure to meet these expectations and objectives, even though at first reading we applied for the transfer of this law to the committee and to carry out the proper work on this law, because of the failure to meet these expectations and the emergence of a number of doubts that have never been fully explained, how much will this law be able to meet the objectives for which it was intended? On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that this law be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u7	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I spoke at first reading, I spoke very carefully and with great interest. I had high expectations about the draft law on electroblicity and alternative fuels, because it is indeed a very important law, which is to implement several issues, above all it concerns modernity, development and industry, progress and innovation. Another element here is the fight against smog, because this is the fundamental goal of all actions and ideas that are born somewhere in connection with it. We really expected that we could discuss, analyze these issues, because here there is no golden idea, a golden measure. All the time, even during the initial discussion, new ideas emerged. Meanwhile, what was done with this project is really embarrassing. To discuss such a serious, so responsible project that combines and interferes with the different levels of our socio-economic life, in different structures, there are 2 days... Because this is primarily about citizens of drivers who will have to use these vehicles, about local governments, about various other institutions. We are introducing a number of new concepts that have not yet existed in public life, so it required fair analysis and discussion. With regard to the hearing of all stakeholders, and thus of the social, economic sector, this was not the case. This project was carried out at an express pace, at a meeting of two committees, without the appointment of a subcommittee. We cannot agree with this, although we support the idea because of the method of proceding, because to the end no one He couldn't explain what was in this project because it couldn't be done in such a short period of time. Let me remind you that the project entered the Sejm on January 4th. Today is January 11th. I do not think that the Members of the PIS are convinced of this either. There must be a quick deadline for the procedure, because the notification, because the European Union... Except in addition to what the Union requires of us, we are introducing things that are meant to serve our entrepreneurs, our economy, our development. There was a proposal that these matters relating to notification should be excluded and examined separately, if this has already been agreed in some way with the structures of the European Union. To sum up, the Polish People's Party is in favour of solutions that will serve the development of electromobility, but we cannot agree for technical reasons to support this project at this moment, Mr. Marshal. I have a request for your marshal to stop the proceedings because it's shocking, really. The project is good in the sense that it is necessary, but this procession rate, Mr. Marshal, this express is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u9	Thank you very much. Let me just explain to you that this is a law that brings Polish law into line with European Union law. [[But what, Marshal, are we going crazy here in the Seym?]] I agree with you, and I accept your comments, but I do consider that, under the threat of penalties that may have awaited us since 1 February, as the government has informed us and as we discussed at the meetings of the Seniors' Convention and the Sejm Bureau, I have decided that I will propose to the High House a rapid pace of work... [[What about two years, Marshal?]] ...the more that, I remind you, these terms in the Rules of Procedure, as regards the work on draft laws, we do not apply in the case of laws concerning the adaptation of Polish law to European Union law. The questions were raised by Wojciech Zubowski, the Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. You'll only need one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u10	She's gonna have to. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! ? Speaking of the words put forward here about the committee meeting, I just wanted to ask if it is true that more than 100 actors have spoken and have taken advantage of the opportunity to express themselves. Is it true that the project was addressed for consultation in April ub. R.? Is it true, Minister, that yesterday any interested person who wanted to discuss and wanted to speak during the discussion could have done so? Is it true that it was accepted 100% the proposals that have been tabled and all of them tabled by the Members of the opposition? Did that actually happen, too? Can we agree with the thesis that only a little good will was needed here, because anyone who wanted to ask details about the bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u11	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. At this point the government represents Deputy Minister of Energy Mr Michał Kurtyka. I'm asking him to speak right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for the discussion that took place both at first reading and during the committee meeting, and I thank you very much for today's vote. I would also like to thank you for the constructive discussion at the session of the Sejm committee in many places. I would like to say immediately, answering Mr Zubowski's questions, that this bill is one of the best prepared and consulted projects in the business, local and local environment. We have spent a great deal of time on its individual records being discussed in detail, so that the ideas included in the electromobility bill also come from a government strategy. Let me remind you what the sequence of events was. As regards the idea of electromobility, it was launched in June 2016 and already in September of the same year the Ministry of Energy submitted a comprehensive package of solutions, which we called the clean transport package. It consisted of both the programming documents such as the electromobility development plan and the draft laws on the low-carbon transport fund, as well as the idea of the electro-mobility law and the programming document that prepared it, i.e. directions for the development of alternative fuel infrastructure. Then we consistently implemented this plan, at every stage consulting it with a very broad group and institutions, and organizations. The electromobility development plan and the document on the direction of development of alternative fuels infrastructure, i.e. the two constitutional documents underlying the electromobility law, were adopted by the government after consultation also broadly covered in March last year. On this basis, a draft law on electromobility has been drawn up, which has been presented - yes, sir, thank you very much for this reminder - in April 2017, i.e. since April 2017 there has been a permanent consultation on this law. They were actually very wide, they reflected in a very broad and good echo. In total, more than 100 entities responded to our invitation to participate. We have received many hundreds of pages of very valuable and constructive comments, which we have consumed not only in the work within the Ministry, but also during workshops with both organisations and local authorities. I would add that the project was discussed and approved by the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. In this context, I would like to ask for a constructive approach to this draft law, to thank those drafts for the comments which have been made and which, as Mr Zubowski pointed out, were adopted during the discussion. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In fact, one request was made in the discussion - a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm not refer this bill back to the committee, but settle this motion during the vote. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Right now, I'm in charge of the time-out. 10. I'm calling the Sejm Bureau to the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 09 min. 54 hrs. 10 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. High Seym! The Group of Members submitted a proposal for the election of Mrs Beata Mazurek as Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This request is contained in print No 2180. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Election of Deputy Marshal of the Sejm (Print No 2180). Following the appointment of Mr Joachim Brudziński as Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the resignation of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, a group of Members submitted a proposal to appoint Ms Beata Mazurek as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński in order to present this candidacy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u15	I'm just asking you to keep your conversations quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Okay, here we go. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u16	I took part in the honour of recommending Mrs Beata Mazurek's candidacy for the role of Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm. Ms Beata Mazurek was born on October 19, 1967 in Ostrów Mazowiecka. [[Don't say it.]] She graduated from the High School of the Resurrection Sisters in Warsaw. In 1991 she graduated from the Catholic University of Lublin. After graduation, she also completed postgraduate studies in management in administration and local government, as well as in labour market organisation. She started her professional career in Chełma, where she worked at the city social services centre, and where she was president of the City Social Council on Disabled Persons. In 2005, she became a Member of the V Sejm. The mandate of the Member shall also be exercised in successive terms. In the current 8th term of office, the Sejm is chair of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. He is also a member of the Special Services Committee. He also takes the position of spokesperson for the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The extensive professional and parliamentary experience and outstanding organizational skills prove that Mrs Beata Mazurek is the right candidate for the role of Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u17	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on your candidacy? Nobody gets... [[Yeah, yeah, I would.]] Yes, please. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats. Time - 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I would like to speak on this issue not so much as to comment on Mrs Mazurek's candidacy, because everyone who has eyes sees what this candidacy is. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's where I'm gonna put the dot. [[Very good.]] On the other hand, the rules should be respected, and since there has been an opportunity to correct the error two years ago, you should, out of decency, propose to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to participate in the most important governing body of the Polish Parliament, which is the Sejm Bureau, instead of voting today and proposing the candidacy of the spokesperson of your parliamentary club, the person probably deserved for Law and Justice, you should propose this place to the representative of the full parliamentary club. [[Applause]] with a much longer political tradition than the one whom he had just mentioned, a Member recommending Mrs Mazurek. [[Voice from the room: Let them choke.]] Enough of state ownership, enough of PiS domination, enough of breaking your electoral obligations. [[Applause]] You talked about the democratic package, you talked about respect for the rights of the opposition in parliament. You haven't even kept a small part of your commitment. You have a chance to behave decently today. Mrs. Member! I appeal to you: resign your candidacy. [[Sit down!]] I suggest we take a three-minute break. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party would have the opportunity to propose... [[Voice from the room: New PSL President? The new club president?]] ...one of the worthy, experienced Members for the post of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. I make this proposal on behalf of the European Union of Democrats in the name of decency, in the name of principles and in the name of good cooperation in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u19	Thank you, sir. I would just like to inform the Member and the High House that the previous terms of office have been... [[Voice from the hall: Welcome to the club.]] ...that much bigger clubs didn't have their representatives at the Sejm Bureau. [[Voice from the room: Let them choke.]] [[Voice from the room: It seems you had a democracy to introduce.]] Among other things, in the fourth or fifth term, the Law and Justice Club had no representative at the Sejm Bureau. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 in conjunction with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 Rules of Procedure The Sejm shall elect the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the election of Deputy Marshal Mrs Beata Mazurek, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. The vote was 257 against - 39, with 126 abstentions. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I state that the Sejm has elected Mrs Beata Mazurek as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2176. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. It's time for questions to be asked for one minute. The questions are raised by Dr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u20	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform is not against an innovative economy, against an electromobility-based economy. We are in favour of such solutions in the economy. However, the way in which this legal act is dealt with raises a lot of doubts. Please note that this legal act appeared in the Seym on Monday, on Tuesday was the first reading, yesterday - the committee meeting, today we decide on the future of this law. My question is, why this speed, why this speed of work on this bill? My belief that this bill is excellent, as the government says, as the majority say, is not as far off as the majority's faith. Please note what the law of this House looks like at this rate. The July Act on Renewable Energy Sources generated claims for Poland today [[♪ The bell ♪]] just at the level of PLN 3 billion. In a situation where there is no time to talk, to discuss, this kind of law arises.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u22	We are against such a way of making law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u23	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Nearly 2 years ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that in 2025 a million electric cars would be driving around Poland. Nearly two years we have waited for the first regulation on this matter. At first reading, all parliamentary clubs declared their willingness to work on this document, but the willingness to work on this document was not in the PiS. You decided to push this project through yesterday within a few hours, without participation by the public, without the possibility of expressing yourself freely. To this day, there is no transcript of the committee meeting. How can you work on this document if it was put on the agenda on Monday night and you want to vote on it today? For these reasons, we are in favour of rejecting this proposal and we will vote against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u25	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u26	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask if it was true that anyone who wanted to speak at the joint committee meeting yesterday could have done so freely. Is it true that all the amendments tabled by the opposition were accepted by the committee, where the majority has the Law and Justice? And is it true that no Modern Member was involved in the work of the committee? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u27	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As for the Act on Electromobility, it is necessary to ask yourself whether the citizens' platform's application to reject it in its entirety was submitted during the first reading. No, it wasn't reported. That's not enough, at first reading, you supported the project in its entirety, and the Platform, and the Modern. Only Kukiz15 requested that this project be rejected at first reading in order to make an amendment. And the question is: Did the Civic and Modern Platform make any amendments during the committee's work? No, they didn't. In view of the fact that restrictions were also foreseen, which involved imposing a fee of PLN 30 on the citizen for entering the clean transport zones. Law and Justice have withdrawn from this. Few of this has been taken into account when creating hydrogen filling stations, and hydrogen, as we know, is also very important for farmers now. It's an obstruction. That's not enough. It's not a document carved in marble. This is a document, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which can be amended and all one thing improved in the course of implementation, because this is an innovative project. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u29	Thank you. At the moment, the Minister of Energy, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The request for this law to be rejected, justified only by the fact that it is quickly processed, points out very clearly that this law is good. That means that there was no record in this bill that could be seriously criticised. Why? Well, my fellow Members, this law is part of the law of the longest consulted society in the Sejm. [[Voice from the courtroom: But 2 days procedated.]] She on the website of the Ministry of Energy was already presented in the first half of last year. It was consulted within the Social Dialogue Council and consulted within the Tripartite Commission. And now, if we look at this - and we look at social consultation with local governments too, because it is very much about local governments - and we will refer to when it was possible to get to know this law for the first time, it will prove that you are not watching much of what the government is doing. When the rules go to the Sejm, only then do you see and see what the government does in matters of substance, in economic affairs. We work solidly, and this bill, ladies and gentlemen, was very well prepared. [[Applause]] I'd like you to pay attention to that. It's been a year. It covered all the social environments, all the associations that came forward, all the foundations even. We have considered all the proposals in order for Poland to be able to be in a group of leaders when it comes to fighting smog, taking care of clean air, making sure that our transport becomes greener. And in this case, we're taking a good step, which is why I'd like it to be noticed. It's not just that... It just so happens that as a result of various types of protests, we have been willing to make additional provisions in this bill for longer, but it is a good law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u31	There you go. With a formal conclusion, I understand, to this point? [[Yeah, to that point.]] The proposal for this point was made by Mr Piotr Misilo, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to answer the Member's question. [[But there's no answer to the question.]] Three modern Members took part in the work of this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u33	But, sir, this is not a formal proposal. I urge you to be aware, however, that we are all governed by the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the room: You too.]] High Seym! In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. Its adoption will render the committee's proposal unobtrusive. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 164 votes against - 253 and 18 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the project as a whole, the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! For the last two years we have heard in this Chamber - in the exposé of the Prime Minister we have also heard this - about the important role of local Poland, about the continuing willingness to support local Poland. Local Poland, ladies and gentlemen, has fantastically supported the so-called programme. vans, since the name of our Mr Jan Łopata, a programme to support the construction of local roads. We all know in what state these local roads are still in Poland, and in this area the previous coalition has done a lot in this program. Prime Minister, why is 300 million funds being cut for this year under this... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u35	Mr President, I am very sorry, but you are saying no. [[Voice from the room: About.]] Well, we're talking about the electromobility bill, not 300 million on roads. [[Voice from the room: As always.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to listen.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2176 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 253 against - 165, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on electromobility and alternative fuels. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft budget law for 2018 (prints 1876, 2073 and 2073-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on yesterday's multi-hour committee meeting during which proposals for rejection of the draft budget law for 2018, 130 amendments to the tabular section and one amendment to the text section were considered. After a multi-hour debate with the Minister, Vice-Ministers, with all members of the committee, I propose that the proposal to reject the draft budget law for 2018, to reject 86 amendments to the tabular part, to accept 43 amendments to the tabular part and to adopt one amendment to the text section on the date of entry into force of the budget law be rejected. One amendment tabled to the tabular part was withdrawn by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This is where I wanted to stay. For the first time, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, an amendment tabled by Members representing all the groups, namely Amendment 120, by Prof. Marian Zembal, the good spirit of this project, was adopted. And the project concerns the establishment of the Silesian Center for Clinical and Scientific Prevention and Treatment of Environmental, Civilization and Ages. Prof. Zbigniew Religion. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, it has become a very important thing - it has been successful for all the groups, which are focused under the guidance of the professor, to convince that something can be done together for projects important for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u37	Thank you. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law contained in the report in print No 2073. The Commission presents, as we have heard, also minority proposals, as well as, in an additional report, proposals to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I remind you, the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Questions are raised by Members. Member of Izabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: About.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The budget prepared by Prime Minister Morawiecki is the budget of a grasshopper. I think we all know La Fontaine's story about field horse and ants. [[Voice from the room: About.]] When ants were wrestling during the summer, the grasshopper was playing. In winter, the ants were fine, and the grasshopper was starving. Today, all countries of the European Union behave like ants, and Poland under the PiS is like a grasshopper. [[Applause]] Next year, nine EU countries will have a budget surplus and two a balanced budget. Prime Minister Morawiecki has planned 42 billion deficits. It means that not only 500+ and a reduction in the retirement age you finance from debt, lying to Poles that from sealing the tax system. Even the shooting range and the looser, the 130-person government you're financing out of debt. [[Applause]] Each Member responsible should [[♪ The bell ♪]] to vote against this budget, to reject it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u39	Thank you, Member. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The budget for the next year is a shame for Poland. A horrendously high deficit, while the majority of Europe will show a balanced budget and surplus, is the shame and humiliation of future generations who will have to pay for it. For the past two years, you've been raising taxes and planning a raise for next year as well. He didn't help you to show your budget surplus even the fact that you've received massive extra payments to the budget over the past few years, which you didn't even expect. The Prime Minister spoke in his exposé about priorities that are completely absent from this budget. Health, clean air, but also housing are practically marginalized in your expenses. Therefore, the Modern budget is unable to support this budget and none should support this budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a reasonable Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u41	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! As the long-term president of the bank, you know there are no loans that you don't have to pay back. This is the budget, another, which assumes further debt of the Polish state, debt of the budget, and thus, debt of us, of all Poles. For this reason, bearing in mind mainly this condition, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 will vote against this law because it leads to a further debt of us, all Poles. Moreover, we are also promoting the principle of a balanced budget here. We are in favour of finally entering the Polish Constitution the principle that there cannot be this deficit, because the Polish debt has already exceeded 1 trillion PLN. Prime Minister! You know there aren't any loans that needn't be repaid, and those loans will have to be repaid someday. That's why it's about protecting our children, our grandchildren, because it's questionable or even our grandchildren. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna pay off those loans we're making today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u43	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 201 voted against 236, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I propose that the Sejm agree to the technical reading of minority proposals and amendments in order to conduct the vote efficiently. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] Objection. Who said "objection"? [[Me.]] Mr Parda. Okay, there's an objection. Well, in that case, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to put this to the vote. I'd like a decision from the High House. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to read the summary description of the amendment in order to conduct the vote effectively will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 370, against - 59, with seven abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's with the... Excuse me, minority proposals... Minority requests from 1 to 121 and amendments from 1 to 55 were reported in Annex 1 containing the revenue plan of the State budget in 2018. Let's move on to the first amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u44	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! In Amendment 1, which we submit as a club of the Polish People's Party, we point out - and we would like to ask the Prime Minister, the Government and the High House to lean on it again - the issue of increasing the funding in order to regulate and improve the situation in health care. We believe that this issue is very important. Prime Minister, in response to the statements made in your exposé and given the good economic situation, the right economy, we want to - and we ask - to break this impasse and not wait for 5 and 6 years for solutions that will not work overnight. Let's break, let's do it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what we should do for our society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u45	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 165 votes against, 266, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For a few months now, there's been a protest by the resident doctors. The government doesn't care. We already have one doctor in Poland, less than the average of the European Union, per thousand. residents. Already today, some countries, if you compare all health professionals, have 400% That service for $1,000. residents that we have in Poland. The government still doesn't care. Doctors will continue to decline because it is more profitable for them to work abroad. Doctors will continue to decline because you've just reduced retirement age. You don't do anything to get your hands to work in their place, people who care about the health and life of Poles. When are you gonna start solving this country's most important problems? When are you gonna start acting like a government, responsible? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u47	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 189, against - 239, with five Members holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the third amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u48	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, the Polish People's Party last year reported a bill on the permanent allowance for pensioners and pensioners, because, Prime Minister, you left pensioners and pensioners to yourselves. The lowest valorization in many years - some received PLN 2.50. It was then explained that the lack of money in the budget, the lack of money in the ZUS, which was not true, and what later came out in the course of work on changes in the budget. That is why we are proposing to create a reserve at the moment when the Polish People's Party will submit such a proposal this year, there were resources in the state budget for the reserves, so that they can be allocated to allowances for pensioners of 500 PLN, because such a project will be submitted in the current [[♪ The bell ♪]] of the year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u49	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 193 votes against - 238 and 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the fourth amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Do you know where the city of Olesno, the city of Kluczbork is? This is Opolskie Voivodeship. Prime Minister, in these cities the work of the internists has been stopped. I have a question for you: Did you ask these people in these two cities if they really want a shooting range there, not a hospital? Do you know that surgery has been stopped in Opole in a voivodship hospital since the day before yesterday? Do you really assume that people in Opole, Rzeszów, Warsaw and Krakow prefer to have a shooting range rather than a hospital? This amendment shifts these ridiculous expenditures, such as 2.6 billion to the shooting range, to hospitals - 6.7. billions. Prime Minister, we can afford it today, and you know it. Think about it, if people really want shooters or troops. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u51	Thank you, sir. Olesko. Sobieski Castle. Only this beyond the borders of Poland. [[Bravo, Marshal!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 193 votes against - 238 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 5th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 183 voted against - 236, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the first minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 187 voted against - 237, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 6th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is important for each farm to achieve stable income, such as that which will allow the holding to function. One of the reasons for the lack of these stable incomes is the increasing natural disasters that take the crops away, causing the farmer to have nothing to sell. Over the past year, we have seen that the current natural disaster insurance system is in terrible shape. At first, farmers couldn't cover themselves. Later, when they had insurance, they had trouble getting compensation. It was very similar with the system of extraordinary compensation for those who suffered losses as a result of natural disasters. Low amount, high demands, to most farmers this aid did not reach. We propose as the Polish People's Party the creation of a disaster fund, which will allow the state budget to implement aid for farmers who are affected by natural disasters, and we propose to reserve the amount of PLN 1850 million in this budget for this year. The question to the Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgel, whether he considers it appropriate and whether it is necessary for Polish agriculture in difficult situations [[♪ The bell ♪]] He could've gotten backup. Asking the Minister to convince the members of the PiS club to support this very important amendment for Polish agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u53	Thank you, sir. It's just that I have information here that at this point the government represents the Minister of Finance and its deputy. We're going to vote, aren't we? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 193 voted against - 236, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 7th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government, or Law and Justice, assumed that it would build local roads. He assumed and promised. And how does he accomplish that? It carries out much less than the assumptions set out in the programmes adopted. Local authorities are prepared to build roads. And we want you to fulfil your obligation. In 2017, you reduced your own programme by 200 million, and in 2018 you reduced your own programme by 300 million. That's even your own prognosis you're reducing. Prime Minister, since it is so good and the local authorities are prepared to build roads, why don't you verify your opinion and take it to increase the local road construction program? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister Szydło said about her local government that it is necessary to get there, that they are...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u55	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u56	...these roads are needed. Maybe you'll be a follow-up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u58	We're offering $1,200 million for this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u59	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 186 voted against - 231, with six abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 8th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We often hear that the position of our science in the world does not satisfy us that the position of our universities is too low. There is no doubt that the underlying cause of this situation is low expenditure on these spheres. On the other hand, if we put together e.g. The amount of our investment with the number of patents, it will turn out that the effectiveness of our research is high. In such a situation, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club proposes three amendments to the budget to increase spending on science and higher education. These are Amendments 8, 18 and 34. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u61	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 189 voted against - 229, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the ninth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The programme for young people ended in 2 days. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if you know this. My club, the Civic Platform Club, proposes that one of the elements of support for young people should be the program of living for young people and its continuation. We propose to allocate PLN 1 billion for this purpose. What does the Prime Minister want to bring young people back to Poland to work here? There are support for entities that invest here, for foreign entities, but for young people there is no money. It is all the more appropriate to support this amendment that Minister Adamczyk stated yesterday that the local authorities are late with the list of land on which you intend to build in the [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a threat to this project. You're not gonna realize...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u64	...your intentions if you do not support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u65	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 187 voted against - 233, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 10th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! African swine fever has been rampant in Poland for two years. The particular severity of this disease is the past year 2017. 11,000. farms - and some say that even more - have already given up on the production of pigs, having no prospects, not knowing what to do and how to make profit. The government has not dealt with this, which has been seen very clearly in recent days, but it has also been seen in the past year, because it is already several hundred cases among wild boars, almost 1,000. cases found among wild boars, more than 100 cases found among pigs. We want to help Polish farmers, but we also want to help the Minister of Agriculture. The Polish People's Party amends its budget to reserve an additional PLN 1 billion to support, for example, veterinary services for the eradication of wild boars, but also to help farmers combat African swine fever, including bioinsurance. The request to support this amendment. This is a very good amendment, meeting the expectations of Polish farmers, helping them, while helping the Minister of Agriculture to implement this project. We are a constructive opposition, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want to help, don't disturb. Requesting support for this amendment and a clear position of the Minister for Agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u67	Thank you, sir. I don't see the Minister of Agriculture. I don't know where he is. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 191 voted against - 227, 5 Members abstained, The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 11th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Prime Minister! Why your group, why doesn't the PiS keep their promises? Ladies and gentlemen! PiS promised Poles additional funds for local roads, local roads. You promised this during the campaign, you promised it here during the debate about this failed project, which you wanted to draw out of the pockets of Poles. So? It's been two years, and there's no extra funding for local government roads, ladies and gentlemen. You lied to the Poles again. But we're a responsible party. Therefore, we will help you to fulfill your promise. [[Dude, you're gypsy.]] Modern offers an additional PLN 1 billion for self-government roads, local roads, i.e. those roads that are in our small homelands, where they should be repaired, where they are in catastrophic condition. [[In Bielsko.]] And instead of fulfilling these needs, the real needs of Poles, you are dealing with something completely different. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're helping you fulfill your promise. Support this Modern Amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u69	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 235, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 12th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the last two years, nearly 100,000 died prematurely due to bad air conditions. persons. For the Minister of Health at the time, the problem of smog was purely theoretical. A month ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that the fight for clean air would be a priority of the government, but he forgot to prepare solutions that would cause a real fight to improve air quality in Poland. Our amendment aims to allocate PLN 1 billion for the replacement of boilers. This is the first step towards improving air quality. Prime Minister! I'm counting on the support of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 235, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 13th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 193 voted against - 232, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of Amendment 14. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since the election campaign PiS has said how important it is to build apartments for young Poles, how neglected it has been by the famous last 8 years by the previous government motive building apartments for rent in Poland. In the meantime, let's see what the money intended for this purpose looks like. On 2 January, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego launched the last funds under the scheme "Accommodation for young people." In the pot was - attention - the whole 381 million PLN, which represents 19% the budget of the already famous shooting range of Minister Macierewicz. The money was expected to run out in two days, and January 4th was after the show. If you want to prove that you're in favour of building, among other things. apartments [[♪ The bell ♪]] to rent or buy apartments by young Poles, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u73	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 237, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 15th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the right side of the room! You didn't accept the previous amendment, but I understand that living for young people isn't a PiS program, it's a program of this bad change that doesn't rule anymore. But we're giving you a second chance. Now the amendment is being discussed, which is to increase the money for the living+. Prime Minister Morawiecki mami Poles 3 million apartments, which PiS promises. For this - attention - it takes 360 billion PLN, counting the average price of apartments and that they will be 40-metre apartments. A total of PLN 2100 million was allocated in the budget for the year. Even for your own contribution to the loan, Prime Minister, it's not enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u75	Thank you. This is the second amendment, it's on the apartment, yeah. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 235, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the second minority request. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. [[Mr. Marshal, I think it's a mistake.]] I have an envoy here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In that case, if you don't want to, we shall proceed to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Sixty-six votes against - 228, five Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 16th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u76	That's right now. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, in the High Sejm there is a project of the Polish People's Party eliminating a radio-television subscription. The whole House supported - including PiS - this project and is awaiting consideration. The question is, why is it so long when everyone's supporting him? On the other hand, looking at radio-television expenses, on each side the money was flowing somewhere. Today, no one can count how much money has gone. On the other hand, the Polish People's Party proposes a quick resolution of this. In order to close the radio and television subscription, money is needed. We propose that we create a reserve so that we can quickly do what is most oppressed by citizens, because 80% the public is in favour of abolishing this subscription, i.e. implementing this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need the money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u78	I'm offering PiS support for this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u79	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 176 voted against - 249, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the third minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 189 voted against - 233, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 17th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I've got the latest agricultural magazine, Top Agrar, in which it says that the new government promises to fight for agriculture. [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about?]] The situation as it is now in the Polish countryside has not been in 50 years, Prime Minister. Thousands of hectares of unraveled cereals, corn. We have to wear gumbos because he's not going into the field under any circumstances. The Minister of Agriculture asks where we're supposed to spill the manure, says we're supposed to build a biogas plant and drive to sell the manure in a biogas plant. It's a brilliant idea, but it takes three years. Farmers are not able to cover their tanks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's impossible. The industry is in decline, which has never been in Poland, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u81	Thank you, thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u82	That's why I'm asking, what do you have to do...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u83	Thank you, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u84	...so you can change it from the pages, from the download, from the sentence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u85	You're out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u86	What are we supposed to do? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u87	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 182 voted against - 242, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 18th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 193 votes against - 236, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the fourth minority request. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabowski, the Civic Platform Club. Excuse me, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It wasn't that long ago that you announced the fight against the smog. You emphasized that 48,000. Poles die prematurely because of this. The World Health Organization reports that among the 50 cities in the European Union 33 are the most threatened by smog, and 15 are mainly cities from Silesia, including Rybnik, Wodzisław, but also Żywiec and Pszczyna. Prime Minister, is this PLN 0.5 billion so much for the budget to save the lives of the Polish people? I propose that the government accept this amendment and that the Members vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u89	Thank you, sir. [[You convinced me.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. Four Members abstained in the vote in 197, against - 237. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 19th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I would like to ask if we can help the local governments. And that question is at the same time a request from me. Of course, it's local roads, and it's an investment. We know that this pillar of the economy, of our economy, is not impressive, but we also know that we have put everything that was documented from central investment. We still have documentation for local roads, and unfortunately, the program has been cut off. The municipalities are prepared, they have programs, they are on ranking lists in voivodships, so they are ready to implement, only money is missing. The 400 million we are asking for is not 1 billion or 1.2 billion, which have already been proposed by other clubs. I think we would dampen the dissatisfaction of the local authorities that prepared for these investments. At the same time, it is an investment, an important task for the economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u91	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 19 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Sixty-six votes against - 236, five Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 20th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment, High Izbo - and I ask you very much to support this amendment - which increases the budget for combating infectious diseases and mainly African swine fever. 350 million is additional money that can be used to combat infectious diseases from both the special reserve and the Veterinary Inspection, which is mainly responsible for combating infectious diseases. My appeal to the Minister of Agriculture. Minister, if you do not vote in favour of this amendment, it means that not only do you not deal with ASF, you do not yet want to fight it. And all responsibility for the spread of this disease in Poland and the elimination of pig farming will be yours. You will explain to farmers why pigs will be eradicated in Poland. Minister, I urge you to press the right color button. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u93	Of course, during the vote in the Seym, not another button. Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 20 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 198 voted against - 235, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 5th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. You didn't let me speak last year on this case, so thank you for letting me ask you this today. And I want to ask you about the shame, the shame of the piss. Shame of mismanagement, shame of hypocrisy and shame of indifference to the problems of Poles. There is such a city in Wielkopolska, Gostyn, an unhappy city, because there are two roads, one national, one voivodeship. The local government of Wielkopolska voivodship declares the construction of the ring road of this city within the voivodship road. And what did the PiS say? The PiS doesn't want to give money just to build a knot at the intersection of these two roads, to have a construction site once, once a permit, once every cost, not twice. Aren't you ashamed in the economy of Greater Poland to throw away money like that, waste it like that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u95	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 192 voted against - 236, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 21st amendment. The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment gives the Prime Minister once again the opportunity to try, however, to start fulfilling the promises he made in his exposé. We know how dramatic the health situation is. And that's not a question. Only the drama of health workers, because this drama of employees translates into the drama of patients. So let's make this first move, transfer to the beginning 300 million PLN to raises for trainees, residents and specialists. And even if the very fact that this gesture is being carried out on your part, the transfer of these funds may open the door to a good, constructive conversation with protesting health professionals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u97	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 21 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 189 voted against - 235, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 6th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 187 voted against - 233, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 22nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, the Polish People's Party is proposing amendments to serve the most deprived people who are in the most difficult situation. This amendment concerns an energy supplement. Well, this symbolic energy supplement with rising prices, with the growing material situation of Polish families, does not secure the rise in prices. I address PiS, support this amendment, show empathy. We will support your amendments if they are right. On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I declare my support for these amendments. Why do you reject all the amendments that are meant to serve the people who are in the most difficult economic situation? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[More important moms.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u99	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 22, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 195 votes against - 236, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the 23rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 23 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 192 voted against - 238 and 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 24th amendment. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Zbyszek.]] [[Voice from the room: Come on, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u100	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Go all the way.]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear Members, Prime Minister, I will address you again. Giant rainfall, heavy rains, and this is a 200 million-dollar special-purpose reserve for the modernisation of meliorative equipment. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thousands of hectares unraveled from the fields. This land will be degraded, and on the best land it doesn't go to clean up. There must be turbo, investment acceleration, even, Prime Minister, at the expense of the government deficit. Until then, whether the expenditures have been too small so far. Those were eight-ten percent outlays. It doesn't matter why the previous teams didn't do it from A to Z. It matters what it is now. I repeat once again: such a situation never existed in the Polish countryside, so that the crops could not be harvested on the best soils. Prime Minister, this is the most important, one of the most important things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the budget, I dare say: the budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u101	Thank you. [[You forgot your cards.]] [[Exactly.]] Let's move on to the vote. Let me remind you: the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 24 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 189 voted against - 236, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 25th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u102	Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, ASF, bioinsurance - 200 million. We've detected 880 wild boars with disease, 106 cases in pigs. Look at the map, kilometers, how much it takes to the Łódź region. It's not far. Today is a meeting in Skierniewice. See how many miles it is. Fear in the eyes of farmers. All the saints are already there today: from veterinarians to farmers. Lodzkie is the third producer of pork in Poland. There is still only Wielkopolska - 4 million. Prime Minister, mercy. [[Zbyszek, pity.]] Prime Minister! The CUS says 100,000 have disappeared in the last three years. livestock production holdings. Environment Minister Andrzej Necessary answers that bioinsurance is the most important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, it is not right to do so that all amendments of such caliber are rejected. The national union alarms...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u103	Thank you, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u104	A pork chop in Berlin, I think. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u105	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 25 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 191 voted against - 233, 10 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 26th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The image situation of Poland in recent years has been significantly deteriorated. The media around the world, mostly liberal, are essentially focusing on this image of Poland to deepen more and more, and there is no countermeasures on our part, in this case the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The question is: Why did you not allow an amendment that increased the public diplomacy budget at the expense of the Polish Tourism Organization, which does nothing, is only a synecur? So why do we not increase the expenditure on protecting the image of Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u107	Thank you. The next question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the replacement of our diplomatic post, the embassy in Kabul. I was a very hot opponent of closing the Polish embassy in Kabul, a Polish diplomatic institution. In Kabul, Afghanistan, there are Polish soldiers all the time. That's where the diplomatic and economic interests of many powers intertwine. Poland should have a high political representation there, which is why I appeal to all Members from all over the Sejm, as well as to many Members of Law and Justice who understand that this institution should be recreated so that it does not wait this year. I believe it is in the interest of Poland that in Afghanistan, where Polish soldiers serve, there is a high level of political representation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u109	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 26 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. There were 187 votes against, 236 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 7th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 194 voted against - 230, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 8th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 191 voted against - 232, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 9th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 234, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 10th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 197, against - 229, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 27th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 27 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 173 voted against - 250, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 11th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 192 voted against - 235, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 28th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 28 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 193 voted against - 233, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 29th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 29 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 194 voted against - 236, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 30th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the 30th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 189 voted against - 234, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the 12th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Four Members abstained in the vote 191 against - 233. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to consider 13. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 192 votes against - 230 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 14th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 233, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 15th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 227, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 16th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 195 voted against - 237, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 17th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 189 voted against - 231, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 18th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 185 voted against - 233, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 19th minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment concerns a regional issue. Warmia and Mazury is an area which is a white stain on the road map of Poland. There's never gonna be a big freeway there, a high-speed road. One of the riches of this region, along with the beautiful climate, are the railways which, thanks to God, have not been fully rolled up, but the need for rolling stock. The rolling stock, ladies and gentlemen, is actually one of the main means of transport. I ask that we support this amendment so that we can buy more rolling stock for the regional railways, and at the same time that Polish producers will have a job thanks to it. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u111	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 189 voted against - 236, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 20th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the reconstruction of road No 486 on the section Wieluń - Dzialoszyn in the Łódź Voivodeship. I have a very cordial request to the High House, and especially to Members of Law and Justice, who are from the Łódź Voivodeship, and at the same time the question: Will you support this amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u113	We'll get the answer after the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 190 voted against - 234, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 21st minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This proposal concerns a very important, trans-regional road in the Łódź Voivodeship, road No 484, Bełchatów - Kamiensk. I have such a request to the High House, and especially to Members of Law and Justice from the Łódź Voivodeship, and at the same time the question: Will you support such an important amendment for the inhabitants of the Łódź Voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u115	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 187 voted against - 237, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 22nd minority motion. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Finally.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, there it is!]] [[Voice from the hall: Music soothes customs.]] [[Voice from the room: Korci, Korci.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister often uses such a phrase - recently during the reconstruction of the government - that you are a white-red team. Words are important, but actions are even more important. It is not enough to say that sport is health, you have to create conditions for its development. This was understood by the Civic Platform, so the National Stadium and thousands of facilities were built throughout the country. This amendment concerns the sports hall for Warsaw, the multi-purpose hall, sports and entertainment hall, at the National Stadium. This area is on the board of the Ministry of Sports and Tourism. The local plan allows such an investment to be carried out. Warsaw lacks a sports hall for 20,000. people so that international tournaments can be played there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this government carry out the investment we've prepared in previous years? [[Voice from the room: 11 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u117	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 170 voted against - 246, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 23rd minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 181 voted against - 230, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 24th minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 191 voted against - 232, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 25th minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 190 voted against - 236, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 26th minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 189 voted against - 232, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 31st amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Andżelik Możjanowska, club Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Law and Justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Concerning the amendment tabled by the Modern Club. High Izbo, you can vote against with a clear conscience, because this amendment is without object. This is a guarantee of 66 million for the construction of the second stage of the Kępno ring road. High Izbo, from October 2nd this year. construction of the second stage of the Kępna ring road is underway. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The agreement was signed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Opole. It is already 3 months of implementation, design work and preparation for the ZRID, to enter the construction site. Thank you very much. Few of this, with 17 million savings, an additional link will be built. Where's 66 million from? Probably a copy error from the first stage of the Kępna ring road, because this stage is already completed and will probably be transferred to use in May. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u119	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 31 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 162 voted against - 256, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the 27th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 183 voted against - 229, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 28th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 179 voted against - 237, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 32nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 185 voted against - 227, 7 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 29th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 184 voted against - 230, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 30th minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 30th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 188 voted against - 234, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 31st minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st request of minorities would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 236, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 32nd minority request. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are asking for national roads in the regions. In this case we are talking about the bypass of the Writer, but by the way I would like to say that we are also asking for the bypasses of Olsztyn, the Good City, Szczytna and many other such investments. Why are we forced to do this? Because you have reduced investment expenditure for the implementation of the multi-annual national road construction programme by PLN 7 billion. Over the course of the year, 7 billion have evaporated from this programme. A year ago, you planned expenditure under this programme at the level of PLN 27 billion, and in the project we have only 20 billion. There is an opportunity to reflect, because these investments have a decisive impact on the quality of life in the regions. Communication accessibility is a key condition for development in Polish regions, a prerequisite for the development of our country, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u121	That's probably the eighth amendment on this. Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 32nd minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 235, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 33rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 184 votes against - 238 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 34th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 186 voted against - 233, with six abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 35th minority request. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The proposal concerns the construction of the second bridge in Jarosław. The matter is very important and very urgent. The people in Podkarpacie know this problem and even very often complain about the government's inaction in this regard. Beautiful highway, beautiful bypasses, one bridge. Mr. Marshal! The Lord in Przemyśl has three bridges, we in Jarosław have one bridge. [[Voice from the room: And I don't have one.]] I often hear: Jarosław, Jarosław. I think I'm gonna find support here today because Jarosław sounds good. [[Applause]] [[Very good.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Call for Members from Podkarpacie: support the request for a second bridge in Jarosław. It's really worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Jarosław!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u123	So we proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 226, with five Members holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 36th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 186 voted against - 229, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 37th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 187 votes against, 233 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 38th minority request. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Another one I'm checking against the white-red team. Sports facility in Warsaw, athletic stadium Skry... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...after many years of court trials, he returned to M.S. Warsaw. [[Voice from the hall: Who's in charge?]] It is an object whose reconstruction will require support from the state budget. You've got a chance. Financial decisions are needed, which is why I tabled this amendment so that you know that Poland - Warsaw - needs a modern athletic facility where the world and Europe championships can be played. You have a chance, you can vote, you can support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u125	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 185 voted against - 233, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 39th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 39th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 185, against 233, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 40th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 184 voted against - 233, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the 41st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st request from the minority, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 186 voted against - 233, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 42nd minority request. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The minority proposal 42. This is, of course, an amendment that concerns support for the region of Podlasie. It concerns support for local airport equipment, which the region itself builds from local resources. He has allocated PLN 50 million for this. This is the only region that does not have an air connection in business as well as local connections and smaller aircraft. This investment has been sought for years by the Podlaskie business, as well as investors from the East, with which the region has the greatest contacts and with which it cooperates. I request - and I ask the High House - to support the minority's request for support for airport equipment in Bialystok. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u127	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 42nd minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 181 voted against - 237, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 43rd minority request. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Another amendment, the minority proposal, is also a regional amendment concerning the construction of a sports hall in Bialystok. For 2 years nothing has happened with the construction of a sports and entertainment hall in Bialystok, which has been planned and for which funds have been allocated by the former Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Unfortunately, since Law and Justice rule our country, this investment has not moved forward. Nevertheless, I would like to stress here and tell the Prime Minister that the local government has allocated funds for this investment. The project is ready and the investment is also ready for implementation. We ask you to build this sports hall in Bialystok to move from a place to build it because it is needed [[♪ The bell ♪]] not only for the sports and cultural environment, but also for the economic environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u129	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 43rd minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 186 voted against - 240, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 44th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 182 voted against - 235, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 45th minority request. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The minority proposal concerns financial support for the construction of the S19 road in the section Białystok - Siemiatycze with the Bypasses of Bielsko Podlaski and Siemiatycze. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of Law and Justice very often from this speaker emphasizes that the S19 is a strategic road connecting north to south, but I would like to point out that in the national road and highway construction plan this section, from Bialystok to Siemiatycz, is omitted. Of course, there are sections in the Lublin and Podkarpackie voivodships. As inhabitants and Members of the Podlaskie Voivodship, we request support for this amendment so that the section of the road S19 Białystok - Siemiatycze along with the bypasses is also included in the construction plan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] such an important road, crucial for the Podlaskie voivodship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u131	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 182 voted against - 237, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 46th minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the reconstruction of road No. 473 in the section Przesatów - Łask in the Łódź Voivodeship, in the district of grace. I have a question for the High House, in particular for Members of the Law and Justice of the Łódź Voivodeship. Will you support an amendment that important to the inhabitants of the Łódź Voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We will support.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u133	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 46th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 180 voted against - 238 and 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 47th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th minority request will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 182 voted against - 227, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 48th minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The regional amendment on Warmia and Mazury again. We know there are no roads... But we have voivodship roads that should be safe. The route of the Voivodeship road No 600, the section of Mrągowo - Szczytno, the cities known to you throughout Poland, is the route most commonly used from the southern and Warsaw directions. It is not only the way for the voivodship, it is the way for Poland and for Poles. It's about safety. Ladies and gentlemen, think of the safety of our citizens. Support this amendment. It's worth spending 40 million on modernising the road, that's money for life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u135	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 185 voted against - 234, with six abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 49th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 185, against - 230, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 50th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u136	Prime Minister, the government of which you were Deputy Prime Minister has declared the construction of a channel by 2022 by the Vistula Land. The same government accepted five investments in the port of Elbląskie in the regional contract for Warmia-Mazury voivodship. However, neither in the budget of last year nor in the current budget is there any gold for port investments in Elbląg. Prime Minister, I ask you why build... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!...]] ...a canal through the Vistula mine if you don't upgrade the port? It's like building a freeway without going down. I would ask you to reflect and spend your money at least on documentation of the first of the most important projects - the entrance to the port of Elbląg. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u137	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 190 voted against - 231, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 51st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 177 voted against - 234, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 52nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 52nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 185 voted against - 230 and 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 53rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 186 voted against - 234, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 54th minority request. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u138	Right, Mr. Marshal, we have to fight because nothing for the Carpathian. Jarosław's gone. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] ...so maybe something for the land of Lubachowa. The highway was built, and it is good that it was built, in the days of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, because today it would not have been created. Anyway, one of the ministers said this highway was redundant. But it was left behind... and these actions indicate that this thesis is being confirmed. The land of Lubachowska remains without a decent connection to this highway, the whole region, so please support this amendment. I would like to say once again to the Members of the PIS: support this amendment, because this concerns Podkarpacie, our region. Jarosław's gone, he's gone, I'll get over it. [[Applause]] Don't leave us all these cases, because we're gonna have to sort this out later. [[Voice from the room: We know, we know.]] These are serious things, so help us out. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: I think it's in the commune.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u139	Jarosław's not gone. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: But that's a long time ago.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 54th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 189 voted against - 233, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 55th minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the reconstruction of road No 785 in the Łódź Voivodeship in Radomszczańskie County, in the section Ryżałowice - Maluszyn. And I have a question for the High House, and in particular for Members of the Law and Justice of the Łódź Voivodeship: Will you support this very important draft amendment for the inhabitants of the Łódź Voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u141	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 55th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 183, against 235, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 56th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 182 voted against - 231, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 57th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 57th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 184 voted against - 228, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 33rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 186 voted against - 229, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 58th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 58th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 183 voted against - 235, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 34th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 182 voted against - 234, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 35th amendment. The question is asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u142	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear fellow Members! Also Members of the Law and Justice of the Podlaskie Voivodeship! I would like to call on you, as a fellow citizen of this region, to support the budgetary amendments I have proposed. The current government policy emphasizes the construction of a central airport to be located between Warsaw and Łódź. Such a location distanced the Białystoks and inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodeship from the possibility of traveling. Białystok, however, decided to invest in the construction of the runway in order to gradually, as far as possible financially, seek to build a local airport and then a regional airport, so as not to repeat Radom's mistakes, for which having an airport became a budget burden. I also believe that thanks to the expansion of the Białystok Airport, the Podlaskie Voivodeship will gain greater attention of tourists from Poland and abroad, as well as the attractiveness of these areas will increase. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u143	Thank you. I remind you, the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 35, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 178 voted against - 234, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 36th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment I tabled to the budget implies funding for the northern part of the Bypass of Białystok along the S19 road. This would certainly improve both internal communication in Bialystok, so that residents would reach their workplaces more quickly and external communication, because Bialystok is the largest city in eastern Poland where important transport routes are intersecting to the Baltic countries, Belarus, Russia and southern Europe. Besides, the S19 route is in government priorities for the coming years. So if the S19 route is finally built, this bypass is essential for Bialystok. Please support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u145	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 182 voted against - 235, 6 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 59th minority request. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Another sport opportunity and another opportunity for you to support an investment in Warsaw's sport. There is no indoor skating track in Poland. [[How's it gone? He's here.]] That's the kind of track that could arise... [[He's here, he's not. In Tomaszów.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...in Warsaw, Tor Łyżwiarski Stegna. The aim of this amendment is to cover the track and modernise it. It will serve training, training of athletes, preparation of national staff. The whole concept of modernization of the Stegna skating track was prepared with the participation of sports unions. The capital can build a winter sports center, an Olympic training center. In this case all documents are prepared, the investment begins. There's a chance the Minister of Sport can back it up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why isn't the Platform building?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u147	Thank you. As for the track, this is at least one covered track. [[Voice from the room: Of course it is.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] But there is an amendment, ma'am, which we must vote on in the form of a minority motion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 59th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 179 voted against - 242, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 60th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 60th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 186 voted against - 233, with six abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the 61st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 61st request from the minority, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 185, against 228, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 62nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 62nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 185 voted against - 238 and 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 63rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 182 voted against - 217, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 64th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 64th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 188, against - 239, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 65th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 65th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 180 voted against - 235, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the 66th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 66th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 189 voted against - 237, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 67th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 67th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 183 voted against - 241, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 68th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 68th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 186 voted against - 236, 8 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to 69. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 69. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 238 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 70th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 70th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 191 votes against - 237, 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 71st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 71st minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 186 voted against - 239, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 72nd minority request. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment concerns section S8 from Białystok to Augustów. We know that the S8 road on the Warsaw - Białystok section is an express road. Unfortunately, on the section Białystok - Augustów it will not be an express road, it can only be modernised and renovated. This amendment is intended to support the modernisation of this section. I would like to tell you that the S8 is for Podlasie, in particular for Suwałkizna, which has a rich natural heritage, important due to transit domestic and international transport. It's about international transport, because a lot of trucks are coming from Pribaltyka, Belarus towards central and western Poland. I would also like to stress that [[♪ The bell ♪]] the volume of this transport is almost 10,000. Tire daily. Please consider this amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u149	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u150	...accepting her and supporting this investment concerning S8 in the section of Białystok - Augustów. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u151	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 72nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 187 voted against - 237, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 73rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 73rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 187 voted against - 232, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 37th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 188, against - 231, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 74th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 74th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 184 voted against - 231, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 75th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 75th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 188 voted against - 233, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 76th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I kindly ask and ask on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to lean on the issue of creating a special reserve to support the financing of the Mausoleum of Martyrology of Polish Villages in Michniów in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. Mikhniów is a symbol, Mikhniów is a story. And I appeal here especially to Prime Minister Gliński to find these small amounts to support this unit, which is a testimony of the history, struggle and moral, physical, material martyrdom of the Polish village. After all, in this Michniów we meet regardless of political options at meetings commemorating the anniversary of this great tragedy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u153	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Culture Jarosław Sellin will speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u154	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Observe closely the government's decisions on issues like the one you signaled, because we have contracted European funds exactly for this museum. I was at this museum over a year ago at a ceremony. I know how important this is for the history of resistance of the Polish village during World War II. There are very serious European measures contracted at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage for this museum. This museum will be completed and there will be no need to use the state budget for this. Watch carefully the decisions that are made in the government. [[Applause]] [[They don't read.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u155	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 76th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 187 voted against - 237, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 77th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 77th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 185, against 227, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 38th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 38, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 184 voted against - 236, 7 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 78th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 78th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 187 voted against - 236, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 79th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 79th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 183, against - 232, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 80th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 80th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 182 voted against - 238 and 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 81st minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the extension of road No. 481 in the Łódź Voivodeship: Łask - Widoradz transition through Pruszków in the district of grace. I have a question and at the same time a request to you, ladies and gentlemen of Members, especially from the Law and Justice, from the war. Łódź, the question is whether you will support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u157	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 81st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 189 voted against - 238 and 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 82nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 82nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 183 voted against - 230 and 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 39th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 185 voted against - 240, 6 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 40th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 189 voted against - 238 and 6 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 41st amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 41st amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 236, with six abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 83rd minority request. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish society is getting old. Prime Minister Morawiecki also spoke about it in his exposé. We have prepared the government's agenda for older people's activities. Fortunately, the PiS government continues this programme, but the funds written there are not sufficient for active citizenship of older people. Therefore, we propose to set up a special reserve to create a fund to support the development of municipal senior councils. Although we have created a legal basis for such consultative, initiative and advisory councils to be established, these councils were created only in 15% Polish municipalities. This fund will encourage through financial support, through the creation of the possibility of a grant system to support the development of municipal senior councils, i.e. to enable seniors to co-decision [[♪ The bell ♪]] about their local communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u159	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 83rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 187 votes against - 239, 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 84th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 84th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 185 voted against - 239, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 85th minority request. The question will be asked by Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The minority proposal obviously concerns the Podlaskie voivodship, and in particular the continuation of the implementation of a large project, the construction of a connection, the Warsaw - Tallinn railway corridor called Rail Baltica, the Baltic Railway. I would very much like to draw attention to this and ask all of you for your support, the allocation of funds for the Ełk - Suwałki section - border crossing in Trakiszki. This investment is carried out by European funds, Connecting Europe. On the other hand, we know that the Ełk - Suwałki - Trakiszka section lacks financial resources and there may be problems with the deadlines for the implementation of this project. These are strategic investments for Podlasie, which will increase the attractiveness and safety of travel, as well as economic opportunities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in particular North-East Podlasie, Suwałkizna. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u161	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 85th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 188, against 235, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 86th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 86th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 187 votes against, 233 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 87th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 87th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 185 voted against - 231, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 88th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 88th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 192 votes against - 237, 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 89th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 89th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 186 voted against - 238 and 8 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 90th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 90th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 185 voted against - 230 and 8 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 91st minority request. The question will be asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Warmia and Mazury, two beautiful cities, Write, Ruciane-Nida, cities known to sailors, tourists, towns known on the route of the great Masurian lakes, but at the same time have two stations which today scare and are no added value when it comes to building an even development of eastern Poland. I ask for the support of the amendment, which aims to modernise these stations, which will serve citizens rather than constant and frighten travellers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u163	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 91st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 191 voted against - 235, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 92nd minority request. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister Morawiecki! Prime Minister Gowin! The point is whether Rzeszów and the University of Rzeszów will have their chance. For 8 years, the Civic Platform and PSL have built this university. They took care of him. In 2015, the Civic Platform and PSL government launched a medical course. What's missing from the university right now? He's missing a clinical hospital. For two years, the Law and Justice government has done nothing. Please support this amendment. This is important in the context of scientific development. This is important in the context of medical training. This is important to Rzeszow himself. For Prime Minister Morawiecki, there is an invitation to the university because the Prime Minister visits so often [[♪ The bell ♪]] Exhibition and Congress Centre. That's when the Civic Platform decided it was the center of the uprising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u165	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 92nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 189, against - 234, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 93rd minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You need your votes to help the city of Ketrzyn. Kętrzyn needs to complete the modernization of the city stadium. This is the amount of PLN 10 million. It is said that sport is health, and all of us want our young people and citizens to be able to develop and play sports as well. Please support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u167	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 93rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 185 voted against - 240, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 94th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 94th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 179 voted against - 235, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 42nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, due to the amount from the point of view of the entire budget, is relatively small, because for the time being 8 million PLN, is a symbolic amendment. And it's a scholarship program for students from other countries. Poland used to run such programs. Many countries are currently running such programmes. The idea is to invite students to Poland to study so that they will be friends of Poland after their studies in Poland. Usually, people like that keep good memories. They return to their countries, become ministers, entrepreneurs and continue to show a good approach to the country in which they studied. If we want a good image of Poland, we should support this amendment and we should implement this project. I have also spoken to many of the Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in Law and Justice. They thought it was a good project. This amendment is also a hint to the government, how the functioning of the Polish National Foundation should be used, including. to grant such scholarships. If not this amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let the Polish National Foundation handle this type of program. He will be good from the point of view of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u169	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 42 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 175 votes against, 252 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 95th minority request. Whoever's in favour of the 95th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 180, against - 231, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 96th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 96th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 187 votes against, 236 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 43rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 43 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 185 voted against - 237, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 44th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 44, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 232, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 97th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 97th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 176 against - 230, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 98th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 98th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 183 voted against - 237, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 99th minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 99th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 187 voted against - 229, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 100th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen and Members is in favour of the 100th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 185 voted against - 234, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 45th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 45, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 186 voted against - 240, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 46th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of the 46th amendment, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 175 voted against - 245, with 17. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 101st minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Olsztyn, the capital of Warmia, needs your votes today to build a sports hall. 5 million PLN. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u171	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 101st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 236, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 102nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 102nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 71 voted against - 352, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 103rd minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Szczytno, a beautiful village of Mazurska, there is no bypass. The whole heavy transport is actually passing through town. This is felt by the residents, during the season tourists feel it, you feel it when you go to Mazury. Please support the request for a ring road for Szczytno. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u173	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 103rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 186 voted against - 238, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 104th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 104th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 187 voted against - 234, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 105th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 105th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 190 votes against - 237, 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 106th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On December 21st, the Prime Minister and his ministers came to Katowice, to the provincial office. You played the raccoon, left a set of sewn pn cards. The programme for Silesia. On p. 89 you wrote down: Package for medium-sized cities, additional funding opportunities for 37 cities from the Silesian Voivodeship. You just forgot to indicate the amount of money you're willing to give. In this amendment, Prime Minister, I am giving you the chance to grant 5 million PLN for the construction, the modernisation of the railway in the 8 km section in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, the city of 90 thousand, which until today is the only one in Poland that does not have a passenger connection. We're hauling millions of tons of coal. The current president has prepared a concept... [[What have you guys been doing for eight years?]] ...said to the Ministry of Infrastructure, [[♪ The bell ♪]] transferred to the PKP. I appeal for PLN 5 million for this investment. [[Applause]] [[You've been in charge for eight years.]] [[You convinced me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u175	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 106th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 188 voted against - 235, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 107th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 107th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 187 voted against - 235, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 47th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 47 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 186 voted against - 234, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 108th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 108th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 182 voted against - 233, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 109th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 109th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 191 voted against - 236, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 110th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 110th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 234, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 111th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 111th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 186 voted against - 225, 10 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 48th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 48 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 191 voted against - 229, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 49th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of Amendment 49, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 187 voted against - 229, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 50th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 50th amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 238, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 112th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 112th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 190 voted against - 231, 8 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 113th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 113th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 184 voted against - 238, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 114th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 114th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 178 voted against - 235, with 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 115th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 115th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 184 voted against - 241, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 51st amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 51 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 185 voted against - 239, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 52nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 52nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 188 voted against - 237, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 53rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of Amendment 53, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 190 votes against - 237, 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 54th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 54 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 190 votes against - 236, 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 55th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 55, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 236, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 116th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 116th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 192 votes against - 239, 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 117th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of the 117th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 189 voted against - 236, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 118th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 118th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 188, against 238, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 119th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 119th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 236, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 120th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 120th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 159 voted against - 234, with 39 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 121st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 121st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 174 voted against - 230, 29 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests 122 to 273 and amendments 56 to 125 were submitted to Annex 2 containing a plan for state budget expenditure in 2018. We are moving to the conclusion of the 122nd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 122nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 192 voted against - 235, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 123rd minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Coming to the great Masurian lakes, you pass the Bishop and very often the hospital in Biskupiec is where life, life of tourists and residents is saved. The hospital today requires repair and modernization of the operating block, intensive care. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for help in the form of money that saves not only the inhabitants of Bishop, but also tourists who come to Warmia and Mazury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u177	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 123rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 189 voted against - 234, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 56th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The amendment concerns the allocation of 15 million to educational activities in the prevention and prosecution of violence against women and children. When statistics are scary, laws are not effective, and the law is not perfect, it is NGOs, especially women's organisations, that are the link that gives support and help to the injured, molested, beaten women and children. Meanwhile, Prime Minister, the government has stopped funding the Blue Line telephone clinic for victims of crime in the family, has not granted the funds of the Women's Rights Centre and has also had the temptation to denounce the anti-violence convention. Now is the time to fix it and get to work and work. Please accept the Civic Platform amendment. We must begin to implement the records, Prime Minister, of the anti-violence convention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u179	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Name changes.]] This isn't a mistake? He's quitting, all right. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 56, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 179 voted against - 239, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the 124th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 124th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 186 voted against - 237, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 125th minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Who is in favour of the 125th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 188 voted against - 237, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 126th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 126th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 192 votes against - 240, 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 57th amendment. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I'd like to ask you about the Ombudsman's budget. This is another year for Members of the Law and Justice, with the approval of the Minister of Finance, unfortunately, drastically reducing the ombudsman's budget to a level that does not guarantee all tasks. In 2016, the budget was reduced - attention - to 2011 levels and last year - to 2012 levels. In 2012, while the Sejm imposed additional tasks on the Ombudsman in the form of the introduction of an emergency complaint by the institution. I appeal to Members of the Law and Justice to increase the proposed amount of 6 million [[♪ The bell ♪]] the Ombudsman's budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u181	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 57, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 175 voted against - 247, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 58th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 58, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 379, against - 37, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the 127th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 127th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 178 voted against - 240, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I'm declaring a time-out. 14. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 01 hours 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 min 14 ……]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda. I ask Members to take their seats. Please take your seats quicker, ladies and gentlemen. Well, no, no jumps, but, because we're going over the 128th minority motion... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 128th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 381 Members voted. 159 voted against - 218, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 129th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 129th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 378 Members voted. 165 votes against - 210, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to 130. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favor of the 130. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. 170 voted against - 224, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to 131. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of 131. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 389 Members voted. 165 votes against, 221 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to 132. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of 132. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 169 voted against - 233, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to 133. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of the 133rd. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 173 voted against - 232, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to 134. a minority proposal. There's a question. The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Częstochowa Voivodeship is a flagship election promise of PiS Members from Częstochowa and its surroundings. Minister Brudziński! You have the only chance to convince the Czestochowanie that the reconstruction of the government is not a replacement of the uncle's ax for a stick. 1 million for public consultation on the establishment of the Częstochowa voivodship. [[With the capital in Szczecin.]] Your predecessor said you weren't going to set up a voivodship in this term. But Czestochowan isn't interested in another term, because, first of all, you'll be gone. [[Joy in the Chamber]] and secondly, the funds from the new financial perspective will already be distributed. Therefore, Minister Brudziński, courage, Częstochowa awaits your decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u183	Some will not be, but Częstochowa will be. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 134. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 129 voted against - 272, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to 135. a minority proposal. There's a question. Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a small amount, 400 000. PLN for technical documentation of the Łęczyca ring road in the Łódź voivodship. It is an extremely important investment for inhabitants of Łęczyca, Łęczycki County and Łódź Voivodeship. Hence my request, appeal and at the same time the question, especially to Members of the Law and Justice of the Łódź Voivodeship: Will you support this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u185	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 135. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 180 voted against - 235, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to 136. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of the 136th. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 171 voted against - 235, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 59th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 59th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 179 voted against - 234, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the review of Amendment 60. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the past two years, I have been asking the committee, as well as the budget process, to increase expenditure on the Sołecki fund. For several years now, these expenditures have been insufficient and, in accordance with the 2014 Act, an adjustment mechanism must be applied which prevents the full use of these funds for the municipalities of our country. Let's make sure that every penny the uncle puts into the Sołecki fund meets with a zloty from the state budget. It's really not a big expense, it's not a big amount on a budget scale, but on a community scale, local communities are priceless money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u187	Thank you very much. It is about creating a new position in part 83. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 60, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 180, against - 241, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 61st amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister Glinski! Prime Minister Gowin! This amendment talks about an increase of 30 million for the development of readership. The National Library prepares a report every year on the state of reading in Poland for a given year. In the current report, i.e. for 2016, says that 63% of Polish society did not read a single book in 2016. The same number of people, 63% society, hasn't read a single book in the last four years. [[That's right. Exactly.]] There is not a single book in 41 households in Poland. Only one in three Poles reaches for a book once a year. According to the National Library report, even longer press articles have fewer and fewer recipients - only 46% of the survey participants read the text contained on at least three pages of the manuscript. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would very much ask you to lean...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u189	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u190	...on increasing the amount for reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u191	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 61, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 183 voted against - 234, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of Amendment 62. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 62, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 389 against - 11, 26 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Another volume. We're moving on to 137. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of the 137th. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 185 voted against - 235, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to 138. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of 138? Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 184 voted against - 236, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to 139. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of the 139th. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 181 voted against - 239, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 140th minority request. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Someone has to claim the region. Jarosław, Przemyśl is a very important city in Podkarpacie. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You've rejected these amendments, I'm sorry, we'll have to wait two years. However, there is an amendment which I tabled on behalf of the inhabitants of the district of Oliczycko-Sędziszowski. It's about a hospital in the Magistrates. The Starosta is having a lot of trouble providing the right standards in this hospital. Anyway, there's trouble with the board too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The people of this county - and there the governor is from PiS, not from PSL, only from PiS - have asked me for support, for additional funds to expand the hospital, so I ask the Members of Podkarpacie to support this request. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Mietek!]] [[But such homage to Jaroslaw...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u193	Of course, this is about the support of the hospital in Magistrate Małopolska. [[Voice from the room: That's exactly what this is about.]] Yes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 140th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 185 voted against - 239, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 141st minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a very important investment. Namely, it is about the renovation of the oldest monument in the Łódź voivodeship, the Piast cottage in Tum near Łęczyca, the seat of Polish rulers - lives I, Bolesław Chrobrego, Bolesław Krzywoustego and his sons. The castle in Tum in the early Piasts was periodically the capital of Poland, especially during the reign of Bolesław Krzywoust, as mentioned in his chronicle Gall Anonymous. The statement that Tum is one of the historical capitals of Poland is not exaggerated. After all, there were rulers from the Piast dynasty, and in the nearby college the first Polish Sejm convened by Kazimierz the Righteous took place, according to various sources. Tum played a key role in the period of Christianity and the early Polish state. Hence the question, in particular to Prime Minister Gliński, who is a Member of the Łódź Voivodeship and Minister of Culture: Will you support this amendment? Thank you very much. [[And the crown of kings do you see? You watch it, you'll get it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u195	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 141st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 178 voted against - 236, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 142nd minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment concerns investments in Łódź voivodship, i.e. Road No. 484 Zelów - Belchatów. And I have a question for your Members, especially Members of the Law and Justice of the Łódź Voivodeship. Will you support this amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u197	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 142nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 178 voted against - 242, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 143rd minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Now it's time for Łowicz, my hometown. I have a request to the High House, and especially to Members of Law and Justice from the Łódź Voivodeship, to support the amendment which concerns the special reserve for the expansion of the hospital in Łódź. It's a hospital rescue unit, a landing site, children's, rehabilitation and geriatric units. Please support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u199	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 143rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There were 181 votes against, 243 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 144th minority request. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! This is an amendment waiting for people with Alzheimer's disease and their carers, members of their families. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of May this year leaves no illusions. In Poland there is no effective care system, treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease. We need a national Alzheimer's program. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] This program is called for by the community of carers of people with this disease. This plan, this programme, is also a proposal from the Ombudsman's report. At the moment, there are 0.5 million people in Poland with Alzheimer's disease. The forecast is as follows: in 2040 there will be 1.5 million. This amendment is only the beginning of a responsible system aimed at diagnostics, early detection and targeted therapy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u201	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 144th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. There were 183 votes against and 244 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 145th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 145th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 176 voted against - 242, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 63rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The amendment concerns a very important issue - the Museum of the Battle of Warsaw. The 100th anniversary of the Battle of 1920 is nearing. Wołomin's local government, local governments of the district of Wołomiński, has been preparing for years a project on this important project, which is the construction of a museum, this magnificent monument of a great event in our 20th century history, perhaps one of the most important museums in the future alongside the Warsaw Uprising Museum and the World War II Museum. We know that there are preliminary declarations from the government that these actions of local governments will be supported. We have a declaration from the Ministry of National Defence. Unfortunately, the draft budget does not explicitly guarantee the resources for this purpose, which is why there is this amendment, which provides these resources to move from the project phase to the works, to the construction of the museum. I would ask you to support this amendment, possibly the Minister of National Defence's designation [[♪ The bell ♪]] or the premiere of the source of funding for the construction of this museum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u203	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 63, raise your hand and press... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, and Mr. Uściński. Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice. I'm sorry, I'm used to the fact that there's only one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I volunteered earlier, but apparently it wasn't noticed. A year ago, the opposition tabled amendments reducing the IPN budget by a total amount exceeding that budget. Now you have tabled a minority proposal and an amendment to reduce the IPN budget by 150 million. To weaken the IPN, you want to use Ossow, the land of a miracle over the Vistula. It's a disgrace, it's a shame, Mr. Grabiec, that you want [[Applause]] rob an IPN and allocate that money to a museum in Ossów. I wanted to use this statement to thank Minister Antoni Macierewicz very much. The Minister decided to implement this investment, the museum in Ossów, by the Ministry of National Defence, by the Polish Army Museum. Polish Army Museum will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] An investor in this museum. And the museum doesn't need funding. Mr. Grabiec, please find out...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u205	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u206	...Volume. This is not a local government investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u207	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u208	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u209	I would only ask your Members not to conduct polemics in the way of asking questions, but to ask questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 63, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 182, against 248, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 146th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 146th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 177 voted against - 244, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 147th minority request. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! POLIN Museum of the History of Polish Jews is an excellent showcase of the history of Poland, is extremely respected and makes us a good brand in the world. The opening of this museum several years ago caused more than 1,000 world accounts, very good ones themselves, and many of them enthusiastic. Every year he visits the museum 0.5 million guests, including 1/3 from abroad, including heads of state, ministers, important personalities. Everyone wants to see this museum. In 2016, the POLIN Museum received the title of the European Museum of the Year, selected from 49 European museums applying for this title. It has many other very important decorations. And this wonderful museum, which is such a good reputation, so good reputation, so good image of Poland provides, will have to fire people this year, because one Norwegian grant has ended and the other has not started. That's why I'm asking, we're asking that 1 million zlotys out of this [[♪ The bell ♪]] increase by PLN 100 million in funds that go to IPN - with PLN 100 million 1 million - move to this museum, which is so good...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u211	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u212	...the image of Poland provides. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u213	Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! I would also like to address a few other parliamentarians who have tabled cultural amendments. In all these cases everything is going well, there is money invested. For reading we have increased expenditure in the budget, unlike your commitment, on monuments [[Applause]] - 20 million more plus a new institution, the National Monument Protection Fund, [[Applause]] It's been working since January. There will be another 20 million this year. [[Voice from the hall: Another Bear.]] As for Gniezno, because that was the bill, that's on the list... [[Voice from the hall: Maintenance of the institution.]] ...European projects to be implemented - just ask the Ministry of Culture or ask in Gniezno - is the Cathedral of Gniezno and sacral monuments. And it will be done. So why are you embarrassing yourselves, taking our time, but above all, the Polish public you're trying to mess with your heads? And as far as POLIN is concerned, yes, we are building new museums, very important ones that haven't been built for years. Several new museum institutions are currently being created in Poland, including the most important one, from the Museum of History of Poland. POLIN Museum, I remind you, was an initiative of the then President of Warsaw Lech Kaczyński. Thanks to Lech Kaczyński [[Applause]] We have a very well-functioning institution, unfortunately - for you probably fortunately - headed and run by the city of Warsaw. We as the Ministry give money for this, we do our duty. On the other hand, we have no influence on the way this museum is run. If there are, as you say, problems with the fact that workers must be fired, please contact your director, who runs this museum, the President of Warsaw, because these are the people responsible. In the light of my knowledge and our commitment, there are no problems. The museum also receives other targeted grants. And as for the historical policy on Polish-Jewish relations, as you know, we are currently conducting another new one. A great realization. We are trying to get from PSL finally - maybe after a few months, I want to say this publicly, because so far we have not received such a decision from the Marshal of PSL from Mazowsze - access to the building where we want to organize the Warsaw Ghetto Museum. I ask you, Mr President, to make it possible for the problems that are multiplied by the marshal to be solved so that Poland also builds a museum that is very much needed in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u215	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 147th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 174 voted against, 256 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 148th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 148th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 176 voted against - 245, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 149th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 149th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 179 voted against - 244, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 64th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Using this amendment as a Civic Platform, we want to reduce the horror spending of the Prime Minister's firm. For the purposes of this firm, after the accident, Prime Minister Szydło and the removal of the car at Oświęcim were recently purchased two exclusive limousines for PLN 5.5 million. We want only PLN 2 million to allocate them to persecuted, molested, crippled, beaten and killed Polish children. It's about PLN 2 million for the ombudsman you took 1 million from, and you added the task. In 2015, 475 suicides of children, 103 suicide attempts, 20 murders and 1088 beatings were reported. It is unknown how it was in 2016, because Minister Błaszczak broke the thermometer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now we know how many crimes there are, but how many of them involve children - we don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u217	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u218	President Kaczyński, I have a request... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u219	Thank you, sir. [[Wait, let him finish.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 64, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr President, I would like you to leave the stand now. 425 Members voted. 177 voted against - 245, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 65th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 65, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 412 against - 12, 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 66th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 66, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 395, against - 22, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 150th minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a whole bunch of these corrections. I'll be back in just two more minutes. The Bielany knot is a very important issue for the southern side of Wrocław, it is a knot on the A4 motorway, a knot built in the dark 1930s. Ladies and gentlemen, have mercy on Wroclaw, over the inhabitants of the southern part of Wroclaw, who commute there to work. There's really a situation that when you get off the highway, you have to stop by the sign "stop." It is simply impossible, this should not be the case in the 21st century, so that I ask you to take this amendment into account. You will certainly vote against, but at least take this into account in your next work and investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u221	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 150th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 190, against - 232, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 67th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The only place in Poland without access to the expressway or highway, and even without plans for the next 6 years within a radius of 100 km, is not the east of Poland, but the northern Wielkopolska, it is the city of Piła. The government of Platform O. has done nothing for our region for many years on this matter. PiS gets in those shoes. We deserve safer roads not only where the rulers live. Therefore, it is a transfer of funds from the party subsidies to the S10 route. Piling and overall Poles do not benefit from PLN 50 million, which they spend on PiS, PO, Modern, Total, SLD, and from the road S10 will benefit everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u223	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 67, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 190 votes against - 230 and 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 68th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendment 68, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 186 voted against - 228, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to 69. Corrections. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is about the construction of the second bridge crossing in the Bank and this amendment is linked to the one I was just talking about concerning the Bielanski Node. Because today, with regard to the Bielański Node, we are at the stage of paying attention to you. On the other hand, with regard to the second bridge crossing in the Bank, we already know that here Law and Justice have drawn attention to this problem. This problem is to be solved, and we are making an amendment to give you a clear signal that we are also watching and we will account for this amendment, I am sorry, with this project and promise. And one more thing, for the sake of accuracy and honesty, as regards the amendment concerning the Bielanski Node. Its author is Michael Jaros, not me. Just so we're clear, I'm giving it back. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u225	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 69, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 187 voted against - 227, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 70th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 70th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 266 voted against - 144, with 15. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 151th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 151st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 179 voted against - 226, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 71st amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 71st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 399 against - 8, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 152nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 152nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 177 voted against - 224, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 72nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 72, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 182 votes against and 238 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 153rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 153rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 184 voted against - 235, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 154th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 154th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 100 against - 319, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 155th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 155th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 173 voted against - 235, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 156th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 156th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 185 voted against - 238 and 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 157th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 157th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 188 voted against - 232, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 158th minority request. We'll proceed to the vote... Aren't I talking too fast? [[Joy, excitement in the courtroom, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Sometimes we can't keep up with the word. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 158th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 181 voted against - 242, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 159th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 159th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 179 votes against - 238 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 160th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 160th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 233, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 161st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 161st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 182 voted against - 244, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 73rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 73rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 82 voted against - 232, with 92 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the 74th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 74, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 411, 8 against, 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 75th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is raised by Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of this amendment is to reduce by 10 million the subsidy allocated to the Polish Tourism Organization and add 10 million to the health prevention programme, specifically the prevention of social disease, which is depression. I do not understand - and here the question to the government - on what basis, the arguments in favour of increasing by 10 million, from 39 to 49, the grant to the Polish Tourist Organization, whose activities over the last two years - not only 2 years, but also earlier - have not been settled in any way. Nor have all reports of mismanagement in this organisation, which is a very large pay chimney, been checked. Therefore, we ask the House to accept this amendment for an important issue such as social illness, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what depression is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u227	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 75 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 104, against 311, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 76th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of Amendment 76, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 72, against 337, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 77th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Romankowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u228	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! I call for a small amount of PLN 3 million to be paid back as a result of the process of reprivatization in Poland, because you do not realize... The building, a park and castle complex in Oporów, one of the few Polish monuments that survived the Swedish Deluge and both world wars, was returned to the owners, although even in this law vetoed by Alexander Kwasniewski was mentioned as a cultural good which is not reprivatised. I ask for PLN 3 million to be taken over by the local government of the Kutnów district of this park and castle complex. It's an extraordinary monument. The Polish State placed financial resources there. Nearly 70 years in the castle there is a museum [[♪ The bell ♪]] with unique monuments. I ask you to hand over this 3 million PLN. This is extremely important if we want to be in our civilization circle. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u229	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of Amendment 77, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 99 against - 322, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 78th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I do not know if the Prime Minister has already made an insight into the losses caused by his fatal policy in the Białowieża Forest by Minister Szyszko. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] Because Minister Szyszko didn't just cut out thousands of trees... [[Sit down.]] ...but he also cut out the money to support the local community. He destroyed the programme of the Białowieża Forest - the forest heritage of Europe, from which investments such as the Copernicus Forest Popular Science Centre in Hajnówka, such as the trail in tree crowns in the municipality of Narewka, i.e. investments to support locals, residents, were to convince them that the Białowieża Forest is not only a renunciation, it is not only a burden, but also an opportunity to build prosperity and commitment to nature conservation. If Prime Minister Morawiecki wants to convince Europe today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, it intends to change its policy towards the Białowieża Forest, it has a unique opportunity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u232	Support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u233	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u234	10 million for the Białowieża Forest support programme - Europe's forest heritage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u235	We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 78, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 179 votes against, 243 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 162nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 162nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 186 voted against - 243, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 79th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Krystyna Wróblewska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Skowronska! Skowronska!]] Excuse me, Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u236	Good morning, my name is Krystyna Skowronska. As Mr Marshal and colleagues from Law and Justice at all meetings, when Mrs Wróblewska is greeted, they say: Krystyna Skowrońska. And that's me. And now a riddle for Minister Brudziński. Minister, a riddle for you. You're new to the resort. [[Excuse me?]] I would like to ask you what this is in the amendments: defibrillator - 6,000, rescue saw - 8,000, selective alarm - 14,000, sludge pump - 8,000. Mr. Marshal, that's how you listen. I would like to say to you that this is the amendment made by Members of the Law and Justice. [[Applause]] And that record that's in the budget that Mr. Marshal has on his desktop is completely different. Today I'd like to say it's supposed to be written like this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that these measures are addressed to individual TSOs. But if it goes on like this, is it a question for the Minister - in relation to everyone...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u237	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u238	...a citizen of all the funds purchased will be listed as such in the budget? It's outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u239	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 79, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 419 against 6 and was suspended by 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 80th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The PiS government has not yet accounted for the scandalous billboard campaign for PLN 19 billion. [[Billions? How about some gold?]] Let me remind you that... [[No, for 190 billion.]] 19 million PLN. ...members of the board of directors of the national foundation earn between 16 and 18 thousand. zł [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] monthly. Today you want to transfer more money to pay for another de facto fictional institute, this time the National Freedom Institute. Come to your senses. We don't want to spend more government money on these kind of scandalous campaigns that only fuel hatred that doesn't bring anything good, and in fact they're throwing public money in the mud. I appeal... [[Sit down.]] ...to reject this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u241	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 80 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. It voted 257 against - 160, 15 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 163rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 163rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 176 voted against - 232, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 164th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 164th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 173, against - 251, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 81st amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 81st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 23, with seven abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are moving to a review of the 165th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 165th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 185 voted against - 225, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 82nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Poles certainly have the right to clean air. The Civic Platform believes that it is the responsibility of the State to fulfil this right. At the same time, we are aware that this is a great challenge. And with great satisfaction we have accepted the fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki also considers it a great challenge, he shares our opinion. However, it is a system project, which is why we have submitted a proposal for an appropriate law. However, before this happens, we propose a transfer of PLN 1 billion to the implementation of the national air protection programme, which the PO-PSL government adopted in 2015 and which currently does not have any funding. We look forward to constructive cooperation both in the implementation of this challenge and in the cooperation in the proposed law that we have submitted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With this request I also address the new Minister Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u243	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 82, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 182 voted against - 240, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 83rd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Against protests and against logic, you insisted on destroying the education system, and you did. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] The class you've done to the kids, especially those yearbooks that are now in the seventh grade, and next year they'll be in the eighth grade, you just can't estimate, value. However, it is certainly possible to estimate the losses that local governments suffer, because you promised that you would hand over the money to the local authorities to prepare schools so that in the buildings of former junior high schools they could learn the first graders, so children 6-, 7-, 8-year-olds, but you did not give the money, you did not include them in the budget. This is demonstrated by the speeches of the joint education and local government committees at yesterday's meeting - the speeches of representatives of local governments who claim to have received a fraction of the money that is needed for these purposes. Therefore, we propose that PLN 1 billion be shifted, in this amendment, to educational subsidies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that local governments have the money to do the necessary work, so that the children who are learning today in nightmare conditions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u245	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u246	Thanks to your reform, they could learn decently. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[It wasn't about sex education?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u247	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 83, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 181 voted against - 244, 6 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 84th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 84, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 178 voted against - 239, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 85th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 85 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 181 voted against - 237, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 86th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's a shame there's no Prime Minister Morawiecki, but I understand, probably important duties. Ladies and gentlemen, you have introduced, and you are proud of this, a free program of medicines for seniors, but this is a very random program and unfortunately a very small group of medicines is financed from this programme. In addition, the restrictions resulting from the fact that only the primary healthcare doctor, and not everyone, can prescribe these medicines, cause that unfortunately the availability of these medicines is very little. I write them myself, and therefore I know perfectly well the opinions of patients and the medical community on this subject. With the financial situation of the country, this 300 million PLN is not so much. So, in fact, since you're not revalorizing pensions or pensions, let's give these chronically ill seniors all the medications for chronic diseases free of charge. It'll make sense to all of us. At the same time, we will introduce the possibility in the perspective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by all social security doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u249	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 86, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 181 votes against - 238 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 87th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two years ago, the Sejm passed an amendment over the divisions, according to which it allocated 20 million to the hospice in the Łódź Voivodeship. Unfortunately, the Minister of Health didn't run that money and the entire amount was gone. Today in the amendment we propose that funds be allocated to hospices across the country, in all voivodships. We have a chance to make that mistake right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u251	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 87, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 184 voted against - 236, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the review of Amendment 88. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 8 years the Civic Platform was built 2600 Orliks. This is a big, big project, thanks to which especially our young people and children can develop sporty, but thanks to which we can also be proud of the successes of our national staff. There is no Prime Minister, but it also sounded during his exposé: Why can't the best ones develop and play at the highest level in Poland? This amendment, thanks to which we want to allocate specially dedicated money for the development of Orlik infrastructure, for its renovations, is very much needed. We are asking for support because we do not want the Orliks to turn into ruins under the PiS rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u253	Thank you, sir. I remind you, the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 88, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 182 voted against - 242, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 89th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u254	High Seym! Law and Justice representatives often talk about their concern for disabled children and their families. If that's true, let's stop discrimination against children with disabilities lightly in the 500+ flagship programme. I will remind you that by the age of 16, children's disability does not differ and all children have the same entitlement in the 500+ programme. In 16 years of age, the degree of disability is determined. And then those children who have been diagnosed with a slight disability lose their rights. They are less treated than children with disabilities to a moderate and significant degree, and the fact that they are only slightly disabled is often the result of years of hard work of parents, doctors, rehabilitators, educators. And this work must continue not only until the age of 18, but also often throughout life. So let's stop with discrimination against these children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's give them the same rights as all the other children, if it's true that everyone here cares about these children so much. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: How did you vote yesterday?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u255	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 89, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 183 voted against - 230, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: How did he vote yesterday?]] Let's move on to the 166th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the expansion of the University Clinical Hospital in Wrocław. This expansion has been going on for many years, almost 40 years now. The Civic Platform has built another block until 2015 - Cape Hope, which is at the moment such a good showcase of Poland in Europe. Building C is missing, the amendment to support its construction last year was rejected. Please vote in favour of this amendment this year. Part of the university hospital is located on the other side of the city of Wrocław. In a situation where we are now having problems with medical personnel, the ideal thing is to have the entire University Clinical Hospital in one location. Hence, this amendment is really important. Thank you in advance for the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u257	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 166th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 187 votes against - 238 and 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 90th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 8,000. children born in Poland from the in vitro programme and the first decision of the Minister of Health of the Government of PiS eliminating financing of the in vitro programme. We will remind you of 8,000 every year in every budget debate. children. This amendment restores 80 million PLN for the programme to be financed by the state, so that the state can help those people who are fighting infertility, and we are talking about 2 million Poles. 80 million in vitro - yes or no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u259	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 90, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 174 voted against - 236, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 167th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 167th application, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 184 voted against - 228, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 168th minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! December 21st Ub. In Katowice, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke with great concern on behalf of the government of the Polish PiS about the Silesian Voivodeship, its inhabitants, and about the need to support the region. I would like to ask Members of the Law and Justice, in particular Members of this voivodeship, whether they will support the amendment, the amendment and another which I have tabled together with Mr Wojciech the King, so that the construction of the Eastern Road Route will be possible, which will allow the construction of the Silesian agglomeration to be connected with cities such as Jaworzno, Mysłowice and Sosnowiec. I appeal to you, in particular you of the Law and Justice, to support these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u261	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 168th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 188, against 236, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 169th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 169th application, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 182 voted against - 234, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 170th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 170th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 172 votes against, 232 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 171th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 171st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 178 voted against - 239, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 172nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 172th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 185 voted against - 229, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 173rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal 173., raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 176 voted against - 235, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 174th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every country, every nation takes care of its veterans. These people, when they come back from the mission, often need medical support. A great reflection of their situation is the documentary film of the Veterans. Death ripped out. And there is an opportunity because the Central Veterans Hospital has developed a project to build a new operating block. The High House can support this investment by supporting the amendment tabled. I'm asking for empathy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u263	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 174th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 187 voted against - 235, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 175th minority request. The question is asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This request concerns the construction of a passenger and freight terminal at the commercial port in Kołobrzeg. In June Ub. In the presence of Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Gróbarczyk, Minister Brudziński, a keel was placed under the construction of the ferry, although there is no project or financing. If there's gonna be a ferry, it's got to be a terminal. Therefore, I would ask you to support our request and build this terminal for the purposes of the port. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u265	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 175th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 180, against - 241, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 176th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 176th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 218, with six abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 177th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 177th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 181 voted against - 233, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 178th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the 178th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 182 voted against - 231, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 179th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 179th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 179 voted against - 235, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 180th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 180th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 182 voted against - 232, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 181th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 181st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 187 voted against - 231, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 182nd minority request. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You could say two times the charm. The Sinfonia Varsovia orchestra is the leading Polish orchestra... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Michael, Michael, come on.]] ...ambassador of Polish culture in the world. This year the biggest investment in Polish music begins - the construction of Sinfonia Varsovia Centrum in Warsaw at ul. Grochowska. Lech Kaczyński established the Sinfonia Varsovia Orchestra as a cultural institution m.st. Warsaw. This investment will cost PLN 460 million by 2022. The Government of Law and Justice has allocated 0 PLN for this investment. This is your chance to prove today that music eases customs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u267	Which we can confirm, which we can certainly confirm. [[Couldn't you react like this?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 182th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The voice from the room: What a bluff.]] 429 Members voted. 183 voted against - 239, 7 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 183rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 183rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 178 voted against - 242, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the review of the 184th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bridge on the Vistula Vistula in Tczew is a pearl of 19th-century architecture. In the previous term, the Civic Platform allocated funds for the first stage of the renovation of this bridge. Maybe that's why you don't want to spend money on further stages. But it is a great pity for the residents on the one hand and on the other side of the Vistula. Every year I make an amendment to the budget for this money and every year with the votes of Members of the PiS, and it is from the Tczewski district, these amendments are lost. I have a big request for you to support this amendment this time, because this is a really important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u269	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 184th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 179 votes against - 240, 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 185th minority request. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure, because we have such a situation that the construction of the A1 motorway - and the construction of an alternative road to it - road 91 - is currently being delayed and nothing is happening in this regard. In fact, there is no chance of building the second part of the Radom ring road, and all documents that will facilitate the passage of heavy cars that must necessarily pass through Radomsko are doomed to national road number 42. Minister, this amendment is about rebuilding this road, where all the documentation and everything is done. What are the chances for this national road to be refurbished so that it can accept this move, but in the short... And in what perspective could road 91 be modernised as an alternative to the A1 motorway? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u271	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 185th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 182 voted against - 236, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 186th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 186th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 177 voted against - 238 and 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 187th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 187th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 183, against - 237, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going over the 188th minority request. The question is raised by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Up to three times the charm, because for the third time I am proposing an amendment concerning the city of Łęczyca, and this is the extension of the hospital, so important in this region, the extension of a high-quality operating room. Ladies and gentlemen! I particularly address Members of the Law and Justice and, in particular, those who are from the Łódź Voivodeship. If you do not vote in favour of this amendment, I guarantee you that the Celestial Devil Boruta will not let you out of hell. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[We smell Satan.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u273	I'm not commenting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 188th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 179 voted against - 240, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 189th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 189th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 170 votes against, 226 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 190th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This minority proposal concerns the inner ring road of the city of Mysłowice, a very important, necessary ring road in this city. The construction of this ring road was to be financed by the state budget, but this investment was stopped years ago. The city itself is unable to cope with the burden of this investment. I would ask you to support this proposal, especially the Members of my district. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u275	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 190th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 177 voted against - 235, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 191st minority request. The question is raised by Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u276	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an appeal for solidarity with the Malopolska Members. When some of you were in opposition, you were very happy to make an amendment to start the construction of the Tarnow ring road. As for the fact that it is needed, there is no doubt that there was no money for it, and unfortunately there is no doubt, but in order to build it and to benefit from EU money from the next perspective, it needs to be prepared. Thanks to this amendment, you have a chance to show concern for the city of Tarnów and to even prepare this construction. If you really are involved in the city's welfare, you should vote in favour of this amendment. Only 20 million to prepare the investment, which gives us the chance that later, in the next perspective, this bypass will be built. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u277	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 191st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 234, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 192nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 192nd minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 230, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 193th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 193th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 176 voted against - 227, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 194th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 194th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 179 voted against - 229, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 195th minority request. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask very much for the support of this amendment, it concerns the route, a national road which is very important for the Łódź and Mazowieckie voivodship, it is about the S12 route. So far, all the construction work on the new S12 road has stood still. Indeed, there is not even guaranteed funding to complete the construction of the road. That is why I would ask, especially the Parliamentarians of the 10th electoral district, to support this amendment, in order to make it easier for the Minister, because I hope, Minister, that this solution is supported by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u279	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 195th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 176 voted against - 235, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 196th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 196th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 177 voted against - 233, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 197th minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a very important road for the inhabitants of Sieradz, Łódź Voivodeship, road No 479. I don't know what to call you anymore. [[Voice from the room: Try harder.]] Even the devil Boruta is not afraid, but at least listen to your conscience and the people who need this investment. I particularly address Members of the Łódź Voivodeship, because as you at election meetings will look your voters in the eye. Not a single amendment of the opposition has passed so far. It's just scandal, scandal, and scandal again. This shows how much respect you have for opposition and residents, including the inhabitants of the Łódź voivodship. Question. Will your conscience finally move you and vote in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u281	We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 197th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 178 voted against - 237, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 198th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 198th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 234 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 199th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 199th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 177 voted against - 226, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 200th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 200th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 176 voted against - 223, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 201th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 201st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 177 votes against - 230 and 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 202nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 202nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 177 voted against - 234, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 203rd minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a very important investment in the Łowice district, namely the bridge on the Bzura river on the 2700E road. This is a bridge that they travel through very often - it's such a bypass - cars that cannot participate in the road traffic of this old two, so-called. 92. This is the old road that connected the eastern border to the western border. This is the amount of PLN 8 million. From the point of view of road safety and state safety, this is a very important investment. I ask this very much, and at the same time I have a question: Will the State of Law and Justice support this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u283	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 203rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 177 voted against - 234, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 204th minority request. The question will be asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is with great sadness and regret that, among these dozens of applications, the majority concerned the protection of health, the purchase of medical equipment, the renovation of hospital emergency services. Therefore, the Regional Hospital in Kołobrzeg also fits into these needs - it is about buying a magnetic resonance. Since several dozen proposals have not received your support, I hope that this proposal will finally reach you and will be voted out by you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u285	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 204th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 183, against - 232, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 205th minority request. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club. [[Sorry, I didn't hear you.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u286	Ladies and gentlemen! Nowa Kielnieńska with a tunnel near Pachołek is intended to provide direct access to the inhabitants of Sopot and a large part of Gdansk to the future road S6. Without building this route, the historic post-Cistercian district of Oliwa awaits destruction by thousands of cars passing through its centre, the more that it is the main access to the intensively expanding district of Osowa. An environmental decision for this route will be ready any minute. So money is needed for further work, of course, in stages. I am addressing you from the PiS, because despite my amendments, you are still rejecting the money for this purpose. I am asking for money to carry out this tunnel, especially since it will be the last big hand in EU funds, and without it the local authorities and you will not be able to do it without it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So if not now, never. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u287	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 205th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 161 voted against - 254, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 206th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 206th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 174 voted against - 229, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 207th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 207th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 181 votes against - 237, 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 208th minority request. Here's the question. The question will be asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This time the powiat Opoczyński, Łódzkie Voivodeship, road nr 728 Drzewica - Brzustowiec. The question to Members of the Law and Justice, especially from the Łódź voivodeship, is one Member who lives in the Opoczyn County, also from PiS. Question: "Will you vote... [[Voice from the room: Who is it?]] Robert. [[Voice from the room: Who's Robert? There are many Roberts.]] Question: "Will you vote in favour of this amendment in the budget?" Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Please.]] [[I'd love to, but a friend of mine only calls the boat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u289	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 208th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 174 voted against - 229, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 91st amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: He's asleep.]] [[I'm sorry, but I'm far away.]] [[Voice from the hall: You have such a voice that you can from a distance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u290	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention because we have been working for several hours and this work, among others. The point is that PiS MEPs - in some way so generous - have their regional amendments that pass through, and spend, each in their own district, some small money. I get it. I don't blame you for that. But I would like to point out that in this amendment... She sounds like you're taking 20 million out of the draft budget that you've prepared yourself, which is intended to finance the tasks of your own local government units and the tasks carried out under the Regional Policy Law. So what does that mean? That you're giving each other gifts in the districts, and at the same time from the state budget that you've prepared for, you're taking this money off to support the local activities. And what do you use them for? To improve public finances, including the recovery of state revenues. That means we're doing some fiction. So you designed the budget yourself, it's the money for the local government, and you give it here, and you take it here. So this job really doesn't make any sense. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u291	Nobody's gonna answer? Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 91, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 282 voted against - 133, 11 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 209th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 209th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 173 voted against - 219, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 210th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 210th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 182 voted against - 240, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 92th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! With this amendment, Law and Justice wants to allocate PLN 6 million from the general reserve for the development of Polish-Hungarian cooperation. There is nothing wrong in this very fact, we would like to say: köszönöm shepén, thank you very much, but the question is whether you also want to support cooperation with other countries from the budget, or just see Hungary in Europe. Because there was supposed to be a change in the policy of the European Government of Law and Justice, and the Government of Law and Justice only deals with securing the rear. First visit of the President - meeting with Orbán, first visit of Prime Minister Morawiecki - meeting with Orbán. Look around 'cause you have to do coalitions with other countries, not just Hungarians. Therefore, spending money only and exclusively on cooperation with Hungary is quite questionable. But I have an idea for you. Namely, this money, and then we may abstain or vote in favour, you may spend on a joint analysis of how to comply with the rule of law. And here you can learn a new word, quite difficult: törvenyesség, in Hungarian the rule of law. Maybe you'll spend your money on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u293	Thank you. I do not know if the Member referred to the amendment. [[Speaking of which, Mr. Marshal, will you repeat it?]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, how is Satan in Hungarian?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 92, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 280 voted against - 136, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 93rd amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 93, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 268 votes against - 151, 7 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 211th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 211st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. 151 votes against - 230 and 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 94th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 119. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 94, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 231, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 95th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 95, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 271 voted against - 134, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the 212th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister Szydło! Two years ago, you promised people a water supply in the municipality of Koniecpol. In the meantime, you're no longer the Prime Minister, and the water supply isn't there. In September, I wrote to you about this, it was a question and a request for clarification, but unfortunately, until today, I have not received an answer from you or your successor. I understand it's in the name of respect for the sovereign, because I'm not the one waiting for the waterworks in the end field, just those people. There's a $6 million missing. Since you're handing out life chainsaws, defibrillators, I understand that you'll find resources in this budget for the people your former Prime Minister promised two years ago in the light of the cameras. Madam Prime Minister, for you to come out with a face to face on this unfulfilled promise, please really appeal to your fellow Members to finally find the 6 million to build a water supply in the end of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u295	We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 212th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 181 votes against - 237, 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to consider 213 of the minority's request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 213st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 183 voted against - 235, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 214th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 214th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 181 voted against - 231, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 215th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 215th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 168 voted against - 233, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 216th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 216th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 163 votes against - 235, 22 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going over the 217th minority request. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the reconstruction of road 713 running through Tomaszów Mazowiecki, where the president is your man, belonging to the Law and Justice. I have such a question for my fellow Members from Law and Justice and my fellow Members from Law and Justice: Will you help? [[Voices from the room: No.]] That's what I thought. [[Applause]] [[He's been like this before.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u297	May I remind you that the questions should be addressed to the representative of the government, who is the Minister of Finance. I haven't heard a single question from the finance minister yet. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 217th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 176 voted against - 237, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 96th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 96, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 163 voted against - 244, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 97th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 97th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 168 votes against - 248 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 218th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 218th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 183 voted against - 232, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 219th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 219th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 185, against 236, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 220th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 220th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 187 votes against, 233 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 221nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 221st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 186 voted against - 237, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to a review of the 222nd minority request. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Kalet, do not shout too loudly. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 222nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. There were 183 votes against - 230 and 7 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 98th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 98, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 189 voted against - 233, with six abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the 223rd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 223rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 184 voted against - 231, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to consider the 224th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 224th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 186 voted against - 239, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 225th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 225th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 187 votes against - 230 and 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 226th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 226th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 235, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 227th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 227th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 184 voted against - 237, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 228th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 236 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 229th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 186 voted against - 236, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 230th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 230th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 188 voted against - 234, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 231st minority request. The question is asked by Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Maybe somebody would answer sometime.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure, because last year there was money for building local roads to facilitate communication, including urban agglomerations. And among others. there were over PLN 1 billion. Some of the projects went through the whole formal procedure. They were qualified, and then it turned out that the billion was evaporated because the money was going to go to the Vistula mine and to the pit in Świnoujście. The end of last year, the measure is not dug, the underground in Świnoujście has no money for the road, so-called. The Skierniewice ring road is gone, too. All documents are ready to be accepted and the investment is ready to be completed. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister if, in the name of what happened a year ago, when the people of Skierniewice were somehow deceived, it would not be appropriate [[♪ The bell ♪]] now use this money so that the promised investment can be realized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u299	I don't see the Minister of Infrastructure here on the list. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 231st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 187 voted against - 241, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 232nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 181 voted against - 242, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 233rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 233rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 186 voted against - 237, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 234th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 183, against - 240, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of the 235rd minority request. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Shadółka node is part of the Tricity ring road, which is currently overloaded, especially during the holiday period and rush hour. You need 50 million for the first stage. For this purpose, I propose to remove money from the design of the excavation through the Vistula mine, because this excavation is an investment, in my opinion, without economic justification, primarily destroying the unique fauna and flora of this unique place of Poland. We should measure it, not destroy it. There would also be enough money for local roads, so-called. The schetins for which, I understand, you cut the money because of their common name. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u301	I didn't catch the last part of the sentence. [[It's about the name.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Those who are in favour of the 235rd minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 182 voted against - 245, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 236th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 184 voted against - 240, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 237th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 186 voted against - 232, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 238th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 187 voted against - 231, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 239th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 186 voted against - 237, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 240th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 183, against - 237, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to consider the 241st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 185 voted against - 235, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to a review of the 242nd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 179 voted against - 236, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 243rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 187, against - 240, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 244th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 187 voted against - 239, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 245th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 185, against - 237, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 246th minority motion. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 183 voted against - 238 and 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are now going to consider the 247th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 184 voted against - 241, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 248th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 183, against - 241, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 249th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 181 voted against - 241, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 250th minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns regional accounting chambers. We have a new Minister of the Interior - Minister Joachim Brudziński will have to face RIO. And there's the problem that employees have wage problems when it comes to the lowest... Requirements are very high, qualifications, expectations very high, and some of the lowest wages. I'm saying this as head of the parliament committee for self-government. Most often in RIO discussions In connection with the budget, this is what we are talking about: let us save these people because they are fleeing to the municipalities, to the cities. They're professionals, but we can't stop them by offering such low wages. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we make up for this, not deepen it. For today's RIO in the financial sense, when it comes to employees, and there are few, unfortunately it is plunged. It's gotta be changed. Requesting backup. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u303	Thank you, sir. We can proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 250th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 187 voted against - 233, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to consider the 251st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 186 voted against - 232, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 252nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 185 voted against - 231, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 99th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 99, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 177 voted against - 240, with 6 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We are now going to consider the 253rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. There were 183 votes against and 235 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 254th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 182 voted against - 236, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to consider the 255th minority request. The question is raised by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u304	Ladies and gentlemen! The Tricity Metropolitan Circuit is a very important route due to the fact that the current bypass is completely blocked. While the NSA has referred the environmental decision for this route to be re-examined by the WSA, any month now it will be decided and the measures that were needed, only the State of PiS, the current government, have transferred them to the implementation of two routes south. The current Tricity ring road is no longer fulfilling its role, as the housing estates are now around it, as I said. It's become a city street. So I'm asking. : Is the removal of the metropolitan ring road from the detailed description of the priority axes of the Operational Programme Infrastructure and the environment, the next PiS decisions addressed in Pomerania? The government consistently removes road investments from the implementation plans [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Pomerania. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u305	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 255th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 181 votes against - 237, 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 256th minority request. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Starogard's perimeter - it takes 6 million for design work. Implementation in the system design and build. Last year, the Infrastructure Commission even held its meeting in Starogard because of this important ring road. There are so many cars passing through the centre of Starogard on the national road no. 22 that it is a great danger to the inhabitants of... [[Voice from the room: How much?]] ...and poisoning. Currently, there are thousands of cars passing through the national road no. 22 per day. The enormous movement in the center of this city is indeed a great threat to Starogard, a threat to the lives of its inhabitants. The investment so needed for residents was dismissed by you. Is it because the Starogard authorities objected to the location of the barracks for the Territorial Defence Forces? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Macierewicz, this investment was dismissed in time? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u307	We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of the 256th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working!]] [[Voice from the room: It works, it works.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 185 voted against - 234, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 257th minority request. No questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of him, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 183, against - 232, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 258th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 170 voted against - 228, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 259th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 170 voted against - 235, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 260th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 190, against - 232, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to a review of the 261th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 185 votes in favour, 232 votes against, six abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to consider the 262nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 184 voted against - 229, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 100th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of it, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 182 voted against - 239, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're going to consider the 263th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club. [[No question, resignation is.]] Please? But I do not see the Member. Oh, there you are, I understand. [[I quit, I'm done.]] You're quitting. Okay, thank you very much. [[How about a five-minute break?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 263th motion, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 180 voted against - 235, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 101st amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed to the... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet because I can't hear myself. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 101, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 291, against - 7, with 131 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 264th minority request. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Regional amendment. Warmia and Mazury bow. Once again Eastern Poland, Poland B. All amendments are being rejected so far. It is a pity that this is sustainable development, because the road Olsztyn - Szczytno, the leading road among others. to the largest airport, airport in Szymany, the only airport in this region, requires modernization. It is a dangerous road today. We need the money. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the support of Eastern Poland, this Poland B, which is so much discussed before the elections. Requesting backup.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u309	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 264th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 179 voted against - 241, 8 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 265th minority request. The question is... No, no question. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 184 voted against - 235, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 266th minority request. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party. [[Haven't you had enough?]] [[Voice from the hall: Mieczysław, Ropczyce?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the last time, there's no point, there's no point. That's the old man talking to the painting. You're not human men. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You proved today that you are not human masters. Nothing can touch you - pensioners, poor families, regional amendments. Even Jarosław, such holiness, Jarosław. I was hoping it would work here at least. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[We won't be fooled.]] We supported, as declared, all your amendments. Did we? We supported it. What about Where's the gratitude? You were talking about cooperation. I'm giving you one more chance, one last chance today, one last chance. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Amendment concerning the exit from the motorway in Magistrate Małopolska. [[There's an amendment. We have an amendment.]] Of course, you'll complain to the Prime Minister that the government isn't doing it because it's fashionable, you'll be digging in, shoveling in, coming in, etc. It just doesn't make sense, you cheat voters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u311	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 266th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 191 voted against - 235, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 267th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 178 voted against - 227, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are moving to the examination of the 268th minority proposal. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Voice from the hall: Paul, last time?]] Well, that's the last time. Listen, in order not to extend, 20 million PLN is needed for a viaduct in Koluszki in the Łódź Voivodeship. You are not afraid of the devil Boruta, you are not afraid of hell, you have deep respect for the sovereign, your conscience is fragile. Say, "How can I tell you how to convince you to break your hearts as cold as a rock?" [[Applause]] [[Briefly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u313	Mr President, we need to get to the point. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 268th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 173 voted against - 233, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 269th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 187 voted against - 232, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 102nd amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 102, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 319, against - 101, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 103rd amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 103rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 384, against - 16, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're going over the 270th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 228, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 104th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 104th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 403 against - 3 with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 105th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever is in favour of Amendment 105 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 388, against - 5, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 106th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 106, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 417, against - 5, with 7 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 107th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 107, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 3, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 108th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 108, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 391, 15 against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 109th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 109th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 388, against - 17, with 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 110th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 110, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 405, against - 5, with 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the review of the 111th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 111th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 421 against - 3, 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 112th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 112th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 1 with 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to the review of Amendment 113. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 113, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - 4, 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to the review of Amendment 114. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of Amendment 114, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 422 voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the review of the 115th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Let's move on to the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 115, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 296, against - 103, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of Amendment 116. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 116, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 381 against - 10, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to the review of Amendment 117. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 117, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 418 voted in favour, no one voted against, no six abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to the review of Amendment 118. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 118, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 416 against - 3 and 7 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to the review of Amendment 119. The question is asked by Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of this day, from the mouth of the Chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, Mr Andrzej Szlachta, we heard a declaration governing this important amendment, the establishment of the Silesian Centre for the Prevention and Treatment of Environmental Diseases, Civilization and the Age of the Last. Prof. Zbigniew Religion; it is a disease of the heart, lungs and vessels. Thank you very much for this declaration. I thank you very much for this declaration because this process was launched by the Platform in December 2016. This has ripened thanks to efforts undertaken under the direction of Prime Minister Szydło - thank you - and Prime Minister Morawiecki, with the support of Mr Szydło [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ministry of Health, Finance and Science and Higher Education. I thank you all on behalf of Prof. Religion, on behalf of the sick and on behalf of the healers. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u315	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lung dust, hearing damage, visual damage, back problems... [[That's not your amendment.]] All the miners, the steel workers, and the people who work a lot in the heavy industry, you fought with Professor Marian Zembal. I would very much like to thank you for this initiative, and it has been going on for a year. I hope that above the groups one can be persuaded to accept this amendment, the point is that it should be accepted by the High Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u317	Thank you. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 119, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 420, against - one, with three abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] We move on to the 120th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 120, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 374 against - 50, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 121st amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 121, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 9, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 122nd amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 122, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 410, against - 1 and with 15. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 123rd amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 123, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 378, against - 39, with 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of Amendment 124. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 124, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 421 voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 125th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of Amendment 125, you will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 422, against - 5, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of the 271st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 225, with five abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 272nd minority request. Let's move on to the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 186 voted against - 239, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 273th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Whoever's in favour of his admission, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 184 voted against - 239, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 126th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of the 126th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 3 and 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 127th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 127, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 423 and there was 6 abstentions, and no one voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of the 128th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 128, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 419 against - 1 with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 129th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 129, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - 2, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 130th amendment to Article. 39 applicants shall propose that the law enter into force on the date of its publication with effect from 1 January 2018. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of Amendment 130, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 419 voted against, no one voted against, no six abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. There are questions to the whole thing. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Club Kukiz.15. [[No, no, it's a mistake.]] Excuse me, Mr Blazej Parda, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of all those who work hard, spill blood, pay health or even with life, paying 42 billion zlotys of credit, which in a moment I ask for a moment of reflection. [[Voice from the hall: Are you a priest?]] As Kukiz,15 we do not collect PLN 7 million per year and thus remain in the budget. Minister, use them for health care as well. And the questions are: How does the government intend to protect us from the coming global crisis? When will you reduce VAT? When will you give the workers and entrepreneurs a break? When are you going to simplify taxes because they're so complicated that you don't understand them? Although maybe it's not the best determinant. How many new taxes will you introduce and why so much? Where's the surplus that's never been and never there, and there's not gonna be this year either? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Genius.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u319	Thank you very much. Just one question. Would the Prime Minister like to speak on the whole project then? No. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2073, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Two Members abstained in voting 240 against - 189. I state that the Sejm has passed a budget law for 2018. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] The adoption of certain amendments will result in appropriate amendments to other provisions and annexes to the Budget Law. At the moment, the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki, asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for adopting this budget. This is by far a very good budget, the best we could achieve for Polish families, for Polish citizens, for people. A lot of numbers came down here. I don't want my thanks to cover with numbers, I just want to say that we are making a major breakthrough on the tax side in 2018 and that is the only reason why our planned deficits are the lowest in the last 28 years. At the same time, we may have the means to pay for all our social policy, for security policy - internal security, external security. We raise our expenses in all relevant areas. The total increase in the expenditure of the public finance sector is more than PLN 40 billion year by year, precisely to secure funds for raising pensions, for all the purposes which you have also partially called for here. These funds are also on the roads, and on the railways, i.e. the development of infrastructure, of course for housing, of course for health care. In 2018 will be the highest increase in healthcare expenditure compared to the last 28 years. [[Applause]] 93 billion, to be precise, an increase of more than 6 billion. As you can see, when budget implementation is better, we share with people, we share these surpluses with society, that's why... [[But this is their money, how do you share it?]] [[Tax profit.]] [[It's not your money.]] ...to be best invested - in human health, in equipment, as well as, what can be noted, in the implementation of certain arrears, commitments from the past. The past year and this year we are already in, this financial year, which today - thank you very much to the High House - has been accepted, this is a very good year, both in terms of income and expenditure, although of course we will continue to work on tax issues, because this is a real, very profound change from what was before. Thank you very much to the House for adopting this budget. I am convinced that thanks to him we will be able to serve Poland well, to serve Polish families well and to serve the security of our borders as well as internal security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u321	Thank you, Prime Minister. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 56th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 56 hours 16 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members to be closed. Please make a statement to Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, in recent times, the issue of Silesian language has returned like boomerang, a debate in the Sejm on a case that seems obvious. It is the expression of the Silesian ethnic minority that arouses the worst possible association with the political correctness and recognition of the Silesians as some foreign element on their own land. Today, the first reading of the draft law initiated by the Silesian Autonomy Movement on recognition of the Silesian ethnic minority and the Silesian regional language took place. The project raises many doubts. There are people living on Silesian soil. And this residence entitles each of them to call themselves Silesia. At the request of the RAW, are we going to raise barricades, start a war, and divide people? Is that smart? Today, when we have financial and economic problems, we will be discussing a project worth 800 million, which is to come from state money, a project that really brings nothing into our reality, except administrative extortion of the use of chatter and the provision of some clever ideologies of state jobs. What does the leader of the Silesian Autonomy count on? A second life? He got his five minutes, and what did he do with them? Did the Silesians during his term of office receive anything? And what did the region gain? Apart from the Silesian Railways, Silesian Stadium, Silesian Park and Silesian Museum, of course. Oh, yeah, he's got a lot of credit here. These are undoubtedly examples, although not the only, excellent co-ordination of the Silesian Autonomy Movement and the Civic Platform in the region. Confusion and commotion is a leader's specialty. The time is that it is possible to put oil in the fire again and remind the Silesians, because people have already forgotten about the merit of destroying everything Silesian, what is traditional, including the attempt to close the 100-year-old Upper Silesian Museum in Bytom. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Shame on you, Member. You're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u323	Thank you very much. There you go, voice... [[Shame, shame. Are you a Silesian?]] I'm asking you to calm down. [[Shame.]] Please, Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We are at the beginning of January 2018, the anniversary year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. On two examples, I would like to show how local Poland, Poland of rural areas, has already started celebrating the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. On the example of the public primary school in Białobrzegy Radomskie nad Pilica, I would like to show how educated schoolchildren are, how important dates and authorities of heroes fighting for the independence of our homeland are reminded. The title of the exhibition, which I had the opportunity to see, is: The heroes of the Independent. The exhibition begins with a reminder of the bar confederation of 1768 and 1772. It is shown here that this was the last before the partitions of the freedom break against Russia. Kazimierz Pułaski, Michał Krasiński, Joachim Potocki, leader of the Confederacy, sworn to defend the independence of the homeland, faith and freedom. Without help, the Confederacy fell, and the patriots were arrested and sentenced to Russian slavery. Then the first partition of the Republic was carried out. The first partition of Poland took place in 1772, but the Poles immediately realized that the fight for regaining lost independence had to be started. The National Education Commission was established in 1773. It was the first Ministry of Education. At this date and during this event, names are reminded: Hugo Kołłątaj, Ignacy Potocki, Grzegorz Piramowicz, Adam Czartoryski, Bishop Massalski. Another very important event was the adoption of the Constitution on 3 May in 1791. The patriotic camp decided to adopt a law that could help rebuild Poland and regain independence. The Constitution was adopted in 1791 on 3 May. It was the first in Europe, the second in the world after the U.S. Constitution. And here the young people are reminded of the names: Fr. Hugo Kołłątaj, Ignacy Potocki, King Stanisław August Poniatowski. But the constitution was interfering with the camp of treason and traitors bound the Targovice. Then there was a fratricidal fight, lost, of course, because Russia was involved. Russia strangled the patriotic camp and destroyed the Constitution on 3 May. The second partition of Poland took place in 1793. But in 1794. The Poles were not idle again and the Kościuszko Uprising broke out. Names are mentioned here: Tadeusz Kościuszko, Duke Józef Poniatowski, Gen. Antoni Madaliński, Jan Kiliński, Wojciech Bartosz Głowacki. Then, you know, the Kościuszko Uprising fell, there was the third partition of Poland and then Poland disappeared from the map of Europe for 123 years of captivity. But already in 1797 General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski established the Polish Legions in Italy. There are further national and independent breaks on this exhibition. 1830 - November Uprising, Piotr Wysocki, Gen. Ignacy Prądzyński, Gen. Ludwik Bogusławski. Of course, the uprising has fallen. Another one was the January Uprising of 1863: Romuald Traugutt, Dioniza Czachowski. Finally, regaining independence after 123 years of captivity: Marshal Józef Piłsudski, Ignacy Paderewski, Vincenty Witos, Roman Dmowski, Ignacy Daszyński. Events and people are shown, heroes of the nation, who are still in front of young people since 11 November 2017 thanks to this exhibition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The history teachers were tasked with developing it in lessons and bringing it closer to what it was all about in the fight for independence of Poland, what heroism it was. National identity is promoted among young people. And for that I would like to thank the public teachers of the Primary School for this. Committee on National Education in Białobrzegów Radomskie nad Pilica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u325	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The game of chess appeared in Poland probably around the 12th century, which is almost at the beginning of our statehood. It is assumed that Bolesław Krzywousty was the first Polish ruler who devoted himself to this noble entertainment. Unfortunately, however, to this day it has not been established which way chess reached Poland - whether from the south through the Czech Republic or by sea or through Russia. Perhaps each of these theories is somehow true. Very quickly as so-called. The royal chess game became part of the education of the elite's children centered around the ruler, and as a result also knighthood. In the 16th century, the popularity of chess is given by Jan Kochanowski's franchise containing a description of a particular maneuver known since the Middle Ages, which is a proof of professionalization. But in 2012, 5 years ago, in international research, which mainly examines mathematical competences and knowledge of natural sciences issues of 10-year-olds, Polish students were tragically, the worst in Europe. The aim of the project is to increase the math skills of Polish students, especially in terms of logic, spatial orientation, analytical thinking, problem solving, and shaping important personality traits such as responsibility, concentration and intuition. [[Applause]] Thank you. The Polish Chess Union in cooperation with the voivodship chess unions and local authorities has been running the project for 5 years now. According to the Polish Chess Union, the introduction of this game to education is a desirable part of the educational process concerning young Poles. The game of chess brings with it many positive indications, it shapes above all the ability of analytical thinking, develops creative sense, memory and intuition, as well as improves concentration and builds determination and perseverance. As has been observed, chess players learn faster and achieve higher scores. Going on: Chess as a game available to any social group can contribute to social inclusion and reduce the level of discrimination, crime and various addictions. And it is not a fiction, it is a fact proven in many countries, but not yet in Poland. Chess develops and exercises. Each primary school, which will devote at least one lesson per week to chess by teachers trained in this field, may join the project. The main objective of the project is to support mathematical education in early school education. The game of chess develops and exercises the child's spatial imagination, improves the coordination of movements, teaches the world's sides, the left, the right, but also allows to teach distance, teaches the world's sides, as I have already mentioned, but is also a specific form of geometry lessons, especially spatial ones, which will often help him in mathematics, physics and even techniques and other sciences. The influence of chess on the child's psyche is very important. The game teaches you to be responsible and to bear the consequences of your actions, as well as to act effectively under pressure, not even in the most difficult situations. A child who plays chess learns to cope with stress and failure, develops self-control, concentration, and learns respect for his opponent, because no opponent can be ignored. The game of chess prepares for healthy competition, where there is no room for brutality, insults and vulgarism. In view of the above, work on the introduction of this discipline, this royal game to Polish schools, should be started immediately. And it is worth thinking about the fact that the presence of this game in Polish schools has a much bigger dimension than it is today. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u327	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last weekend, i.e. 7 January this year, in the Radom Cathedral of St. The care of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place the silver anniversary of Fr. bp. Henry Tomasik. On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Bishop's sacrament there was a solemn Mass, which was attended not only by the faithful from all over Radom, but also by about 150 priests and 20 bishops and archbishops from Poland and abroad. 25 years ago, when the honorable Bishop was ordained bishop, our Christian community faced a fruitful time - the fruitful time of the bishop's work. After these years of cooperation, meetings and talks with Fr. bp. Tomasik I am extremely happy that we have such a wonderful and dedicated pastor for the community, who preaches with appreciation and humility the word of God as a daily signpost for us. The serenity of the spirit, the cordial approach to the people are only two features that characterize our bishop. His conduct and conduct set an example of living in harmony with the commandments and teachings of Jesus Christ. Without hesitation, he gives a helping hand to those in need and provides counsel. I am convinced that the future will bring much more joy to our Christian community, many emotions and beautiful moments with the participation of Fr. bp. Henry Tomasik and the whole community. I would also like to thank our pastor from this place for his unbroken service, and once again from this place I would like to make my heartfelt wishes for health, happiness, success and God's blessing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-11-sejm-56-1.u329	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 56th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 57th session of the Sejm, convened on 25 and 26 January 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 15]]
