ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Mr Kubov, Mr Olszówka, Mr Schreiber and Mr Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Krzysztof Kubów and Łukasz Schreiber. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 13.15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u3	I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers has notified the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the agreement of the Act, the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the International Carriage of Goods by Road (CMR) concerning the electronic consignment note issued in Geneva on 20 February 2008 Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report was delivered to the State in print No 2994. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the present meeting of item 30.: First reading of the Commission's draft law on ensuring a decent memory and proper protection for the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising, print No. 2920. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Electronic Invoicing Act in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnership, print No 2965. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency, - amending the Law on State Labour Inspection, - about the wheels of the country housewives, - about the public documents. The reports shall be in prints No. 2964, 2980, 2979 and 2961 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the case of the printing reports Nos 2964, 2980 and 2979 agreed to the application of Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on the selection of the supplementary Secretary of the Sejm, - on changes in the personal compositions of the Parliamentary Boards. Applications are in prints 2982 and 2999 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. Formal applications. Mr Szczerba, Member of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is November 9, the International Day for Combating Fascism and Anti-Semitism. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] Today is the 80th anniversary of crystal night. In many parliaments on this day, we are reminded of this tragic anniversary... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Sit down.]] ...which was foretold by the Holocaust was a prelude to destruction. On the night of 9 to 10 November 1938, the streets of German cities were covered with fragments of glass and crystals from destroyed Jewish apartments and shops. There was a planned action of NSDAP assault troops dressed in brown shirts. 91 Jews were murdered, almost all the Jewish cemeteries in Germany were desecrated, and a thousand synagogues were burned or damaged. There has been an escalation of violence against Jews. Today in every parliament should [[♪ The bell ♪]] To say the words: never again. And let us remember the words of John Karski: Whoever does not condemn, he permits it. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u5	Thank you. Mr President, although this is an important statement, an important point, I would point out to you that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, you know what?]] ...because this speech of yours cannot be considered a formal application. Mr Richard Petru, near the Liberal and Social Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal application in the same way as Jarosław Kaczyński submits formal applications. I read on the Internet that I was punished with a three-month loss of half my salary for non-parliamental statements. [[Applause]] Mr Tarczynski for calling one of the MPs an idiot... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and before that, the president was a bastard, if...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u7	Mr President, please make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u8	Mr. Marshal, this is important. I have a question about Jarosław Kaczyński, who... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u9	Mr President, your speech is not a formal proposal. Please leave the podium. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Sit down.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I would like to point out to you that your speech is not a formal proposal. Please leave the podium. That's the second time I've said it. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm addressing you right now under Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Three, and I call you back to order. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, formal applications, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, must be submitted in writing. [[Voice from the room: And Kaczyński wrote in writing?]] I'll make the decisions as to whether they're right. Because otherwise, I will have to take into account the regulatory consequences. I would like to remind you that the Modern Posel Club has requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: Review of the parliamentary draft resolution on calling on the executive authorities of the Republic of Poland to initiate or take appropriate action in order to implement the European Commission's recommendations of 20 December 2017. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point: Review of the draft resolution on calling on the executive authorities of the Republic of Poland to initiate or take appropriate action, in order to implement the European Commission's recommendations of 20 December 2017, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. There were 162 votes against and 238 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 2951-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Education Law and the Law on the system of education and other laws, print No 2861. Ladies and gentlemen! New solutions in the field of vocational training are the subject of changes to these laws. After discussions at committee meetings and in relation to clubs' positions at second reading, I can say with certainty that the proposed directions of change, i.e. adapting vocational education to the needs of the labour market, linking employers with vocational training and improving the quality of vocational training, are those directions of change and adopted solutions that you have accepted. This is very important because vocational training, the reconstruction of vocational training is a very difficult and multi-annual process. In order for the proposed legal solutions to be successfully implemented for young people learning in secondary schools and for the Polish economy, there must be good cooperation. This burden is mainly imposed on municipal authorities, which are expected to prepare professional advice for young people in classes VII and VIII, district authorities which will prepare schools to implement a new offer of vocational training, but above all on employers in the local and regional labour market, who have participated in the creation of this offer and are very looking forward to a change in vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commissions: Education, Science and Youth and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy at their meeting on 8 November considered the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission has examined 42 amendments and proposes 6 amendments to be rejected and 36 amendments to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u11	Thank you. I'd like to remind you that it's print number 2951. The amendments tabled in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 7 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Education Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant's laws propose to add paragraph 8. 15a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 161 votes against and 256 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The second amendment proposes amendments to Article. The 29th Bill. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 409, 3 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, a different wording of point 2 of Article is proposed. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 laws. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 413 voted no-one opposed, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment proposes a different wording of the Article. 110 laws. Amendment 35. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4 and 35, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - 1 and abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In amendments 5 to 7, applicants propose amendments to Article. 168, Art. 169 and Art. 176. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments from 5 to 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 421 votes, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 8 to 12 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending law containing amendments to the Education System Act. In amendments 8 to 10, applicants propose amendments to Article. 22an bill. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment calls for the procedure for the approval of school textbooks for vocational training to be restored. The Minister of Education should allow school textbooks to be used after obtaining a positive opinion from experts appointed by the Minister. Relevant textbooks are one of the factors of the quality of education. Resignation of this activity in the project is limited to manuals for vocational education. This is an inappropriate, incomprehensible solution, and it is a misunderstanding to get rid of the list of experts. Perhaps it would be appropriate to amend the procedures for the approval of the professional manual and not to give up admission to school use. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u13	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendments from 8 to 10, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 216, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 44zh Act applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 11, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. There were 410 votes in favour, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th Amendment, applicants propose to add Article in the Act. 44zzra. Amendment 34 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 12 and 34 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 414, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments since 13. by 18. they have been notified in Article. 6 draft amending act containing amendments to the Teacher Card Act. In the 13th amendment to the article. 6a The applicant's laws propose to repeal paragraph 6a. 14.18. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Regulation of 29 May 2018 on specific criteria and methods for assessing teachers' work is completely incomprehensible to teachers. The ambiguity of the criteria, their discretion, is that they can be prepared in 25 thousand. institutions and will be completely different, causing many conflicts to arise in the teaching environment. Let me remind you that teachers' trade unions, both ZNP and Solvency, protested very strongly against these records. The Minister insisted for a long time on the meetings of the Education Committee to introduce this and to try to fight these records for at least a year - I don't know what to call it. I believe that they are very unfavorable and I appeal to your PiS Members to approve this amendment, because it is really very good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u15	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 13, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 225, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 14, 18 and 36. applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 10a and Article 10a 91b of the Act and to Art. 165 draft law. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 14, 18 and 36, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 422 voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 15th amendment to the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 point 3 of the Act propose the new wording of point (a) of the Act. c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 64 voted against - 255, with 103 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 16 and 37 propose amendments to Article. 70a of the Act and to Art. 165 draft law. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 16 and 37, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 417, against - 6, with 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 17th amendment to the article. 73 The applicant's laws propose that paragraph be added. 10k. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 17, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 201, against 217, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 19 and 20. applicants shall propose an amendment to Article. 26 Natural persons Income Tax Act and Art. 18 Corporate Income Tax Act. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 19 and 20, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 394 against - 25, with 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In amendments 21 and 22, applicants propose amendments to Article. 31th draft law. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 21st and 22nd, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 421 votes against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 31 of the draft law propose to add point 20a. Amendment 42 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 23rd and 42nd, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 423 voted, no one was against it, no one was against it, no one was against it, no one was against it, no one was against it, no one was against it, no one was The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 24th amendment to the article. 41 The applicant's laws propose to add point 6a. Amendment 38 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 24 and 38, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 413 voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 25. to Article. 44 point 6 of the draft law propose a new wording of point (a). a. Amendment 26 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 25th and 26th, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 420, no one was against, no one was against 3. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In amendments 27 to 29, applicants propose amendments to Article. 44 draft law. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for these amendments to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 27.-29., raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 30th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 131a. Amendment 39 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 30th and 39th, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 31st amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 147. Amendment 40 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 31st and 40th, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 420, no one voted against, one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 32nd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 157a. Amendment 41 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 32nd and 41st, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 313, no one voted against, 108 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 33rd amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 165. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 33rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 418 voted in favour, no one voted against, no two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Mr Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not true that the claim that this law, the amendment of this law that we are introducing today, was your idea at committee meetings and in the parliament hall, is not true. I would like to say that the reconstruction of vocational education began by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2008. It was a professional school period of positive choice. It was a European-funded project aimed at supporting systemic changes in vocational education. Let me remind you that since 2012 we have been talking about vocational school as a positive choice school, as reflected in the revision of the Education Act of 1 September 2012. That is why we will support this bill. I also hold Ms Machalek's word, who said yesterday at the joint committee meeting that she would agree with our proposal to change the criteria for assessing teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u17	Thank you. The Minister of Education, Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, thanks to all the countries who worked on the bill, thanks to Minister Machalek, who worked with employers for a year, continued the work of Minister Teresa Wargocka. Yes, it's a long-awaited bill, which employers were looking forward to most of all, because for the first time, we are so really linking education to the labour market. A young man will be at his employer's and the employer will be at school. Yes, we've made a decision to evaluate the teacher's work. Together with the trade unions I have an appointment with next week, we will come up with an amendment, an amendment, because, indeed, the regulation, which seemed simple, has led to bureaucratic absurdities within two months. One rulebook can count 134 pages. This amendment of yours is simply underdeveloped. It has to be done in a responsible way. We have confidence in teachers and directors. Therefore, we will work with them on this mechanism. I just want to say one more thing. In the vicinity of the century of regaining Polish independence, it is necessary to hear that this law also responds to all the needs and requests of Poles living abroad, parents and teachers. Namely we end with the absurd technical name SPK. Finally, the expected Polish schools will appear, this will be the name, and teachers who teach, whether at the school at the consulate or at the association school, will carry out professional promotion regardless of the number of hours. It is a long-awaited change, with greetings for Poles living abroad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u19	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2951, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 424 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Education Law Act, the Education System Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2921-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law, print No. 2862. Ladies and gentlemen! It's another deregulation bill. These are several dozen changes in a number of different laws, changes in economic law and tax law. It's a simplification, it's the elimination of unnecessary obligations. These changes are good, financially beneficial for companies that will facilitate the running of companies, e.g. increase the income threshold for obtaining the status of a small taxpayer from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 2 million or the possibility of a one-off deduction of the tax loss of up to PLN 5 million. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very beneficial bill. Five amendments were tabled at the second reading that took place yesterday. The Commission recommends that amendments 1 and 2 be adopted and that amendments 3, 4 and 5 be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u21	Thank you. Let me remind you: print 2921, the amendments tabled in this report, tabled to the High Sejm. We will vote over them first. In the first amendment to Article. 7 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. Amendment 2 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 10. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 193 votes against - 218, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete point 1 in Article. 11. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 225, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 26. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 191 voted against - 227, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about simplifying business. This, of course, is a good and right change, the right solutions, so we will support them. However, I have a question: Is it a simplification for entrepreneurs to announce 4 or 5 days before a given day off? In particular, on Wednesday, you passed a resolution, made a decision that Monday would be free. What are entrepreneurs supposed to do in this situation? Is that consistent? Minister, is this a coherent action? On the one hand, the Sejm committees are doing a titanic job, Members, to adopt good solutions, e.g. in the field of tax or economic law, as expressed in these provisions, and on the other hand, you are simply giving entrepreneurs one great chaos. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u23	Thank you. That's more of a question to the High House. The Sejm has made a decision, sir, it is difficult to argue with that. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 2921, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 420, no one voted against, there were two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. Third reading. The Commission, I would remind you, proposes that the draft law be adopted from print no. 2912. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Selling products to shops and restaurants by farmers is a very important thing, it is a very important law. However, I have been asking Minister Jurgiel and Minister Ardanowski for a long time, how does this apply to imports of maize from Ukraine? How do we compete with producers from Ukraine, where you can produce from genetically modified seeds, where the yield can be 30% higher, 40% higher ? We finish Polish producers. We will finish them off in this way if this import is not in any way... if this is not respected, it will not be verified by Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! If this continues, Polish tables will not be hit by healthy Polish food, but will be hit by food that will harm us. It will also harm us in such a way that we will finish off the Polish farmer. And no magic, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft, no witchcraft. You have to stop importing corn from Ukraine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u25	Mr President, the subject of this draft law is another matter. You were referring to things... This doesn't apply to this bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2912 as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2893. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2893 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 413 against - 1 with one abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries. Print No 2922-A is an additional report. Third reading. I would like to ask Mr Zaremba to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 8 November, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation met and welcomed all 5 amendments tabled on behalf of the members of the Law and Justice Club. These amendments clarify the wording and meaning of the law notified by the Government on the amendment of the Maritime Fisheries Act and certain other laws, prints No 2810 and 2922. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You still have 15 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u27	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments tabled in the report. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Maritime Fisheries Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 51th Bill. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 420, no one was against it, no one was against it, no one was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 53th Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 412 against - 2, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to repeal paragraph. 3a in Article 70 bills. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 415, against - 1 and abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 10 draft law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - 1 and abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 12a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 285 voted against - 132, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2922, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 421 votes, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was The Sejm passed a law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the Central European Institute. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at second reading. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without referring the draft law to the committee. We therefore proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law contained in the print report No 2969. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The question is asked by Mr Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 27 years the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe has been operating in Lublin. Initially, he acted as an association, an association of the institute, and since 2001 as a research and development unit. The institute and its first director were initiated by the Institute. Professor Jerzy Kłoczowski. He was an outstanding historian, professor of KUL, participant in the Warsaw Uprising and a great intercessor of Central and Eastern Europe. I personally met many publications of this institute, attended meetings and conferences. It's really a bunch of professionals, passionate people, high-level science. This is class. And here comes the government project that's taking out this institute. The project is being processed at a rapid pace. Tuesday night [[♪ The bell ♪]] First reading, Wednesday - second, today's rejection.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u29	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u30	Please, High House, let's think, in today's history, when we talk about the achievements of our century...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u31	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u32	...let's not liquefy something that's good. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u33	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in print 2969, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 225, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole draft law, the question is asked by Genowef Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal once again because the opinions that came to the committee from the Polish Academy of Sciences and from the committee of conferences of academic rectors did not leave a dry thread on it, but they came after the deadline. Nobody knows those records. The Polish Academy of Sciences admits that although it is called a scientific unit, but it is not a reform of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, it is its liquidation. The new institution has completely different tasks, objectives and nature or legal status. On the other hand, in the opinion of the committee of conferences of academic rectors, which also came after the deadline, they even say that it is not possible to call this new body an institute. It could be literally a government center or a government committee. High Izbo! Mr. President Kaczyński! I have a favor to ask. I'm sorry to address you personally, but I'm addressing you as a man of science. Can we [[♪ The bell ♪]] destroy Polish achievements at such a rate? Really, let's keep this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u35	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u36	...a mess. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u37	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2969 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 230 voted against - 187, 4 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the Central European Institute. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The additional committee report is in print No 2949-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In accordance with the additional report of 8 November 2018 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of gas oil used for agricultural production, print 2914, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I propose that the High Sejm reject the two amendments tabled, which should be voted on together and, at the same time, adopted the draft law mentioned earlier in the report of the Committee on Printing No 2949. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u39	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, it's a 2949 print. We will vote on the amendments tabled first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose that, when calculating the tax refund limit, the consumption of gas oil of 120 l per hectare of agricultural land should be accepted. Amendment 2 is linked to it. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister of Agriculture! Dear Members, This amendment of the Civic Platform is real, real, practical, a bow towards the farmer. It's a reduction in its production costs and cheaper food for us. This should be higher, a limit of 1 ha, not 20 l, not 50 l, minimum. From whom should farmers expect help, if not from the Polish government? At the meetings of the agricultural committee, we proved that the consumption per hectare is 200 l, from 150 l to 200 l, that farmers lose 200 PLN per hectare. It's not my fault. All cataclysms, droughts and diseases make this food expensive. Now there's a real bow towards the state. Will you help us, or do you understand this subject? [[Voice from the room: We will help.]] Will the matter go to the Platform's amendment? She is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the only real one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u42	Unless you have an even bigger amendment, which is what we're waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u43	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Why raise this limit only to 120 liters? After all, farmers often have to use more fuel to produce their products, produce food. Another point is: Why is there no distinction? Depending on the so-called. ground bonite class, soil farmer must use fuel more or less, so it's a little too easy to put in one of these numbers: 120 liters, and that's it, it's a little too easy. [[It was 100 before that.]] Maybe it'd be worth it... Mr Ajchler, that's right, now it's in the first place 100. So maybe it's worthwhile to work on developing these solutions so that farmers can benefit from it in real terms? If farmers benefit, we will all benefit, consumers, because we will be able to buy cheaper products that farmers produce and which we all consume. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u45	Please. Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski requests the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I assume the good will of the questioning gentlemen, but on what basis do they base any specific figures related to the refund of excise duty? It is difficult to determine the actual fuel consumption on each farm. And scientists don't really know about it either. This is given in a very wide range: from 80 l to 120.130 l, maybe in extreme cases, in the case of difficult areas, mountain areas or very watery soils, this consumption is higher. It would probably be appropriate, as the Member suggests, to vary this very precisely depending on the shape of the field, on the type of soil, on the inclinations, on everything that undoubtedly affects the farm. You're just imagining how complicated an administrative mechanism is. should such differentiated support for agricultural fuels be introduced? This is a mechanism that does not exist in all European countries. Farmers don't have cheaper fuel everywhere. This is realized in the form of a separate fuel, colored, consumed only and exclusively for the drive of agricultural machinery and tractors, as well as by returning the public tribute part, which is excise duty. We've accepted a simple rule. We accepted it in 2006, when Law and Justice introduced a refund of excise duty for farmers, then setting it at 86 l, only in terms of field cultivation. This year we are going a step further, extending it to 100 l per hectare grown in Poland and introducing a unique privilege or reduction of costs in farms that have cattle, where the costs of domestic transport - not the costs of growing the field, but the costs of transport - are high, because the transport of feed or animal manure generates additional fuel consumption. We extend this possibility immeasurably, we will spend about 1,200 million PLN per year, but at the same time it is some kind of averaging, in order to simplify it, it is about the mechanism and the costs associated with the implementation of this task. I will also remind you that the principle is extremely simple and friendly for farmers. As regards the fuel purchased by the farmer, the invoices which are clearly received at the fuel stations are transferred twice a year to the municipality office, which is closest to the farmer's place of residence, and the municipality office from the funds provided by the Ministry of Finance pays the funds which are due to the farmer. It is an extremely simple mechanism. Of course, we can talk about the diversity of this with regard to the situation of farms and the special conditions of cultivation, but I am not convinced that you will be satisfied with the fact that in some farms this is fuel consumption, for which we will return funds, will not be 100 l, but for example. 80, because then it would be fully reproduced on individual farms. That is why I am absolutely convinced that this mechanism, which is simple, efficient, averaging fuel consumption on farms, which introduces an additional category for large farms, especially important for large livestock farms, is a mechanism that helps farmers very well. On the other hand, how we will increase, improve, correct this mechanism in the coming years is an open matter and this will be the decision of the High House. This year it is a very expected action by farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u47	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 205 voted against - 208, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear Members, Minister! Were you at the last meeting of the agricultural committee? You weren't. Have you been given the climate and the atmosphere of the farmers? Yeah, I guess so. What would you look like if there were, the entire Council of Ministers? I guess panties wouldn't be dry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The climate was terrible, unacceptable. Everything must refer to certain times, to certain realities. Today we have the price of fuel - within 3 years, from December 2015 to today - by a greater zloty. That means the cost is more than 200 zlotys. You give 14 zlotys. Guys! And the limit of gallons per ha? They're experts, state-owned economics... They're clearly saying what they're like... You know them. I am an expert farmer, and I know that in the dry year, this year, there was consumption this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Over 200 l per hectare. That's why I only think...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u49	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u50	...so that the government must... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u51	Thank you, sir. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. However, sir, I would ask that we talk about fuel rather than parts of the wardrobe. [[The joy, the chatter in the hall]] [[Mr. Marshal, that's an inappropriate remark.]] There you go. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This discussion is best demonstrated by what absurd state we really live in, because this system is neither simple nor cheap nor legitimate. On the one hand, the State imposes a huge tax burden on the fuel price, because we already know how much tax costs are in the fuel price, and on the other hand it is gracious to say that some citizens, in this case farmers, will exempt from these charges. The Minister explained to us here - and Members - that it is up to us, now maybe we should take into account the voucher class, or maybe we should take into account whether it is a dry or rainy time, and then we must pass it on to the municipal office, where we must hire more taxpayers to return this excise duty. After all, the whole discussion that went through the speakerium here, it's one big absurd thing. And you as a government for three years have only led to the fact that this system hasn't simplified itself, but has made it even more complicated, and instead of removing the tax burden, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're just increasing them by introducing additional fuel charges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u53	Thank you very much. Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You're gonna cause even more drought than this year. Why? Because farmers need to deepen their fields, and you know perfectly well that in deep-seaing it is one ha often and 40 l, and more. And it's not a fairy tale. If we do not ensure that farmers are completely exempt from excise duty, as in the United States of America, with regard to separate distributors, nothing good will come of this, because food costs are above all about agriculture, fuel costs, just high fuel costs. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, that's right.]] If it is necessary to eliminate the effects of drought in order simply to counteract droughts, it is necessary to add fuel to it, all taxation must be abolished... [[That's what I'm talking about.]] ...and create a simple law because it will make food costs lower. Minister! If you want to fight the drought, it's mostly fuel, because thanks to the fuel you put in, [[Applause]] We will be able to deepen the fields and then the effects of drought will be less. ♪ So I'm rooting for and ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm giving you some good advice. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u55	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2949 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - no one, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. We would like to return to the review of item 9 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2019. This is print number 2975-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed 12 amendments tabled at second reading. Amendment 11 received a positive recommendation from the committee. The other amendments were rejected. I therefore recommend, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, the adoption of draft Law No 2975 in its entirety, together with Amendment 11. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u57	Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is obvious. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. In fact, I would like to inform you that the amendments in question will be voted first. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Question. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u58	November 11th, the century of independence. Your gift... [[Voice from the room: We know!]] ...for the next year it freezes the social benefit fund for 8 million budget workers and the economic sphere, for 500 000. teachers, for 450,000. retired police officers, firemen and soldiers. You freeze this fund when you help others or even give away money to different agencies. That's not right. You're taking away every single one of the 254 zlotys you've ever worked. The trade unions do not agree with this - neither.Solidarity, nor OPZZ. This is your present on 11 November for every citizen - taking 254 PLN. That's what the Poles should remember. That's the kind of gift you're gonna give them. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u59	That wasn't a question. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 171 voted against - 220, with 14 abstentions. [[Mr. Marshal, please slow down.]] The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As soon as PiS took power, he started destroying the spending rule. The spending rule is a mechanism designed to protect citizens from populists. In front of populists like the PiS, who like to buy a voter, unfortunately always with his own money. And the destruction of this expenditure rule lasts in the best, also in this bill, for next year. Hence my question to the Minister of Finance. Minister! Why is it that, in a time of excellent economic prosperity, when the revenue of the budget is very high, what the government boasts of as if it were its merit, although it is not, why do you not close the spending rule for the next year for 3 billion PLN? After all, this is the application of the principle: even the flood after us. I would like the Minister of Finance to answer if 3 billion zlotys are money that didn't fit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You guys are next year's spending policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u61	Thank you, Member. One more question. Mr Gabriel Masłowska, club of Law and Justice. The Minister wants to answer? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask if it is true that the previous government of the Platform and PSL used the freezing of write-downs on the company social fund. And so on. for civilian workers it was frozen at 2010 and for many years, also for teachers, it was not de-freezed. So what we're doing right now is freezing or is that frostbite? If it weren't for those rules, [[Applause]] it would have been frozen at 2012 level. We're freezing it off. And second question, while I'm here, Minister. Is it true that the state of public finances is good enough that we do not need through the various manipulations that our predecessors have used to artificially reduce the scope of the spending rule? After all, we have a very low budget deficit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] low public debt - 50%...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u64	...while Germany is 75%, etc. Well, then... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u65	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Tomasz Robaczyński, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As regards the expenditure rule, all the amounts that are included in the draft State budget fall within the expenditure rule. The use of funds collected in individual funds is actually a rational use of these funds, without the need for additional sovereign debt. So much for the spending rule. On the other hand, in terms of freezing the benefit fund - in fact, this fund has been frozen for many years. This is one of the first steps that have been set out in this budget to gradually unfreeze the social benefit fund. I would like to point out that the draft state budget also includes a number of programmes which de facto finance those items which are financed from the social benefit fund: 286 million for free textbook, 1400 million for good start, 550 million for state aid for nutrition, or 450 million for the programme. I would also like to stress that particularly in this budget, the Minister of Finance has drawn attention to the issue of employee benefits, and this is also reflected in the freezing of the basic amount for workers - for the first time in many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u67	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted to correct.]] No. [[Why not?]] He wasn't quoting you, so don't bother me. We'll proceed with the vote. Which one of you... [[What's this?]] Madam, I urge you, please don't disturb me. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. There were 181 votes against, 225 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. 179 voted against - 214, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. The vote was 183, against 218. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] He turned it down. I'm sorry. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 178 voted against - 227, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[But, Marshal, I ask the question.]] Amendments 6, 7, and 13. applicants shall propose a new wording of Article. 6 and Article 6 7 and amendment to Article 7 25 points 1 to 3. [[What's this?]] [[There's been a call.]] We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u68	I have the first question for you, Marshal: If Mrs Leszczyn is voting, then why is he not looking at the hall, but at the cards you have prepared? [[Applause]] [[If it were written down, it'd be on those cards.]] Secondly, the State proposed that the post-graduate traineeships of doctors, nurses, midwives, dentists should be financed by the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. This is another gift. Why are you doing this? Why are you taking money from the employers' fund collected in case of difficult situations, the insolvency of establishments - to provide employee salaries? Previously on The Labor Fund. We propose... Why are you against starting the Labour Fund as the Minister of Health, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, started it? It wasn't an expenditure rule. And, Mr. Marshal, it must be said that here in this courtroom, there are a number of tricks to circumvent the spending rule. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The program is funded by the Polish people, not by the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u69	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u70	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Is it true that the state of the resources collected in the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is so secure that we can, without any risk to carry out the tasks appropriate to this fund, allocate this amount to the financing of specialisations, traineeships, etc.? [[But it's the employers who pay.]] Is it true that at the end of 2019 it will amount to PLN 1433 million and annually is allocated from this fund to the payment of benefits, to remuneration in the event of bankruptcy of companies 130 million PLN? So, even if there were no annual revenue to supplement this fund, we still have a very large reserve for many, many years, not risking defaulting tasks typical of this fund. Is it possible to say that the government, by doing so, is trying, in the sense of responsibility [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the public finances of the state, at the same time rationalise the spending of public funds so that they do not lie unused... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u71	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 6, 7 and 13, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 182 voted against - 232, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We'll proceed to the vote... I'm sorry. In the 8th amendment to the article. 8 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1 and 2. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like you to reply to the High House, or the responsible government, responsible for public finances, should respect the expenditure rule. That's the first question. Secondly, please explain to Mrs Masłowska and the High House that spending PLN 3 billion from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund which you are planning for next year is a circumvention of the expenditure rule, because this fund is outside the expenditure rule. That's the second question. And three: Please tell me, has the Civic Platform ever financed medical and nursing internships from this fund, which is outside the rule?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u73	Madam, the questions are about the 8th amendment. [[But they do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u74	Three questions, Minister. I ask you to give the High House an honest answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u75	You say no about it. [[But they do, Mr. Marshal.]] Madam, I draw your attention. Let me remind you that the 8th amendment is: in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 words for the Guaranteed Benefits Fund are replaced by the words for the Work Fund. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I asked!]] Who among you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 165 voted against - 231, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u76	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If the marshal had read it, it was the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund... [[Exactly.]] ...and bypassing the spending rule. And now I wanted to refer to the amendment that we tabled. We need money to upgrade the police services, the State Fire Department. We have proposed - I think you will welcome this very much, Mr Minister too, because it is a good amendment - that we increase the amount, change the destiny from the Minister of National Defence, from the military funding to the financing of the modernisation programme, so important. We propose that the amount of PLN 1 billion should be allocated for this purpose. [[But Mr Darkness disagrees.]] I didn't ask the Minister. That's not your question. You lost the Radom election, and you should be a little calmer. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The campaign's over. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Darkness, Darkness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u77	Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are proposing to transfer funds for the modernisation of the army to the modernization of the police. Both the military and the police need to be modernised. And I have a question: will you be honest enough to verify this amount? [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, please urge you and your fellow Members not to shout. Thank you. Will you be honest enough to update the nominal number of percentages that are spent on modernising the military and on our national defence? I'm asking, because if you cut it off at 0.5 billion, at 1 billion, it's not going to be the famous 2%. The same is true, ladies and gentlemen, for the thermomodernization program. You're talking about spending 100 billion zlotys. You might as well say that you will spend PLN 1 trillion, and next year you will update your regulations and say that you will give $100 million. Is that fair? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u79	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 186 voted against - 227, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 18. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u80	The question to the Minister of Finance, which was very specific earlier in the form of an introduction, which Mrs Leszczyn referred to. You introduce reserves, you waive the general rule of the Public Finance Act, over 5%, you do it for a year. But that's a rule you're skipping the spending rule. Why do you want to... Or do you want to spend money on public television? How about another $2 billion present for President Kurski? We do not agree to such budget devastation, because in this case it is to circumvent the expenditure rule, to take money or to freeze the amount of the basic social benefit fund, i.e. to take workers, and to take businesses from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, which could be needed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if the parties are in a difficult situation. Why are you doing this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u81	Thank you, Member. Minister Tomasz Robaczyński, Deputy Minister of Finance, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This provision does not concern the expenditure rule at all. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This provision concerns the suspension per year of the provision that reserves may amount to 5% expenditure of the budget. The reserves that exceed this amount, the percentage set out in the Public Finance Act, are simply based on the laws adopted by the High Sejm. It is therefore necessary to amend this provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u83	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. There were 187 votes against, 226 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 20a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 201 against - 170, 37 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 24. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 188 voted against - 207, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the project as a whole, the question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u84	In 2018 10 million Poles will take 254 PLN. Poles should remember that. You violate the spending rule, you violate the Public Finance Act. The state, the government, when proposing this, takes it, takes the money that they collect from entrepreneurs. In this case, it is a kind of tax paid by entrepreneurs. Why are you doing this to Poles? After all, Poles are a worthy nation. That you can't organize the march, it's true, but that you're robbing them, reaching into their pockets on your fanaber, that's very strange. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u85	Thank you very much. I'm just paying your attention to talking about it. [[...same reviews?]] Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This bill is like a creative accountant's product, and it can be summarized. You're celebrating the spending rule, and that's a fact. The money from the special funds collected there is hard, with difficulty by entrepreneurs for a specific purpose you spend on everything, but not on what the fund was called for. You are freezing the base rates despite good economic conditions and, as you assure, good budgetary position. The rates also apply to the administration. But best of all, you only increase your reserves so that in the next campaign the Prime Minister can drive all over the country and promise different investments and gifts, but the voters have already told you clearly: it doesn't work. It doesn't work, you don't fool with these gifts of Poles. [[Applause]] [[The chops on the train...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u87	Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a part of the articles you will take us back by 5 years - by 2013. Of course, the Civic Platform froze the articles, froze the base amounts - you do the same. Question: "Why, since this situation is really so good, is there supposed to be a surplus?" Maybe the money isn't there after all. And the truth is that this whole around budget bill would not be necessary if the law in Poland had been well written for many years and if budgets were well implemented by all governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u89	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2975 in its entirety, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 229, against 168, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019. We are returning to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with strengthening supervision and investor protection in the financial market. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2863-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Public Finance Commission on print No 2863-A on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and protection of investors in the financial market from print No 2812. The Sejm at its 71st meeting on 7 November 2018, in accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2863 to the Committee on Public Finance to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. 24 amendments were tabled, of which 15 were accepted by the committee, 9 were rejected. I therefore request that the High Sejm adopt a draft law in accordance with the committee's proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u91	Thank you. It's printing number 2863. The amendments that have been tabled in the additional report will be voted first. I would like to inform you that the applicants have withdrawn Amendment 8. In the 1st Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Act, applicants propose amendments to Article. 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's Amendments 3 and 16 connect to it. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! I have a question about these changes in the field of thermomodernization, these reliefs. Why aren't you taking multi-family homes into account? This was discussed during the parliamentary debate, and we have drawn your attention to it, and many of the Members of the Party have pointed out that, and these changes have not been introduced. Therefore, the question is: Why will owners of multi-family homes not be able to benefit from the preferences granted to owners of single-family homes? Besides, they're granted right, but you can't discriminate against someone... [[That's not the bill.]] ...only because he lives in a multi-family home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u93	Thank you. Who's the minister... [[That's not the bill, Marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1, 3 and 16, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. In 224 against 146, 26. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Corporate Tax Act proposes not to add point 30a. Amendments 11, 12, 13., 17 and 18. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 14 and 22. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of amendments 2, 11, 12, 13, 17 and 18, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 187 voted against - 215, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th Amendment to the Law on the Publication of Normative Acts and certain other acts, applicants propose amendments to Article. 8, Art. 12, Art. 17, Art. 22 and Article 22 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Amendments 6 and 23 join with it. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4, 6 and 23, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. The vote was 226 against - 152, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the Capital Market Surveillance Act, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 39 (1) (a) 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill, it's what military airmen say, a flare that's supposed to distract you from something important. That's what's important about GetBack. The PiS can't handle this case, and the Financial Supervision Commission didn't manage to deal with it at some point. And how does the PiS government react, and KNF? Namely reacts in such a way that he avenges Polish citizens and their companies. What do we have in this bill? Well, in this bill we have an extension of the KNF control time from 6 months to a year. What do we have on this bill? We have extended the period of possible blocking of Polish citizens' accounts and their companies from 2 days to 4 days. This is the strengthening of control instruments, so why wouldn't we have a GetBack scandal? There's still no bill lockdown here tonight. This is harassment of Polish citizens and their companies. The question is: Is it just because of the GetBack scandal [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you take revenge on Poles or because you lost the local elections? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u95	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 210, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 7 to 11 were tabled in Article. 9 draft amending act containing amendments to the Financial Market Surveillance Act. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15. [[Mr. Marshal, seven o'clock or eight o'clock?]] Seven o'clock, eight o'clock is gone. Mr. President, there is no eight o'clock.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u96	Yes, thank you. Mr. Marshal, there's been a terrible misunderstanding. Well, at the previous amendment, I asked for the next point, but it's already a promotion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u97	I just noticed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u98	However, interestingly, none of the government even came to the attention of the fact that the question was about another law. But I'm gonna ask you again. Mr. Marshal, there are two specific questions about these amendments. First of all, in Amendment 3. - the one we've already had - you're proposing changes to the rules on the takeover of banks. So my question to the government is this: What banks do you want to take over or take over what banks do you want to make possible? That's one thing. Secondly, the question is that the Prime Minister or the representative of the President of the Council of Ministers should become a member of the KNF. Minister or esteemed applicant, why do you want to make such a change just now? After all, Amber Gold's case showed clearly and clearly that the Prime Minister's lack of participation, the lack of coordination by the President of the Council of Ministers of Labour, the coordinated work of the services [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Special, and coordinating financial supervision led to a great tragedy. Why did we have to wait three years for these changes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u99	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. 147 votes against 227 and 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let me remind you that Amendment 8 has been withdrawn. In the 9th amendment to the article. 16 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The vote was 237, against 141, with 21 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 16a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform. Amendment 10, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u100	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like I said, this bill is actually a front for the GetBack scandal. This article. 16a gives special powers, extraordinary powers to the President of the Council of Ministers to access all information, even those which are protected by separate laws. One change in this law and the President of the Council of Ministers can do anything. I ask: Since the President of the Council of Ministers is the former President of Bank Zachodni WBK, and in the famous letter the former President of GetBack demands gratitude from Mr Morawiecki, what does he want this gratitude for? Once again, I ask: Did GetBack buy out the unworthy claims of Bank Zachodni WBK? Who made the money out of it? Did GetBack buy out, as the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister was still Mr Morawiecki, for a huge amount of money not worth the claims of banks controlled by the Treasury? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean, it's a real scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u101	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 208, with 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose among others. retain the existing wording of the Article. 17 and Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 20 and amendments to Article 43a-43d Act on the handling of complaints by financial market entities The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u102	Mr. Marshal, thank you. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I have a question because you are proposing this law to introduce the Financial Education Fund. Maybe we've had enough of this kind of funding. It may be worthwhile to go towards creating an appropriate curriculum, including in the curriculum such subjects as: financial education, legal education, economic education. Because, unfortunately, I regret this - in Poland there is a low level of education and legal awareness, a low level of education and financial awareness, which is why citizens are often victims of various frauds, and also fall victim to your decisions, our decisions taken here in the plenary room. Because if citizens are aware of how much their money is collected in the form of various taxes and allocated to various nonsense funds, then I do not know if they are so eager to vote for all of you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u103	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 265 Members voted against 152 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and Article 1 Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 246 voted against - 144, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 24 of the draft law, the applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph 2. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 359, against - 25, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 33 draft law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. There were 249 votes against - 33, 122 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 38 draft law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 244, against 138, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 42a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 22nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 369, against - 22, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 44 draft law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 24th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 372, against - 20, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're going to vote on the whole thing. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is characteristic that no one has answered the difficult questions I have asked. These are questions about the GetBack scandal, about millions, not billions, of gold extorted from Poles. The question is: What gratitude did Konrad Kąkolewski demand from PiS? What did he ask for gratitude for? Is it true that GetBack was buying worthless claims from Bank Zachodni WBK? Is that true? Who made the money out of it? Is Prime Minister Morawiecki still holding the shares of Bank Zachodni WBK? How much did these surgeries increase? Is it true that GetBack purchased, as you have already ruled, nothing worth the claims of state-controlled banks and government-controlled banks? Who made the money out of it? Why don't you answer the simple questions? What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u105	The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're not afraid, we're talking about the GetBack affair. [[You're not doing anything.]] The GetBack scandal is an issue related to the Civic Platform environment, not our environment. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I have a question for the Minister. Does this act aim to increase the supervision of the financial market, which was not there during previous governments? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I'm gonna need you to set up a committee of inquiry.]] We're discussing the GetBack scandal, the committee, the press is writing about it. [[I'm gonna need you to set up a committee of inquiry.]] You guys were quiet about Amber Gold and sweeping her under the rug. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Minister, is this bill going to increase surveillance so there's no such thing as explaining it and educating society... [[Explain no.]] ...so it doesn't make mistakes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: Since when is Morawiecki on the Platform?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u107	Will the Minister answer or not answer? He won't answer. Mr Smolinski explained the matter. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then we vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 2863, along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 246 voted against - 146, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of financial market supervision and investor protection in this market. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2948-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report. Are you Mr Nobleman? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Where is he? [[Voice from the room: It's on.]] I think he's going because he's flying... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: He's running.]] He's running. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed two amendments that were tabled at second reading. Amendment 1 received a positive assessment of the committee, amendment 2 was rejected. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend to the High House that the Government draft Print Act No. 2948 be adopted, together with Amendment 1. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u109	Thank you very much. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the following Article. 26h. 1. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very good amendment. Thank you, Mr Cymanski, for this amendment, because it really makes this relief real. She's not fictional. On the other hand, this amendment has three essential features. First of all, it will be realized in the future, after the election, which means there's a promise here: if you're good, you'll have it. Secondly, it makes it really reach into someone else's pocket by handing out fruct, because these tax credits are going to finance taxpayers. We already know who's funding this 103 billion from the Prime Minister. And, thirdly, it's a relief for the rich. Because if someone mentions a furnace, it will be able to count off approx. 1 thousand. PLN of PIT in 3 years. And if someone is wealthy and will make a full thermomodernization, and is a payer who has exceeded the threshold of the second tax rate, he will be able to deduct almost 16 thousand already. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's the way to be Janosik a rebours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u111	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 407, against 1, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the financial implications of this law for the revenue of local governments. This bill will cause huge losses in the income of local governments due to PIT tax. It is estimated that it will amount to approx. PLN 8 and 10 billion. However, no compensation is foreseen in the project. First of all, this is incompatible with the Article. 166 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Secondly, local governments will lose huge money, and we know how much they are currently doing to improve air quality. And the government, instead of supporting them in these activities, is taking their money for this purpose. This is ridiculous. It's just outrageous. This amendment therefore aims to ensure that local authorities receive compensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u113	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 188, against 225, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question will be asked by Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Now the question will be asked at the right time. I repeat the question: Why do you exclude the possibility of benefiting from the preferences provided for by this law of owners of multi-family homes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u115	That's an important question. Will the Minister answer? Is he ready? We'll proceed to the vote... The Minister wants an answer. [[Bravo, Marshal!]] Mr Filip Świtała, Deputy Minister of Finance, will answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When asked why this relief does not apply to single-family homes... [[Voice from the hall: Multi-family.]] I'm sorry. Multi-family, yes. That question was answered by Minister Henryk Kowalczyk. Our goal was to patch a hole in the fact that single-family homes pollute the air most, this problem we wanted to solve first. As far as multi-family homes are concerned, they currently benefit from the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund bonus. This involves refinanceing part of the costs of thermomodernization projects. These bonuses are mainly used by owners of multi-family homes. There is a thermomodernisation audit carried out and there is a reimbursement of costs incurred for the implementation of thermomodernization projects. It has been estimated that the construction of these bonuses paid from the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund is sufficient for the time being, these bonuses are attractive enough to be used for renovations. In fact, in the case of multi-family homes, this is done in this way. On the other hand, the tax credit that we introduce for single-family homes is a complement of the "Clean Air" programme in the sense that it allows for deduction from the tax base, say, of our own expenditure, which is borne by the thermomodernization of our own single-family building. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u117	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 2948, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 14, with three abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. This is print number 2926-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report on Draft Print Act No 2906, the report is contained in print No 2926-A. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good law because through this law the government intervenes in a very poor area and at the same time a very important area, it is the inhabitants of cities, towns and municipalities. This is the aid that poorer people living in worse buildings will have the opportunity to warm their homes, to change their windows, and to exchange their heat sources. I think everyone understands the situation of these people, and the amendments that were tabled after the second reading are confusing this goal. The Committee on Infrastructure therefore simply proposes to reject four amendments and vote on the whole project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u119	There you go. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of the 2926 print project. We will vote on the amendments first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. In the first amendment, applicants propose in the following Article. 11c paragraph. 1 add new wording to point 2. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u120	Thank you. Mr. Speaker! Tell me the truth: you are sharing Poles again. This time you divide them into those living in the towns to 100,000. and on those who live in villages above 100,000. This is consistent with your logic when it comes to your electorate. But I have to tell you, after the local elections, it's wrong logic. In the city of Knurov, which has less than 100,000, there will be a surcharge for thermomodernization, in the city of Gliwice there will be no such surcharge. But in both towns, the PiS candidate lost the municipal election, so that doesn't explain in any way your reasons for the bill. [[That's not the point.]] I must say that there are so many cities in the Silesian Voivodeship that have the highest level of pollution, both in world and national rankings, that it is absurd to exclude any of them. I wonder how you Gliwice, Katowice, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Sosnowiec will vote on this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u121	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President Rzonec is completely unprepared for the report on the procedure of this law. [[The signal guy's here.]] I want to tell you very clearly: you exclude more than 10 million Poles living in 39 major cities. Yesterday the minister doubled and tripled to convince us that also residents of cities over 100,000. I will read what Minister Emilewicz said at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on 22 October: The estimated number of homes in which people live in energy poverty is about 850 000. These are mostly houses located in small resorts, in towns with less than 100,000 inhabitants. residents. Thus, improving the quality and energy efficiency of single-family homes is the primary objective of this regulation, which is additionally addressed to localities not exceeding 100,000. residents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another quote - thank you, Marshal - the proposed regulations define...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u123	Five more seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u124	...that all funding can be mobilised by means of an agreement which is concluded by the minister responsible for economic affairs with the municipality, i.e. up to 100,000. residents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u125	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President is right to say that this is a very good bill. That's why I have two questions. Why the villagers above 100,000 are excluded from this good law. Inhabitants, that has already been mentioned. That's one thing. Secondly, why will such a good and necessary law not enter into force on 1 January 2019 only when? In 2020 or 2021 Why should we wait? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u127	Mr Bogdan Rzońc, draftsman of the committee, will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u128	Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry to hear what your fellow Members have said. Minister Woźny explained yesterday at the committee meeting for an hour that it was not as you say that there was no exclusion, but that it was necessary to be able to read the whole of the bill. As far as the town record is concerned, it's up to 100,000. inhabitants, it is such a thing that there will be another financial assembly for those in the villages up to 100,000. residents and over 100,000. - another financial assembly. And the source was quoted. Take the bill in hand and read it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u129	It's clear. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 199, against 211, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose in the following Article. 11c paragraph. 1 add new wording to point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The World Health Organization has announced a list of 50 cities in the European Union where air is most polluted. 36 of them are in Poland. Many of these cities have over 100,000. residents, e.g. Kraków, Katowice, Gliwice, Zabrze, Sosnowiec, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Rybnik, Bielsko-Biała. In the meantime, however, you are excluding these cities from the government's support for thermomodernisation and the exchange of heating. This is not what the rapporteur says, because this criterion remains. If the intention is that you want to include these cities in the thermomodernisation programme, then please support this amendment. Then the case will be clean, and all cities will be able to benefit from this amendment. [[They'll be able to.]] Please remove this ridiculous record. And the question is, why doesn't the government want to fight smog where this fight would be the most effective because of population density? Why are you shutting down this city program where the smog problem is just [[♪ The bell ♪]] The biggest? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u131	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will remind you that the draft law in the Sejm is the responsibility of the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, not the Minister of Wozny. Minister Woźny was dismissed as Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology in February by Minister Emilewicz and should therefore not speak on this matter. I would like to see Minister Emilewicz perform here and tell you what the real truth is. Because the truth is, and you don't want to admit that you're ruling out a crowd of more than 10 million Poles... [[Voice from the room: What are you screaming about?]] ...from the possibility of applying for funding. This can't be right. I am well aware that you like to share Poles, but it is over a week ago. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u133	Mr. Chosen Man? [[Let me finish before the vote.]] We vote, ladies and gentlemen. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 183, against 225, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 11f. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. 156 voted against - 215, 24 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 7 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes to add a new wording to the paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Skibińska... [[Sibińska.]] Sibińska, I'm sorry. ...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the previous meeting, you excluded large cities from funding for road construction, and now you exclude them from thermomodernization. It is not as Mr Rozonec says, that this is a quick help for the poorest. 'Cause what kind of quick help is this, and what kind of pilot program is it that's only in 2021? It's three years we've been waiting to fly in and help these poor people fix their buildings, warm or replace the furnaces? Well, it's just forging what you want to do. But that's nothing, because in the meantime 0.5 million zlotys admit to themselves, I don't know what, probably to prepare the program. Ladies and gentlemen, PLN 0.5 million is a few decent jobs. So the question is, you're gonna hire more Misiewiczs, why? To prepare for three years a pilot program that supposedly supports the poorest? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u135	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Owa, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This programme should cover 850 000. single-family homes. In order to modernise all these buildings, only PLN 30 billion must be allocated from the state budget, and only 900 million in this law according to the existing provisions. That's only enough for $24,000. buildings. This amendment aims to make another $20,000 pot. the buildings are eligible for funding. This is, of course, very small when it comes to needs. What PiS had previously announced, PLN 104 billion - there is really no such money anywhere. Here is the chance to establish an effective source of support for the poorest, but it will take at least a few billion zlotys to do so. The adoption of this amendment is therefore fundamental - it is simply that it concerns at least 5.6% demand. This is an extremely important issue and it is worth supporting this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u137	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 188, against 225, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole question. Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem with this bill isn't even whether it covers cities over 100,000 or not, it's just that it's really pure deception, not clean air. [[Applause]] This bill says that we only support the poor in 31 cities, or 24,000. houses for 4.5 million, which require thermomodernisation. [[Applause]] And that's all we want to give money... [[Fiction!]] ...and that's the money taken from the thermomodernization program, which involved multi-dwelling buildings. So far, 180 million have been taken away, and the rest in turn is at the expense of Poles who, God forbid, will buy these plastic bags, because if they are ecological and will not buy, then there will be no money for nothing. This is fiction. And you've got good footage, and you've got it. We've put together a system project once again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The solutions to this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u140	...so the Poles can breathe clean air. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u141	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first package of two laws that concern clean air. Let me remind you that you have announced PLN 104 billion for this programme. In the previous law there were 4 billion, in this there is 1 billion. And where is 99 billion PLN to implement the entire clean air program in 10 years? [[You stole it.]] During the debate, we asked: show the sources where the money is, how much it is and how much it is in the years. You've done a bunch of voivodship environmental funds, but they don't smell like shit since you took over. They don't have any gold for that. The presidents don't know who's answering. They accept the proposals, but do not have the source of funding to carry out these tasks. This is what it's like to work and fight for clean air. But what I'm trying to say is that, despite all these reservations as the Modern Parliamentary Club, we will vote in favour of this bill. We're going to vote for this bill because it's worth saving at least $24,000. residential buildings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u143	Thank you. Of course, we are aware that money is odorless. Mr Robert Mordak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It may also be worthwhile in the government's bill to amend the Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation to remind that it is possible to finance thermomodernization in large cities only in 99%, so Law and Justice transfers this funding to those who have won with them in big cities, and there, of course, these local governments will have to reach the taxpayers' pockets and then it will be possible to thermomodernise single-family buildings also in large cities. But on this occasion, perhaps it would be worth considering the situation in order to eliminate the party subsidies, because then we could finance about 5% more. The thermomodernization of single-family buildings, and we voting for this bill, because it is right, we will appeal for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u145	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, rapporteur for the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't mean to say it, but sometimes the carps want to kill themselves for Christmas, that's your case. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, I will read to you the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 22 February 2018. I quote: a judgment stating that the Republic of Poland did not establish an effective system for protecting its citizens from contaminated air in 2007 and 2015. [[Applause]] [[Then why are you waiting three years?]] You didn't do anything, and now you're criticizing, because we're making up for these things, and we want to help ordinary people. I think at the last minute, ladies and gentlemen, you're going to think about what you're doing because the amendments were going to blur the bill. Now you're saying you're going to vote in favour. The bill is good, it can be corrected in the future, because we do not know how many willing to apply for thermomodernization, but there is a bill, there is the possibility of bringing help to poor people. Are you for or against it? Tell me. [[In three years.]] Tell me. You're very wrong when you say things like that. cities above 100,000 are excluded from this law. residents. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a pure lie, this is a lie. [[No.]] [[No.]] There are also multi-family facilities excluded, but they are financed not from this law, but from another law, but they are, because on such a scale as the Law and Justice no one has dealt with the problem of smog and [[Applause]] clean air in Poland, no one. [[In three years.]] And the Court of Justice wrote this to you, just read it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u147	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print 2926, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 412, 1 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2977. The question is asked by Mr Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The chaos that PiS introduced, creating the National Tax Administration, continues to be the best. Between fairy tales you can insert all stories about the extraordinary sealing of the tax system. We have higher tax revenues thanks to excellent economic conditions, high consumption, very low level of investment and because you have imposed more than 30 new taxes and danin on Poles for many billions. [[Applause]] What are you doing in this bill? You do not limit chaos in KAS, you limit the constitutional right of a taxpayer, who is a citizen, to pursue his claims before a court. That's what you do in this bill. Instead of fighting the VAT mafia, you are fighting against a small Polish entrepreneur whose Civic Platform will always defend, so we will vote against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u149	Thank you. But please ask questions. Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Reading various laws, such as those on which we voted today, you can get statutory schizophrenia, because we have already adopted laws that say that tax authorities are supposed to minimize the burden for entrepreneurs in connection with the calls they receive. And what are we going to vote on in this bill? Without authorisation or even in the absence of an economic operator or his representative, the official will be able to carry out checks - simply on the identity card and on suspicion of infringement. On what basis can such an infringement be determined? For example, on the fact that the trader will first file a tax return and then make an adjustment. This is your minimization of nuisance, as well as your struggle with smog. I have a question for Mr Rozza: Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For three years under your rule, air quality in Poland has deteriorated and has not improved? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u151	Thank you very much. We vote... Would Mr Schreiber like to speak? There you go, Mr. Łukasz Schreiber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to bring up two brief points.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u153	No, sir. It's about the question, not as an MP... There were no questions. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u154	That's what I'd like to answer. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] Because there were words here about it, information was given that there was no tax sealing. I would like to make you aware that the VAT gap has declined from 26 to 14%... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...that CIT and PIT revenues increased by 18 and 22%. And as far as control is concerned, it has to be said that control is 10,000. less than it was in 2015. It's about checks that concern businessmen. That's the truth. [[To whom is that a question?]] High Izbo! Let me put it this way: if someone doesn't see this action, if someone doesn't see this government commitment and if someone doesn't see it Moravian effect, you might say, congratulations. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Tusk made the VAT gap go down and there's money for 500+. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's right, that's right.]] [[He's right.]] [[Voice from the room: More such speeches.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u155	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Marian Banas, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Applause]] It is very sad, what the opposition Members said a moment ago, because they do not stick to facts and figures that do not lie, and they practice propaganda that is going to divide Poles. And the Poles won't be able to share. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The facts speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that between 2008 and 2015, when you were in power, the Polish budget lost almost PLN 262 billion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[And you've already lost 100.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Tax gap of 9% increased to 26%. We, the government of law and justice, the United Right... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[What is it, marshal?]] ...in less than two years, two and a half years, we've reduced this tax gap from 24 to 14. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] International organisations have said and predicted that this could happen no earlier than in 5 and 7 years' time. [[And it's not gonna happen.]] ♪ We're gonna ♪ We've done it in less than two years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, the state budget increased by PLN 42.5 billion. This year will also increase by almost 8%. All these instruments, which have been introduced in these amendments, serve to seal the tax system and reduce the gap, i.e. to combat the grey zone. That's what you wanted us to do to promote honest entrepreneurship. [[Applause]] [[But you're full of shit.]] What does fair entrepreneurship mean? Eliminating the gray zone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u157	There you go. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.2977, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 238 against - 156, with 19 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the National Tax Administration Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on debt restructuring of farm operators. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the bill to be passed. It's a project in print 2929. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One form of State aid for indebted farms is the possibility of transferring agricultural property to the Treasury. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture: Minister, does the entry into force of these rules mean the start of the process of nationalising agricultural land in the countryside, and do you agree? Because we know cases from the past, how it worked and what ended. Why do you fund the Polish village with such terrible, unwise and unwise regulations? Second line. What is the position of cooperative banks that serve farmers in their mass? Will the rules proposed by the government be effective and satisfactory for both parties? Will it not be so that in this operation with restructuring loans They're gonna lose most of the cooperative banks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u159	Please. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the miracle he's become. Over the past few months we have heard the Prime Minister and the Minister, as it is bad in agriculture, that agriculture is in debt, that there are big problems. And according to this law, it actually has only 1,700 farms. Is it that bad, or has the elections passed and improved significantly? Second question. Why aren't we helping those most in need? Why aren't we helping farms that are in liquidation and bankruptcy? They're the ones who need help now, not those who are in a good position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u161	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law is, to put it simply, nationalization, an attempt to nationalise parts of agricultural holdings in Poland. First, you shut down the farmers' market so they couldn't come out of trouble alone, and now you're talking straight to them: give us your father. And the way you do it is just outrageous. Because what does this bill say? Dear farmer, you have problems, you do not regulate your obligations, give us your land, and we will take over your obligations. What do you propose to farmers in return? Pay your dues, and we will then consider whether and under what conditions to give you this land. [[You want the bailiff to take it?]] Because the law does not regulate under which conditions in the meantime this land will be leased and under which conditions the land will be given to farmers. Even in the lease bill... As the lease is taken a car, there is [[♪ The bell ♪]] the known final redemption price. You guys today just...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u164	...nationalize Polish agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u165	Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Ardanowski asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, there will be no renationalization of private land in Poland. We are a formation that emphasizes very strongly the private property of land in agriculture. [[Applause]] These preferences, which we maintain with various suggestions, which narrow the rotation of the land to individual farmers, also show how we respect private property. The undisputed fact is that during many years of the functioning of Polish agriculture, some farms were in financial difficulties. Banks signal that there are several thousand farms that are unable to fulfil their obligations. Now should we passively look at the collapse of these farms so that the bailiffs can bid on these farms? [[Exactly.]] Do you want the only way for farmers to be able to bid on a bailout? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You can buy a mortgage or mortgage...]] Maybe somebody cares about that. We don't care about that. There are farms that are no longer able to implement any corrective programme, unfortunately. These are sometimes random situations, sometimes blamed by farmers themselves. Believe me, I am particularly sensitive to the sense of justice in the countryside, to the consultation of farmers who themselves claim that some farms have been in financial difficulties for subjective reasons. You can't generalize everything. We're putting in place a mechanism that leaves the farmer with a choice. It's not like anyone's forcing anyone to do anything. Therefore, for those farms that have the chance to restructure their debt, we introduce a mechanism that allows it, and for those that are no longer able to restructure their farms, so that there is no bail-out situation, we introduce the possibility to settle with the Treasury also with the help of this land. This is a very good mechanism. I am convinced that for many farmers this really is a way out of the situation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u167	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2929 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The vote was 220, against - 170, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm has passed a law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 2944-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Energy and Treasury Commission considered the amendments tabled during the second reading of the draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. The Commission recommends the adoption of amendments 1 to 7, the rejection of amendment 8 and the adoption of amendments 9 to 12. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u169	There you go. Let me remind you, print number 2944. We will vote on the amendments first. Amendments 1 to 7 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Energy Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. 5 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 15. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Money Portal. en: GetBack paid over PLN 140 million to Pekao's state bank for the debt package, which was valued by the company at only 66 million. There's something to be afraid of, Mr. President Kaczyński. There's something to be afraid of. [[Turn it off.]] When did he pay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u171	Mr President, please refer to the first amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u172	When did he pay? He paid in December 2017, when Mateusz Morawiecki became Prime Minister. You're talking about banksters?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u173	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u174	You're talking about banksters? [[Game in the O.R.]] That's not gonna happen. [[No finger.]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u175	Mr President, you are not speaking on the subject, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u176	I will tell you briefly: you blame others, you do not know yours; you do not know what you have. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u177	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. And I would like to point out to Mr Urbaniak: you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, if you'd allow correction, we wouldn't have to break the rules. Minister Ardanowski! If you had pure intentions, you wouldn't be taking over from land farmers, you would just establish... [[But what's the correction?]] ...on this land, a mortgage or a mortgage. And you know very well... You said that farmers are no longer able to implement corrective programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u179	Member, we are at a different point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u180	But you, too, require such a repair program from them - to indicate... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u181	Member, we are at a different point. I would like to point out once again that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Going once! For the first time, not for the next time.]] High Seym! I would remind you that the correction may concern a misunderstood or inaccurate statement made by the speaker. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But that is exactly what happened, marshal, in my case. That's exactly what happened.]] [[We just heard.]] None of your fellow Members have been quoted by the ministers, so I would like to point out... [[Voice from the room: It doesn't have to be.]] I'm paying attention to that, because otherwise I'm gonna have to run the procedure. [[Same as always.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. The vote was 392, against - 1, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to paragraph 5aa. 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 400 voted in favour, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a in the following Article: 5ab. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 389 Members voted. The vote was 388, against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 9g applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 12. This amendment is linked to the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 4 and 7, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The vote was 403 against - one, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the article. 49a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u182	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to address the question to the Prime Minister because there are changes in the Energy Law that are crucial to the recipient who turn the final recipient into a poor relative trying to ask the great energy industry to change. Art. 49a is famous among specialists, experts. It was introduced with great difficulty to introduce a competitive energy market in our country. The minister who looked at these changes had tears in his eyes. He cried that the energy monopoly was changing to a competitive market. We're creating fiction now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Introducing a 100% obligation without amending Article. 8 gives nothing to the final recipient. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u183	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 253 against 152 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Paragraph 56 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 17a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 401, against - 2 and abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment has already been examined. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u184	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This amendment is proof of the direction in which the changes in the Energy Law are going. The Members will go to their districts. You'll go home to your families. What will you say to people close to you if this amendment is accepted? You're just going to say this: right now, we're changing the position of energy companies in such a way that our private property under the law will be entered by a civil servant, the operator will enter, because he has the will to see what's going on on on our land by our tree. Until now, he had to make arrangements with the owner. From now on, if we accept this amendment, each of you, each of your family, will go to the old man's office asking the old man to compensate for the damage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this the empowerment of the recipient on the market? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u185	Thank you. You have the floor of Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski, who will answer the Member's doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I can say this: Mr, Minister, this is not true as regards the proposed change, because so far the old man has been able to exercise his right, but has not used it very often. No one can get into someone's property without their permission. The situation is this: if a person agrees that a damaged energy network will be repaired on a given plot, all the related costs relating to the damage that would have occurred in connection with this repair shall be reimbursed by the energy company. On the other hand, if a person does not allow entry, then immediate feasibility is necessary. Only when there is a refusal of entry, the company asks the old man for immediate enforcement. This provision is linked to experiences that took place especially during hurricanes, repairing damage, etc. For a very long time, individuals and companies did not have the energy provided, because the procedure, before we could fix it, took a long time. Therefore, I can say that thanks to this regulation, after various types of accidents and damage, society and businesses will have their energy supply restored much faster. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u187	Thank you. As corrected by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u188	Thank you very much, Marshal. This is such an important discussion that I will exercise the right to rectify. The Minister has accused me of passing it on from this bleacher. But please note what this amendment, which we are proposing to reject, is why we will be proposing a vote in favour. It's a so-called introduction. special provisions, laws on special conditions which also prefer distribution companies. We once agreed that for the system, for the security of the state we need to introduce... e.g. power lines from power plants, and that has to be done whether or not someone is standing in the way. This amendment, which we are proposing, restores the system that has so far been in force in distribution. There was no preference for distribution companies. And this change the government introduces a preference for companies before [[♪ The bell ♪]] private property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u189	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 162 voted against - 247, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 7a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 407, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The question is directly about the procedure for adopting this draft law. In the project we had such an asterisk that it concerns the European Union's rules. Where is the implementation of European law here? After all, we know that this is merely a refinement of the rules that are already introduced in our Polish Code, and we use the opportunity to move away from the competitive energy market, strengthening the energy monopoly. The condition that was once, in the past, is restored. Energy costs were added up, and 20% of the profits were added and the energy customer paid for it. Unfortunately, the lack of state energy policy by 2030 results in [[♪ The bell ♪]] We move in the dark, and they pay for it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u191	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u192	...recipients of electricity and gas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u193	Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In general, the project is a pretty good solution, but on one issue - it is to the Minister - I would like to draw your attention. There is a possibility, there is a risk that large companies will be able to circumvent the provision on stock trading and trading obligations, on energy sales in relation to their own companies. Is the Ministry considering monitoring such a situation so that there is no further reduction of turnover of up to 40% on the commodity energy exchange general turnover, energy sales on the Polish market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u195	Thank you. The Minister of Energy, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law actually introduced European law, so we introduced the so-called Energy Law into the Act. network codes, i.e. Commission Regulation 2016/661, Regulation 2016/1388, Regulation 2016/1447. I would also like to confirm to Mr Sitarski that the introduction of the obligation will be monitored and this is set up in the solutions that will enable this. Second thing. As far as energy policy is concerned, it has actually taken a long time to deal with energy policy. That question goes beyond the scope of this bill, but I want to explain it. In view of the fact that taking responsibility for the energy sector after you, we have become very unknown - to what extent and until when we can use coal in energy, to what extent we will have to fight emissions, and, if I say so, almost full coal power in Poland, we are in a situation where we have to submit to the European Commission by the end of this year relevant documents on both energy and climate issues. As regards energy policy, in connection with the adoption of the Power Market Act and the notification of this law, notification by the European Commission of the restructuring of hard coal and in view of the fact that we have concluded negotiations with the European Commission on the whole package of cogeneration solutions, i.e. the introduction of a new common system, common production of heat and energy, so that we will go down with cogeneration to even localities, on the one hand it will be a package to combat emissions, but on the other hand there will be distributed energy. So, with the European Commission, there are home-made solutions that we can introduce in Poland, and now we can quietly present an energy policy that we will no longer have to fight and argue with anyone except our own discussion in Poland. We're just gonna put this into practice. Hence all must be well prepared and all matters are well prepared in the energy department. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u197	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 2944, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 265, against - 146, 5 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2943-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled in the second reading of the Act. The Commission recommends adopting Amendment 1 and rejecting Amendment 2. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and other laws. The basis of this amendment is that the provisions of the law on the operation of hard coal mining end at the end of this year. The amendment extends the functioning of these provisions until 2023. Poland received the consent of the European Commission on 8 February this year. On behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, I ask the High House to adopt this law with the first amendment and to reject the second amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u199	Thank you. First of all, we vote on the amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 11b of the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining, the applicant proposes to add a new wording to paragraph 1. 1 and add paragraph. 6a and 6b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. The vote was 380, against - 16, with 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 4a to the bill. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law shows the great chaos that accompanies the restructuring of hard coal mining, especially as regards the use of public funds. The government secures PLN 7 billion of public funds for this restructuring in 2016. It proposes to the European Union for notification of nearly PLN 8 billion. To this day it uses PLN 2 billion and this year also requested notification for another PLN 5 billion. This amendment aims to ensure that the Prime Minister comes to this stand every year and provides information from it to the government on the use of public funds for this restructuring and the process of running it. I propose that we vote in favour of this amendment. Mr President, for the sake of Poles public funds are being used. The Krupinski Mine has not yet been sold to limit this public aid. To this day the deposit stays, the concession - for 30 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u201	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 165 votes against, 243 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz club15, asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister about the current expenditure on legal public aid for coal mining. I have a question: How many billion zloty coal mines carry annually into the state budget, and what amounts have the State Treasury spent over the years? And is it true that uninformed Members do not follow the current expenditure they spend on restructuring? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u203	Thank you very much. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2943 as a whole, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. There were 406 votes in favour, no votes against, no four abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. We would like to return to the review of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the governmental bill amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2930. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2930 as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 389 against 21, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on the financial support for audiovisual production. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2947. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of this bill, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. He voted 395 against - 5, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on financial support for audiovisual production. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor. The additional committee report is in print No 2924-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Antoni Duda to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosorage presented in print No 2826. At the second reading of the draft law on 8 November this year. Two amendments were tabled. On the same day, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development discussed these amendments at its meeting. The committee's report is in print No 2924-A. The two amendments were adopted unanimously and recommended to the High Sejm that they be adopted and adopted by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u205	Thank you very much. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. The draft amending act proposes to introduce a new wording in the transitional provisions. As we've heard, the committee is requesting her admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The vote was 385 against - 1 with 20 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The draft amending act proposes that certain amendments should enter into force from 1 June 2019. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. The vote was 365, against - 5, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're going to vote on the whole thing. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, along with the amendments adopted, in print version 2924, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. There were 398 votes against, no one voted against, five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2983. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The physiotherapists have been waiting for this bill for 28 years. The bill has been passed, but we're not quite in the right shape, we're correcting it right now. And what does it turn out to be? Actually, I'd like to hear from the Minister how many physiotherapists we've pushed abroad for so many years, because according to the physiotherapists' estimates, 40% Polish physiotherapists work abroad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u207	Please. [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet. We can proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2983, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. The vote was 393 against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2968. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting this bill as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. The vote was 403, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Procedure in Administrative Courts. We are returning to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government bill amending the act on combating doping in sport. Third reading. It's a draft law from print no. 2976. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting this bill as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 400 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the act on combating doping in sport. We return to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. Third reading. It's a draft law from print No. 2962. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting this bill, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 405 voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one The Sejm passed a law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2894. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of this bill, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. The vote was 276 against - 2 with 129 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2879. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 1 and abstained 1. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. We refer to item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 2882. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting this bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. Four votes for, four votes against, two abstentions. The Sejm passed the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 2883. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 413 votes against, one abstention. The Sejm passed the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993. We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the National Debt Register. Third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft be adopted in print No 2991. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of this bill, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 390, against - 18, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the National Debt Register. We are returning to the examination of item 41 of the agenda: the report of the Health Committee and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the citizens' bill amending the law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. The Commission requests that the draft law contained in print no. 2796 be rejected. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the Health Committee and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for re-examination. Questions are asked by Members. Member Robert Winnicki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When this law went into session, I called for real attention to be paid to it, to take the time to explain that the committee's debates on this vaccine law would be really multi-hour debates of experts who would fully explain to the concerned citizens what the situation is. [[Experts.]] However, the committee chaired by the PO actually gagged this debate. And the effect is, ladies and gentlemen, by applying to the social movement [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] based on the new media principles of political struggle, you really are strengthening them at this point. You have not resolved any doubts, there has not been a fair debate on parliamentary grounds, but we are dealing with the throwaway of a civil project - right or wrong, but with [[♪ The bell ♪]] Throwing out... [[Very good.]] ...and with even greater development of this movement. And that's all you guys do right now. [[Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u209	Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u210	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I want to congratulate you on the effectiveness of the PO-PiS coalition. 'Cause last night, you guys were showing off the idea of parliament as a forum for discussion and exchange of views... [[Wisdom won.]] ... first by changing the date of the committee meeting several times and then by refusing to speak to people of different views than the only right one. Two questions for the Minister, because I see you're the Minister. Minister, you have convinced Poles that this project is anti-vaccine, although it contains a lot of non-controversial solutions to build confidence in the Polish vaccination system. Minister, which of these solutions will return to the Sejm as your own solutions? And second question. Minister, how much do you think the number of people refusing vaccination will increase as a result of this caricature of debate that we saw yesterday as a result of gagging their mouths to authorities outside the salons? [[You can't do that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u211	Thank you, sir. [[You just can't listen to it.]] Mr Chybick, the Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This disgraceful bill, I hope, is about to go to the trash. She shouldn't have been in Parliament at all. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill threatens the life and health of Poles and Poles, endangers the lives of children. I've often seen a child die. It's like the light on earth went out, like the world was over, like there was nothing left. And we already have the first examples of what anti-vaccine movements do. Kids who aren't vaccinated, they're leaving and they're not coming back here between us anymore. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, 100,000. children aged 6 to 14 months are vaccinated against measles. In the current situation, when we have measles in Poland, how does the Ministry of Health want to secure them? I think there's a time to urgently move the measles vaccination to the ninth month. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And let's reject...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u213	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u214	...and throw this bill in the trash. [[Applause]] [[The PiS members are leaving the room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u215	Mr Richard Petru, near the Liberal and Social Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is, why is this debate at all? Because 211 PIS and 19 Kukiz Members allowed this project to be considered today. Do you have any idea how much vaccine rejection is increasing? 13,000. - in 2014, 17 000. - in 2015, 23 000. - in 2016, 30,000. children were not vaccinated in 2017. Those who will vote for this bill to pass have children on their conscience who have not been vaccinated. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to raise one more point. I expect an apology for the words: shut your mouth, Mr Kaczyński. You said that to me today... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Get out of the podium.]] That's what happened. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u217	Mr President, you have not said anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a draft law and please do not refer this to the current time, because the current rules are in force. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u218	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I express my deep faith that, as a result of this irresponsible public health introduction to the Parliament's deliberations of this drasticly harmful public health project, the Seym arm of the PiS will feel a clear sting and this decisive act of voting against this law will inoculate itself for many years against extreme foolishness. [[Applause]] This injection against the extreme stupidity of the political class of PiS and the Kukiz Club15 is really needed for life. You need to realize additionally how much fermentation you have introduced, supporting anti-vaccine movements, in the heads of Poles. Every person, every Pole who gets hurt as a result of this event will be burdened with your conscience. And the question to the Minister is: How are you going to react to this map of vaccination refusals, which in 2017 caused, for example. In the Opole Voivodeship it was up to 4.5 thousand. Coincidences? This one needs to be counteracted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] not to support anti-vaccine movements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u219	Member Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you can see, some have not noticed that the election campaign is already over and you need to work substantively. We as Law and Justice have declared from the beginning... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We've been declaring from the beginning, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of rejecting this project, but we respect citizens' initiatives as opposed to you. [[Voice from the room: Since when?]] Hence the referral to the committee. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to educate society in this matter. You don't act like citizens' representatives. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You do not want to explain to citizens how to proceed in this matter. I thank the Minister, thank the representatives of the government and thank many others who have explained why in Poland these last days... [[Voice from the hall: Thank yourself.]] ...should be vaccinated. We're already seeing a reverse trend. And it was very important that citizens get this information. That's what we asked for yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the committee meeting, so that such a debate on the committee will be held. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u221	Thank you, sir. Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will vote on this bill on the eve of the National Independence Day. Before I vote on this bill, I would like to say to the whole House: I am a patriot, I am fighting the darkness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u223	That was about it? It wasn't about. Ladies and gentlemen, the main... No, because it's obvious. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the committee's motion to reject the draft law in print 2796, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Representative of the Justyna Socha Legislative Initiative Committee: Mr. Marshal, I wanted to express myself. On behalf of 120,000. I want to speak and I have the right to speak.]] Please don't disturb me. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 380 Members voted. The vote was 354 against, there were 10 against, there were 16 abstentions. The Sejm's motion for rejection has been accepted. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Public Documents (Prints No. 2953 and 2961). [[Representative of the Justyna Socha Legislative Initiative Committee: Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal!]] I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee. And I'm asking you to leave the podium. [[Representative of the Justyna Socha Legislative Initiative Committee: This is the promised dialogue?]] Well, then we're gonna have to... Please leave the room, ma'am. [[Representative of the Justyna Socha Legislative Initiative Committee: There is no dialogue. We feel deceived, ladies and gentlemen.]] The Member is... [[Voice from the hall: Thank you, ma'am.]] [[Voice from the room: Please leave the room.]] Thank you very much, ma'am, but I'm asking you to leave the room. Ladies and gentlemen, if there was a question addressed to the representative of the applicants, I would have given him the floor. There was no question, no possibility. [[Representative of the Justyna Socha Legislative Initiative Committee: A real debate will be held on 20 November in the preventive vaccination safety team. You're welcome, there will be experts. Now we're gonna...]] Ma'am, please leave the room. [[Representative of the Justyna Socha Legislative Initiative Committee: This is a caricature of democracy, ladies and gentlemen.]] Politely leave the room. You're... I call again Mr Jerzy Polak. Something's happened. This vote will be moved to the next... We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and of the Committee on Culture and Media on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Polish Press Agency (prints No. 2955 and 2964). I ask Mrs Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting of 26 October this year. The Senate of the Republic of Poland considered the Act on amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency adopted by the Sejm, print No. 2955. The Senate introduced one amendment to its content specifying who is entitled to acquire shares free of charge. Joint Committees for Energy and Treasury Affairs and Culture and Communications at its meeting of 7 November this year. they accepted the Senate's position by adopting the amendment. They also recommend its adoption by the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u225	Thank you. We shall vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous point of order. I'm going to read these rules, ladies and gentlemen, because we didn't vote in the previous paragraph. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the only amendment to the article. 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes the words "ust" in the amendment order. 7 and 8 and replace by the words "Article 7'. A new wording of paragraphs 7 to 9. 8 and add paragraph. 9. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you is against the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 27 voted against - 353, 20 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on State Labour Inspection (Prints No. 2952 and 2980). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u226	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The Commissions for State Control and Social Policy and Family Affairs, after considering this resolution of the Senate at its meeting on 7 November, ask the High Sejm to accept both amendments in accordance with the report in print No 2980. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u227	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 44a Act on State Labour Inspection. It's connected to the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1 and 2, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 118 voted against - 287, with one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives (Prints No. 2954 and 2979). I ask Mrs Teresa Nolas to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u228	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, print No. 2954. High Seym! The Committee on Agriculture, after considering the Senate's resolution, accepted 36 amendments, while one amendment, Amendment 8, rejected, and we would like to recommend this vote to the High Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u229	Thank you. We vote as before. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) The 5th Senate Law proposes to amend the reference. Amendments 14, 23 and 33. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also recommend that Kukiz15 vote against the rejection of these amendments at this point. However, one more thing is worth mentioning here, namely that this law on the circles of rural hostesses a year ago was tabled by Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska. I ask what was wrong with this bill then, and what is better with this bill today. Why is there such a strange way to treat Members who make substantive laws? Why don't you discuss this bill in the committees if it was the same bill? You copy it and then you take it as your own. And let me add one more thing: women organized themselves and without this law, because in Bobin the Association of Women Villages was established in this village. Women organized themselves and led to the fact that they were able to obtain subsidies. Life hates vacuum. That is why I ask for such legislation so that we respect the laws, including those of the opposition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u231	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are speaking out of the question. [[Very good. Very much so.]] Change of reference is a legislative amendment, not the essence of things. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1, 14, 23 and 33, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. It was two against 405, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 3 against - 400, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. Amendment 9 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15. I ask that this be a question of amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u232	Of course, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very good amendment and I recommend that we support it and vote against it. However, it is worth mentioning at this point, ladies and gentlemen, that the leaders of the village hostels from Łosiów are calling on Minister Romanowski to resolve the situation regarding drought at that place, because you did not estimate according to the guidelines... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's not about that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u233	Mr... [[We're talking about housewives' wheels.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u234	How did you not talk about it? About. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u235	I am very sorry, sir, but this amendment does not concern drought. Let's be serious. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Oh, Norbert, Norbert.]] We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. It was seven against 389, two stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. Amendments 7, 13 and 29 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 4, 7, 13 and 29, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. The vote was 3 against - 398, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete point 12 of Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15. I ask that the question be addressed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very good amendment. And at this point I would like to thank Minister Ardanowski for the circles of rural hostels from the district of Tarnowski, in terms of the amount of PLN 15 million for farmers affected by... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u237	Mr President, you have said no again. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm drawing your attention under the Art Act. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3. I'm calling you into order. You can't deliberately use questions to talk, I don't know, about the wide-ranging issues of the rural hostels' circles. We're voting. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Everything's important, but let's be serious. 409 Members voted. The vote was 2 against - 405, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes to delete point 13 of Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Amendments 18, 31 and 37 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 6, 18, 31 and 37 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. One Member voted against - 412, with one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among your Members is against Amendment 8 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The vote was 353, against - 57, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9. Amendments 12, 21, 32, 34 and 35 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against these amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. One Member voted against - 408, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. Article 4 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. For - no one, against - 400, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 14 The Senate proposes a new wording of point 2. Amendment 16 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 15 and 16, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. He voted 1, against - 406, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 17th amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Senate law proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. Amendment 30 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 17 and 30, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - no one, against - 416, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 19th Amendment, the Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. Article 2 16. Amendments 20 and 36. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 19, 20 and 36, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. It was five, against 410, one holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 22nd Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 22nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - no one, against - 415, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 32 points 3 and 4a of the Senate propose changes of an editorial and legislative nature. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 24th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - no one, against - 414, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 2a 34. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 25th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - no one, against - 414, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. 2b in Article 34. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very good amendment, most of which we support. Just a simple question: Why didn't we accept this together with the package of amendments in the Kukiz Act15 last year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[There was a question.]] [[Voice from the room: Excellent question.]] [[What's the Kukiz Act 15?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u239	Well, that was the question, of course. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] Who among you is against the 26th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. There was one Member against - 412, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 27th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 35. Amendment 28 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15. Sir, I'm not laughing. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important bill and these are very important amendments... [[That's not true, that's not true.]] ...that's why you should remind your colleagues who challenge me here from clowns. After all, we are working on a very important bill. [[Says who?]] Don't say that. I'm sure that's where they put it in the transcript, so check it out. [[Game in the O.R.]] I have one question, though. It's a very good bill. Please don't be arrogant right now. Why did the bill appear at the time of the election campaign of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki? A year ago, it was acceptable. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska has prepared very well...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u241	Sir, but this is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u242	... You could have accepted it, not campaigned for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u243	...this question does not concern the two amendments that we will now vote on. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against Amendments 27 and 28, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. It was 1, against 412. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Electronic Invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships (prints No. 2956 and 2965). I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 6 November, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development unanimously approved all four amendments of the Senate concerning the Procededed Print Act No 2956. These amendments were of a technical and editorial nature. The committee therefore recommends that the High House vote against the rejection of the Senate amendments. We also recommend that amendments 1 and 2 be voted together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u245	Thank you very much. An announcement to the High House. How many more votes do we have? [[Voice from the O.R.: Five.]] Five votes. Ladies and gentlemen, after the last vote, I will announce a recess and call the Senior Convention to the dark living room. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the Senate law proposes to delete paragraph 1. 2. In the second amendment to the article. The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 5. 3. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1 and 2, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - no one, against - 404, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 8 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. The absolute majority is 201. In - 1, against - 398, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Senate Law proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The absolute majority is 205. In - 1, against - 406, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. I'm calling a three-minute break and calling the Senior Convention to the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 03 hours 13 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that the Convention has come together to give an opinion on the proposal to remove from the agenda the present item 31. It is a vote on the committee's report on the Senate's resolution on the Public Documents Act 2553 and 2961. The Senate has tabled three amendments, but we will discuss them and vote on them at the next session of the Sejm. [[What's that? We're not voting?]] We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Additional election of the Secretary of the Sejm (print No 2982). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for the election of the supplementary Secretary of the Sejm. May I have your attention, please? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Who among your fellow Members would like to speak on this issue? I can't see, I can't hear. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 2982, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 359 Members voted. The vote was 351, against - 4, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the election of the supplementary secretary of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 2999). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to speak? President Richard Terlecki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland I submit a formal request for a change in the way in which the vote is conducted consisting of a separate vote on the change of personal composition of the Committee on National Defence and a separate vote on the change of personal compositions in the other committees. [[Objection.]] It's a 2999 seym print. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u247	Mr Zbigniew Konwiński objects. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u248	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a permanent theater. [[This is theater.]] You cannot keep the Gentleman's arrangements at the beginning of your term on such a simple matter as the number of committee members resulting from the size of individual parliamentary clubs. The Civic Platform has an unused basic parity as regards the National Defence Commission. With this resolution, we want to use this parity. We're reporting two MPs. You also have untapped additional parity, you could complement the National Defence Committee to keep the majority, but you just don't want to work, you don't have any Members to work with. In fact, next year you're gonna put away the Sejm's activities. The Seym will gather once a month. Now you don't even want to work on the committee. It's just a shame. That's why I object. We want to work in Parliament, we want to work in committee, so respect the fundamental right of opposition arising from the size of individual parliamentary clubs. It's about basic parity. [[Our law.]] You don't even want to respect that. We report two members of the Platform, report two of your own, and the majority will still be PiS-owska. [[Applause]] [[It's a centuries-old tradition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u249	Thank you. The request was made - we have heard opposition - on a separate vote on the proposal to change the personal composition of the National Defence Committee. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. 223 voted against - 170, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on changes in the composition of the National Defence Committee. Who among you is in favour of choosing this committee by Zdzisław Gawlik and Krystyna Skowronska, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 174 voted against - 219, with 6 abstentions. I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. We proceed with the vote on the full proposal of the Sejm Bureau on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Who among you is in favour of the request from print No 2999, excluding changes in the composition of the National Defence Committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. The vote was 366 against - 22, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 11 hours 13 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question raised by Mrs Anna Czech, Ms Ewa Filipiak and Ms Józef Hrynkiewicz from Law and Justice on the draft regulation on the pilot care programme for the recipient in the oncology network - to the Minister for Health. I'd like to ask Mrs. Anna Bohemia's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In relation to the discussions with the Ministry of Health, the NFZ, the medical community and patient organisations on the draft regulation on the pilotage of the National Oncology Network, I ask the Minister: Will the Minister consider proposals to take into account, in particular, the quality of the services provided and the available human resources when building the oncological network structure in the field of oncological surgery? Will you continue to monitor the results on the quality and effectiveness of the solutions used? Second question: Does the project improve early oncological diagnosis by effectively implementing the universal screening programme in order to significantly, or actually radically, increase the percentage of applicants? Please also provide information on the state of work and the date of implementation of comprehensive diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation in breast cancer. This concerns actions throughout the country. Please specify a deadline for implementing a comprehensive solution in this area, including for other oncology diseases, those who need comprehensive care. Will this help to improve patients' situation? It is about comprehensiveness of benefits, effectiveness and location of the place of benefit in relation to the place of residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u251	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to start by systematising a little bit of the work on comprehensive reform of oncology care, changing this system, dividing it into two parts. The first is piloting, which can be said to have seen the light of day, because the draft regulation of the Minister of Health was addressed to external consultations, and on 2 November the consultation deadline expired. We are in the process of analyzing the comments made, we are preparing for an agreement conference in this area. And this is piloting, piloting, whose range is obviously narrowed. As far as the work on quality meters is concerned - because this was also the first question, quality meters, especially in oncological surgery - these meters are now only partially included in the pilotage. Why part of it? Because unfortunately, today we do not have data, especially data resulting from oncology registers, data on the quality of the provision of these services in establishments. This is what piloting is for, so that we can collect these data in those voivodships that will be covered, and on this basis actually develop the target solutions, which will only be laid down in the law, on which work will probably start in I, at the latest in the second quarter of the following year. These targeted solutions, absolutely sanctioning a certain quality and as if determining the entry into the network in relation to the quality of the services provided, we very much want to implement. With regard to prevention and oncology prevention - I would also like to break it down into two areas of action. One range of activities is mainly related to what we do on an ongoing basis, regardless of the change of the system. Well, today the biggest task that is being carried out in the Ministry of Health, different from a number of previously undertaken ones, is to significantly increase the expenditure and to significantly intensify the activities related to the broad understanding of primary prevention, above all, by stimulating awareness - or developing certain patterns in relation to the awareness of the widely understood citizens - that this prevention is important. This year we will allocate over PLN 20 million. This is a wide campaign called: I plan a long life, a campaign that is present in the media, on television, mostly national television, in most radio stations. It is also an industry-oriented and expert campaign, and a general campaign that reaches citizens. These are also tasks related to certain actions, events. And that is what is primarily aimed at raising the public's awareness of how important this prevention is. Of course, the second step is primary prevention, improved reporting and research alone. We are also at the stage of discussions at the National Council for Oncology. I asked experts from the national council at the last meeting to help develop certain patterns. We meet next week, this discussion will continue. New ideas have emerged, such as mammography prevention. We're thinking about a pilot system, a incentive system, and we're thinking about directing it to the healthcare providers, giving them, like, an opportunity to show up in a given area, let's say, a result that's going to be beyond today's levels. We want to encourage them with a certain incentive system. The more you cover in a given area of the population, the more pay you will receive for those researches that are funded today. Then we'll probably want to run in the first or second quarter of next year. The second question concerned a comprehensive diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer. The Minister of Health has commissioned the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification to prepare comprehensive solutions in various cancer groups. As of today, the Agency has developed such solutions in terms of providing comprehensive breast cancer care. These solutions today consist, this model of care provision consists of 9 basic modules. I will not discuss them in detail, but this is from prevention and education, through diagnostics, surgical treatment, radiation therapy, etc. This model was initially adopted by the Minister of Health and work is currently underway at the Ministry of Health on the final draft regulation which will implement this provision in the list of guaranteed benefits. We hope to present this document for consultation as early as November. In the first quarter of 2019 we would like this benefit to enter into the basket of guaranteed benefits. Regarding other cancer groups, because the agency has been working on other cancers in parallel, a meeting of the Transparency Board of the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification is scheduled on 10 December, where reports on other benefits will be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u253	Thank you, Minister. I ask you to ask an additional question by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Well, any diagnosis or suspicion of cancer causes a dramatic situation of the patient. Therefore, my additional question is the following. What benefits will patients benefit from post-networking? When will that be? Where are these centers gonna be? I'm asking a question on behalf of the amazons that ask if the so-called network will be run quickly. breast unit, primarily devoted to the treatment of a very difficult disease for women, which is breast cancer. The Minister is talking about piloting. The pilot's gonna be here someday. We want to know what the answer is to patients who ask us when it's gonna be, and where it's gonna be. How will this affect the place where sick people live?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u255	Thank you. Please, Minister Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u256	I'll try to answer that question synthetically. What benefits for patients above all? These benefits, it seems, have been very strongly, or even unambiguously, emphasized in a document which has been developed by a team of experts appointed by the Minister of Health. Let me quote briefly what was in this material. The team already spoke quite strongly on the front pages of the introduction, first of all, about stopping further degradation of Polish oncology, which is a very strong statement. I don't know if it's too strong even in relation to where we are when it comes to Polish oncology, but the team talked about fragmentation of care, huge loss of the patient in the system, lack of supervision of measuring the effects in general and the quality of treatment, errors in qualification for treatment, incorrect sequence of combined treatment, delays in diagnostic processes. I hope that this is the result of the overall work on changing the oncology system, on filling this hole, that is the reference to these statements of the team, to statements concerning fragmentation, to statements about the fact that today there are more than 2,600 units that are trying to carry out oncology benefits in some part. They're trying because they're doing 5, 10 a year, so it's hard to say they have staff, infrastructure, and preparation. These are, in my opinion, the benefits that patients will have mainly after the bill and after this major change, i.e. above all a comprehensive approach, full supervision of their treatment process by the reference units and, finally, lack of this confusion in the system, because unfortunately today we get signals that often patients after one stage of treatment de facto do not have planned further stages and do not know what to do. On the other hand, in detail, because these are the generals for the bill that we will be working on in the field of piloting breast cancer is one of the five types of cancers to be treated comprehensively. Maybe it's not a breast cancel unit one to one, because you can't identify it. The breast cancel unit are, however, some additional requirements, although you also need to look at what I mentioned earlier, i.e. the introduction of the product: comprehensive care of the patient, a product which, in the first quarter of 2019, I hope, will enter the basket and which corresponds in some sense to what the breast cancel unit is. [[Where?]] Where? The pilotage is planned in Dolnośląskie voivodship and Świętokrzyskie voivodship. In the second stage, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the first half of next year, we would like it to be another two voivodships. [[Which one?]] Probably or perhaps Mazowieckie and Podlaskie voivodships. Not many voivodships? [[Not much, not much.]] I hope we can expand this gradually.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u257	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. This is the question raised by Arkadiusz Marchewka and Norbert Obrycki from the Civic Platform on the merger of the Shiprepair Yard Gryfia SA with Szczecinska Shipyard. z o.o. The question was addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u258	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In June this year a letter of intent was signed concerning the acquisition of supervision of companies, state-owned companies that deal with the shipbuilding industry. This supervision was to be taken over by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. A few days ago, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs informed about the next step and plan, not only consolidating supervision of companies engaged in shipbuilding activities, but also the merger of certain companies, including the Maritime Shiprepair Shipyard Gryfia SA and SSN sp. Z o.o., which until recently was called the Szczecin Industrial Park. When talking about these matters, it is important to draw attention to some important details. Currently, there are more than 50 private entities operating in Szczecin Shipyard, a former industrial park, which leases the area for their own business. The second important issue concerns the Gryfia repair yard. It is pointed out that both in 2016 and 2017 the yard suffered a net loss. In 2016, it was about PLN 18 million, in 2017. - over PLN 7 million. As the merger or merger of these two companies is planned, I am addressing the Minister and the representatives of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping with three questions. First: How will the merger take place? Will it be a merger in which a new company will be created, or will it be a takeover of one undertaking by another? If so, which company will cease to exist? Secondly, is it true that the losses recorded by the Gryfia repair yard [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be covered by measures held by Szczecin Industrial Park, now by Szczecin Shipyard sp. z o.o.? And these are the questions I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry to answer. And the others...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u259	Thank you very much. I ask for your reply under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! By answering the questions of Mr Marchewka and Mr Obrycki, I would like to make it clear on the merger of the Shiprepair Yard Gryfia SA with Szczecinska Shipyard sp. at this stage it is not planned to merge both companies. I would like to stress this once again: at this stage, it is not planned to merge both companies. Any restructuring needs will only be verified after the current allocation of shipbuilding assets has been completed. I remind you that today the assets of both companies are transferred from the Ministry of National Defence to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Only at this point, after the allocation of these assets, the owner, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, will be entitled to take decisions on this matter. For the moment, once again, I would like to stress, there is no planned merger of both companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u261	Thank you very much. And, please, Mr Norbert Obricki has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna ask you a follow-up question after all. The letter of intent was signed. Of course, intentions can be changed, and in this case I think that's a good thing, and I am pleased with this declaration that such a merger is not foreseen. But I have a question: Does the government have any economic expertise about whether any combination of a debt-bearing and inefficient company, with a surplus of administration in relation to the number of employees, could bring a rescue to this company? How would the government, when saving the Gryfia repair yard, want to help her get out of the debt circle? If you could still refer to the Minister, because when we asked that question, we were hoping for an answer to the plans that were made public. However, I would like to stress that we are pleased that the government is withdrawing from the merger plans, because it would be a loss to the former industrial park, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Currently Szczecin Shipyard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u263	Thank you. Please, Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u264	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Any decisions by the owner, future owner, and the Maritime Shiprepair Yard of Gryfia, and Szczecin Shipyard can be taken only after thorough audits have been carried out. And today I absolutely don't make any second thoughts about whether it's going to happen one way or another. Once again, I would like to point out with full determination that it is too early to talk about the very future of both actors, the more that this allocation is still ongoing, today work is being done to pass this on from one ministry to the other ministry. [[How long is this gonna take?]] Mr President, I am sure that this will be done without undue delay. We want the shipbuilding industry, the domestic shipbuilding industry, to undergo ground-based change and reconstruction as soon as possible. And the Ministry of Maritime Affairs will be the one that will determine the future of the shipbuilding industry in our country. We should be pleased to see that today the shipbuilding business will be focused, subject to a single minister, in one hand. And it will be the Minister who will decide on the future, on consolidation, on the development of companies within the shipbuilding group. I am convinced that the coming months will show, give the whole picture of the situation of the shipbuilding industry and the future of the shipbuilding industry. We also ask for a little patience. Please understand that these actions that are taking place today, and this future audit, which is being announced, will show us where we are and what the future awaits us when it comes to the shipbuilding industry. Thank you very much. [[So it's a matter of months, not weeks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u265	Thank you, Minister. Another question raised by Barbara Chrobak and Paweł Szramka of Kukiz15 is on improving working conditions and wages in the police. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The Minister was supposed to answer the question, but I don't see him, so let's hold off for a moment. Welcome, Minister. I would ask you to ask Barbara Chrobak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The dialogue between the Minister and the chairman of the trade union, Mr Rafał Jankowski, is welcome. The media reports show that several requests are to be met. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the situation in the police is worrying. There are still a shortage of police officers in the investigative departments, and those who are are conducting several dozen cases simultaneously, which causes the length of proceedings. This situation has a tangible impact on the whole justice system and affects the security of citizens. Minister! The conditions in which cops work serve, because cops say they serve, taunt their dignity. According to the press, police officers, and here from Łódź, to make a call, stand in line, the evidence is played on private carriers, office supplies buy with their own money. That's what the Łódź police say. They say they're missing everything. It turns out that the Łódź garrison is still struggling with the lack of basic tools. Such a situation as in Łódź takes place in many police stations in Poland. Basic office supplies are missing: pens, paper, ink for printers. The protocols are made on outdated computers. How does the Ministry plan to solve this problem? I was also very concerned about the record from the letter of police officers from Łódź, in which they write about the Blue Card: We successfully carry out the activities related to the Blue Card procedure? Of course, from behind the desk. How does it actually look, Minister? Is statistics more important than helping people who experience domestic violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u267	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Joachim Brudziński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam, I would like to confirm the two threads that have emerged in your question. The first point is that actually yesterday's next one, because it wasn't the first one, some extraordinary one, maybe extraordinary in the sense that it ended with an agreement, for which I would like to thank both the representatives of the social side and my colleagues very warmly... In a special way, I would like to thank my social contact agent, Edward Zarriba, because he made the hundreds of calls, took the call, led to this agreement being signed not only with Mr Jankowski, but also with representatives of all trade unions operating in the services of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. President Jankowski, of course, represents the largest union, the largest formation, which is the Polish Police, but there were also representatives of the Border Guard, the fire department, the Solidarity Service. This agreement is a broader agreement. Thank you to the officers who supported the social side, they kept their fingers crossed for this agreement to be signed. It's been signed. I have been asked what this dialogue looks like. I can say that the dialogue looks much better than the situation in the police. And that's the second thread I'd like to highlight. Indeed, I am aware of this as Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of the Government of Law and Justice. The situation may not generally be as dramatic as the examples you have given, but I confirm that this is indeed the situation that affects the officers who serve on a daily basis. It's a statistical question. I'm absolutely in favour of them. As a result, I have been tasked with the chief of police, the chiefs of the other services. This is obvious because each service must also be based on specific indicators. It was not a dominant element. Officers are to serve citizens, not to fill in further tables. On the other hand, we were aware of the state of service of the Law and Justice government. I would not like to answer this question in this way: and our predecessors. That is why I will tell you what we have done as a government of law and justice. They are the fruit of decades of concrete omissions. The fact that we negotiated funds under the agreement to increase the wages of the police is the result of the fact that, for years of the governments of our predecessors, no one has given any increases to the police, little of it, taken away, frozen valorisation, taken away pension rights, etc. You could multiply. Of course, the question arises as to why this level of frustration between the police and the social side that appeared at the time did not have the dramatic dimension that it has today. But the fact is obvious - years of omission result in this, not another state of the police. Therefore, by including governments, the Government of Law and Justice immediately began to implement concrete measures. In order to repair these long-term omissions of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, and to reduce the consequences of the destruction of uniform formations under the MSWiA, we have prepared a programme of modernization of uniformed services. In order not to tolerate this situation, which indeed was polite to say here, we have taken steps to reach almost PLN 9200 million in 2016-2020. This money is intended for the activities that you mentioned, namely equipment, construction and development of infrastructure and increased salaries, which are all that Polish officers deserve and I want to say this very clearly. We systematically raised the salaries of the officers. I'd like to remind you of these numbers here. In January 2016, all officers of the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including civil servants, received increases. Officers - 202 PLN, civilians - 154 PLN. In January 2017, the salary of officers increased on average by PLN 253 and the salaries of civil servants - on average by PLN 250. In May 2018, the least earning officers received a raise. A sum of 150 million has been earmarked for this purpose. In total, in all four services, the increase in salaries was essentially over 110 thousand. officers, including almost 75,000. Police officers, over 23,000. Firefighters. The police received over 98 million for these increases, the State Fire Department - over 36 million, the Border Guard - over 13 million and the State Protection Service - almost 2.5 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll be off now, Marshal. In May 2018 for officers working in the largest garrison, i.e. in the capital city of Warsaw, the capital supplement was raised from PLN 304 to PLN 470. Of course, I'm talking about gross amounts here. More money was given to police officers who serve in the capital garrison structures, or more than 9,000. Officers. The amount of this allowance has not been changed since 2009, we have raised that amount. In January 2019 - this is the fruit of yesterday's negotiations - it will be the amount of PLN 655 for officers. Since the time has run out, I will give detailed information in writing, which amounts and where they have been directed to correct these often dramatic conditions under which Polish police officers come to work today. I'm aware of that. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would like to thank you very warmly, actually bow down in the belt to these police officers, who subjected to various kinds of pressures and called ugly terms, also by some politicians, but in recent days they have performed this service for the safety of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u269	Minister, you need to leave now. Minister for the Interior and Administration of Joachim Brudziński: I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen Officers! As Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I am grateful for your responsible attitude. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] Good. I would ask you to ask an additional question by Mr Paul Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u270	Thank you very much. Minister! You were talking mainly about money, which is of course extremely important, and it is good that more money will be spent on our services. System changes are also needed. Therefore, now let me quote the questions of our leader, Paweł Kukiz, addressed to you. We're guessing it would take some time to reply in writing, and because it's an urgent matter, I'm gonna let you ask me now. Does MSWiA conduct or plan to carry out legislative work in order to allocate 1% GDP per year on duty? Does the Ministry plan to carry out a thorough reform of the Police Headquarters, its slimming and deofficialisation and decentralisation of the Police? Is the Ministry planning to introduce a division of the corps into police officers, police officers and civil servants? How many vacancies are currently in police and other uniformed services? Does the Minister intend to draw consequences for Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński as responsible [[♪ The bell ♪]] For aggravating the chaos in the police and the other uniformed services? It's not just our opinion, it's a really big group of officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u271	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Joachim Brudziński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u272	Mr. Marshal, I promise it will be shorter now, so that we can even up the time. I will begin by answering the last question of the Member. Well, I kindly inform the Member and, through you, President Paul Kukiz, that as far as political responsibility is concerned, I have never hid and will not hide behind the back of my deputies. As Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I am responsible for what is happening in the Police and I am not going to put my breasts to the awards only if the Polish Police are successful and so are they. The Polish police are performing spectacularly internationally, whether in the case of the arrest of drug dealers or in the fight against crime, the most dangerous, organized one. That's when I'm supposed to put my chest up for awards, and in crisis situations, and that's certainly what's been going on for a dozen days... I mean, the situation in uniform was dramatic when we took over. I talked about it in the first part of my speech. On the other hand, if, in recent days, there is indeed an unprecedented situation in the history of uniform services after 1989, honourable Member, and through you, Mr Pawle Kukiza, this is my responsibility as Minister of Home Affairs. Like I said, I'm not gonna hide behind my coworkers' back. And if that's what it's gonna be, it's always... I am aware of this as a politician, as a minister, that the fate of ministers is different, but I come from such an assumption - I always say this - that the monastery is longer than the Prior. All these officers, who have a dozen years of experience, have survived many ministers and will survive others. That's why the most important thing is that the services are stable so that the police have and that police officers, officers have a sense of stability and a sense of security, also in financial terms. As for the specific questions concerning the various legislative solutions, it is easy for me to answer this: when Kukiz15 takes over the state's power and when President Paweł Kukiz as Prime Minister delegates someone to the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, then, of course, Mr Paweł Kukiz's programme and the Kukiz's environment15 will be implemented, also in uniform services, while today we are implementing the Law and Justice programme, but obviously during the committee's substantive work I am always open to discussion. I met with President Paweł Kukiz personally. I am very interested in his various kinds of proposals. What my political community thinks is right, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will implement, but for the time being, the Minister of Law and Justice is responsible for the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u273	Thank you, Minister. Another question was raised by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. The question about the drastic rise in electricity prices to the Minister of Energy. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent times, we have seen a significant increase in electricity prices. It's been going on for months. For starters, we were able to approach this as news, but this condition is increasing, and to the extent that in November Poland was the most expensive electricity from all European countries. There are certainly many factors to this, and today we do not have enough time to analyse and say what is the main reason for all this, but the price of electricity is also rising in European countries. But what does this cause today in Poland? Our economy is becoming uncompetitive, especially the energy-intensive industry will not be competitive. It also hits other sectors of our economy. Today local governments are already beginning to get in trouble because many investors, many contractors are withdrawing from the investment, because the presented cost estimates are already unrealistic due to the rise in energy prices. They cut agricultural products, they cost food and other products. Local governments are also having problems today because they are unable to cover all energy-related expenditures, i.e. street lighting, maintenance of public buildings. At the moment these problems are increasing from month to month, week to week. Because of the election campaign [[♪ The bell ♪]] You may not be able to see it, but this problem is going to grow up soon. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: How does the government intend to solve these problems, which will undoubtedly concern most Poles and our entire economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u275	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the analysis and consideration of electricity prices, it is essential to distinguish between electricity prices in wholesale and energy charges to be borne by consumers in the context of the accounts received. The lack of distinction between these two different sizes often leads to erroneous conclusions in public space. The percentage change in wholesale prices does not translate in a 1:1 ratio into a change in the electricity bill paid by demand. This is due, among other things. the fact that the bill is still different from the energy price: distribution costs, excise duties, VAT, etc. In the household accounts, these other elements represent around 50% all costs. I refer to wholesale prices: actually in the second and third quarters of this year. Europe as a whole has seen an increase in electricity prices on stock exchanges. Among the price-setting factors which have a key impact on electricity prices in the wholesale market in 2018, particular the cost of CO2 allowances and fuel costs should be indicated. The obligation to purchase CO2 allowances is a key element of the European Union's climate policy. In 2017, the average price of CO2 allowances was EUR 5 per tonne. At the beginning of 2018, the prices of CO2 allowances showed a strong upward trend. September 10th this year This price reached the value of $25 and 79 cents for 1 t, which is an increase of about 500%. Well, I would like to stress that this has been caused, among other things. the fact that from 3 January 2018 CO2 emission allowances have been classified as a specific financial instrument. The transformation of CO2 allowances into a financial instrument has led to significant changes in the market structure of increasing the number of new entrants which are not technically related to the ETS, which is the distribution system for these allowances. The main focus should be on large international financial institutions aimed primarily at making profits from speculative activities, which were supported by high price volatility. This is also what I would like to stress at this point that there has been a decrease and a slowdown in the rise in prices that currently vary at around EUR 16 per tonne. I will stress here the role played by my speeches to the European Commission on 18 September and 15 October in which I asked for intervention on the basis of the relevant provisions of the Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. Since my first speech to the European Commission, the prices of CO2 allowances have fallen by around 40%. It is worth saying here that all of this has caused considerable instability in emissions trading. The second price factor is fuel costs. Natural gas prices and coal prices have shown a recent upward trend, but not as strong as those of CO2 emission allowances. It is important for our country that coal extracted in Poland is delivered to power plants and power plants and that we managed to restructure the organizational and financial restructuring and mining of hard coal mining. Coal is currently mined in Poland from dozens to even dozens of percent cheaper than imported coal. It is thanks to this restructuring that Polish power plants can count on lower prices of this raw material compared to imported coal prices. And the second very important thing is that very often prices are used, fixed even for a few years and several years contracts, which results in predictability of coal prices for energy. It should also be stressed that Polish energy is not based on natural gas, so that the impact of gas price increases is not so important. However, there are a number of European Union countries where gas is a fundamental or significant contribution to the electricity generation structure, which also translates into an increase in wholesale prices in these countries. However, such a direct relationship between CO2 emission allowance prices and gas prices and consumption volumes is already being observed. And this dynamic increase in allowance prices has often resulted in increased consumption of natural gas in the European Union and thus increased gas prices as a result of increased demand. Who has benefited most from this? Of course, the most benefited not from RES sources, but exporters [[♪ The bell ♪]] natural gas to the European Union. I would like to say that the important point in all this is that we have prepared a compensation scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises which currently pay the most in the country for electricity and for households. I would like to stress that this programme will be covered by households regardless of the type of contract with the trading company, so that the electricity costs borne by the customers remain unchanged next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u277	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u278	Thank you very much. Minister, it's all right, and it's a good thing it doesn't translate, the 70%. , to increase retail energy prices, because we would already have a drama, a superdramat at the moment in the country. However, this growth for end-users is apparent. Existing agreements with local authorities for the supply of energy are being resolved, and this will continue. Maybe it's not that public right now, but it's happening. Thus, final consumers already pay individually higher electricity bills. There is an increase in water and waste water prices, as the energy price will have a significant impact on these prices. My question: How - because we still hear that these shields will - the government intends to help local governments, because it will also affect the use of resources [[♪ The bell ♪]] EU. Self-governments won't have their own contributions because they'll have to spend money on something else. Will local governments also benefit from this aid? We're just hearing about it right now, we don't know any solutions, and people are already paying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u279	Thank you very much. Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As regards the comparison between Poland and other countries with regard to electricity prices for final consumers - I think that this was particularly the case for the Member - it is worth looking at the following figures. According to data published by the European Commission concerning the second quarter of 2018, the unit cost of electricity delivered to households was as follows: in Poland - 620 PLN for 1 MWh, in Germany - about 1300 PLN for 1 MWh, and in the UK - about 830 PLN for 1 MWh. These figures show that households in Poland e.g. they pay twice as much for energy as farms in Germany. If we look at the prices of electricity without taxes, for companies, we will see that the situation is similar: also, taking into account national averages, Polish companies pay much less than companies operating in other countries of the European Union, so in Poland it is about 370 PLN per MWh, in Germany - about 650 PLN per MWh, in the UK - about 559 PLN per MWh. Moving from national averages to individual data, it should be noted that energy-intensive companies exist, e.g. in Germany, which pays less for electricity than energy-intensive companies in Poland, but this situation will soon change, as the government is preparing special compensations also for energy-intensive companies and reductions in the amount of the qualitative fee. So if we want to sum it up, we can say that this programme, which we are preparing for next year, assumes that the cost of the electricity bill for the unit consumption of this energy next year will not change due to the prepared compensation scheme for all those who are connected at low voltage. They're not gonna touch all these shifts. This is actually the main point of my answer. I would also like to add that given, however, the increase in the obligation to sell electricity through the stock exchange, the aim of this change [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is stabilisation, so I think this will also make these prices more stable and will benefit, above all, large companies buying energy in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question five. The question raised by Members Jerzy Gosiewski, Adam Oldakowski and Jerzy Małecki from Law and Justice on improving air quality by increasing the availability of green fuel, natural gas, by taking action to increase the possibility of connecting to the gas distribution network - the question to the Minister of Energy. Here you go, Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u282	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, According to the government of the Republic of Poland's sustainable development policy, we are asking for a strategy for the development of gasification for the country, including for less developed regions. Wide gasification would have a positive effect on improving air quality. Increasing access to green gas fuel can be an important means of combating the so-called phenomenon. particularly low emissions, which is one of the main environmental problems in Poland. Gas fuel may be an alternative to high-carbon heating systems in the municipal and residential sector, which are currently the main source of pollutant emissions. The gap in gasification between developed regions and underdeveloped regions, including Warmia-Mazurski, is increasing every year. This situation makes it impossible to balance the opportunities for the development of regions. Extensive gasification for economically underdeveloped areas would stimulate economic prosperity and compensate for development differences. The Warmia-Mazury region is currently the least developed economic region, with the largest unemployment, among others. because our region, especially in rural areas, is only minimally gassed. Minister, how do you intend to increase the level of gasification of the country, including gasification of poor areas, especially rural areas in Warmia and Mazury? The question will be added by Mr Adam Oldakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u283	Thank you. I must add that we represent, among others, here. The counties of Mrągowski, Kętrzynski and Bartoszycki, where unemployment is the largest, and our poor inhabitants then use the worst fuels, which is the greatest pollution. Also, let me remind you that [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is a pipeline running alongside these towns, which is very close when it comes to gas distribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u284	Thank you. Please respond to Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski's Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We all know that combating air pollution is a major challenge. In Poland, about 3 million single-family houses are still using low emissions of solid fuels and garbage. This in turn contributes to significant air pollution and is one of the main causes of smog formation. Natural gas is a low-carbon fuel that can be successfully used in the fight against smog and harmful to health dust. For this reason, the purpose of the Ministry of Energy is among others. promoting the use of natural gas in households. We are going in this direction, taking into account these diversification possibilities concerning gas, which Poland already has at the moment, it is the very fact of the existence of a gasport, but we are also looking at the prospect of launching a gas pipeline to Norway. We are therefore making systematic efforts to increase the availability of gas in new regions by expanding the gas system and accessing it. An important priority of the energy policy of the Government of Law and Justice is investment in the modernisation of the existing gas distribution network and the construction of a new gas distribution network. The expansion of the distribution system is extremely important. So in mid-October I informed that the investments in the expansion and modernisation of the gas distribution network carried out by the national distribution network operator of the Polish Gas Company are accelerating thanks to our efforts. I would like to remind you that PGNiG's dividend for the previous year was also allocated to the capital injection, to the start-up, to the strengthening of precisely these investments. Thus, additional funding by PGNiG was directed to investments in gas networks. Officially announced a month ago, our program, which will be implemented by the Polish Gas Company, which was announced with the participation of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Halinów, the program of accelerating investment in the gas network of Poland, will be implemented in the years 2018 to 2022. Under this programme we plan to build 4817 km of distribution network and 32 thousand. new gas connections and removal of system restrictions and expansion of nine high-voltage pipelines with an estimated length of approx. 580 km. So by 2022, thanks to these actions A total of 300 new municipalities will have access to natural gas. In voivodships least gassed, i.e. in Podlaskie Voivodship, it is planned to gasify 26 communes, in Łódź Voivodship - 44, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Warmia-Mazurskie - 16 communes. So this will take place proportionally, depending on how large the number of municipalities in each voivodeship is: where there are more gassed communes, there will be fewer localities, and where there is less, there will be more. So we want to bring about an even development of the gas grid. The aim of this whole action is that 90% of the Polish population will have access to the gas network in 2022, which will be extremely important in terms of all planned actions of Poland in reducing harmful emissions. On the other hand, the actions we are pursuing are aimed at bringing into force the new tariff regulation for natural gas, which has been in force since the beginning of April this year. The purpose of this Regulation is also to rapidly develop the gas system and increase the use of natural gas in the economy. This Regulation should facilitate the decision to connect potential customers to the gas network for which the cost of connection has so far been a financial barrier. In the first place, the Regulation exempts customers who can be connected to the network from charging connection fees without the operator having to carry out additional works. In practice, this applies to those customers who have existing connections and who have not used them so far. The regulation also makes it possible to reduce the charges for connecting to the network of domestic customers living in areas for which a new air protection programme has been adopted. The new rules also provide consumers with greater control over the consumption of natural gas. I have this conviction that all of our actions will lead to the fact that the consumption of natural gas, which is comfort, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but also such a civilizational goal for our households, also contribute to the development of business activities, and will make our economy grow further and make it much easier for households to function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u286	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Gosievski for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u287	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, The proposed changes to the investment rules mentioned by the Minister are very important and will certainly improve the implementation of gas investments in Poland. However, they do not take into account the specificities of poorer regions such as the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship, extensive territorially, with little population and little industrialisation. It is these elements that make the economic viability of the investment not met and the investment is not realised and the gap between the regions is growing and, even after these changes have been introduced, will increase even further. A solution is desirable to allow gasification of poorer regions. We suggest, for example. a programme covering specific bridges for regions dedicated to road investments. Another problem, even in gassed areas, is the fact that gas for the population is difficult to access. Let me give you an example: in one of the most rapidly developing cities, located on the only S16 expressway, there is no gas station in Mrągów or any point where the resident [[♪ The bell ♪]] he could get information on where he signed the contract. And there was a big gas plant. The nearest gas plant is several dozen kilometers away from Mrągów. This is a major obstacle for residents who often give up gas. This is an obvious loss for residents, but also for the State Treasury, the owner of the gas company. Minister, are there any changes planned in this area, e.g. creation of gas works or gas works or customer service points, at least restoring what used to be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u288	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To answer these additional questions, I would like to stress that the Sejm is currently considering a law in which, through cooperation with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, we intend to exempt from the need to obtain a decision on the authorisation to build a gas network with a maximum working pressure of 0,5 MPa, which will significantly improve the expansion of the gas distribution network. The government is also considering a comprehensive regulation of the investment and construction process in relation to linear investments so that it is not necessary to prepare further specialities dedicated to selected infrastructure projects. The Ministry of Energy is also currently working on amending the Energy Law Act. The project is at the stage of public consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements. One of the objectives of this revision is a comprehensive review of the existing regulations in order to adapt them to changing conditions in a liberalised market. The gasification acceleration programme adopted by the company also includes proposals for regulatory changes in order to allow a wider expansion of the distribution system. The Ministry will review the company's proposal in order to increase the efficiency of the implementation of these investments. In response to customers' expectations regarding the reduction of distribution rates, Poland Gazownictwo has made a great effort in recent years and has made significant changes in the organisation of its activities in order to reduce costs. Since the beginning of 2017, she started working in a new organizational structure correlated with the administrative division of Poland. There are 17 branches of gas plants, one in each voivodship, and 230 units of land were created. This was a major challenge for the company, but the aim was to improve communication with the customer and shorten decision-making paths and the way in which documents were circulated. I would like to point out that in the territory of Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship within the Polish Gas Company there are six gas plants and five gas stations, which allows customers to contact the company in 11 locations. I would also like to point out, referring to the number of municipalities in the voivodship, that the number of institutions that provide service to recipients from Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship exceeds the average national level. I have the assurance of the Polish Gas Company that it will respond flexibly to the needs of customers and that it is open to social dialogue regarding the needs of customers. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u290	Thank you very much, Minister. And I'm announcing a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 25 hours 14 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We continue with the current questions. Now the sixth question, formulated by Mr Beata Małecka-Libera and Mr Mark Hok of the Civic Platform, on the increased incidence of measles - to the Minister for Health. Please, Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! It seemed that infectious diseases were already outside of us and that it was impossible for us to talk about it today, and yet impossible has become possible. 144 cases of new diseases in Poland are indeed a huge, big challenge for public health. We thought, we thought, that we would only be dealing with civilizational diseases, and here we have a phrase that really requires very violent, good and new solutions. The problem is not only for children who are not vaccinated. We know that anti-vaccine movements didn't help here, but did do some damage. Until yesterday, this disgraceful bill, which was in the Seym, changed the reality of vaccination. Today, fortunately, MEPs, including PiS Members, voted against this shameful project. And I hope, Minister, that we will now all start a dialogue together, what we can do to calm society down, to educate them properly, to raise awareness among citizens in this area. My question is: What are the plans of the Minister for the coming time to increase this awareness, e.g. by introducing an hour for health in schools, which we have been asking for for for a long time. And I would also like to know your position on the arrivals, because we also have measles. What are the new regulations going to be here, and what is your attitude towards the possible limitation of access to kindergartens for people, for children who will not be vaccinated? I'm asking you to explain your strategy for the years to come.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u292	Thank you. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Zbigniew Józef Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you very much for this question, Madam President, because this is kind of part of a series of debates on the validity of an incredibly effective form of treatment, the form of prevention of vaccination. I share the view on the evaluation of the bill, which last night by the forces of all Members practically in the Committee on Health was blocked, because I think that the information that was included there, or the foundations of this draft law simply did not fully entitle us to proceed over this type of act in our parliament. It is also important to stress that we have experience in Poland, also resulting from specific scientific studies, indicating the effectiveness of this form of treatment, i.e. vaccination. Their effectiveness is high enough that we just forgot about infectious diseases. I studied pediatrics at a time when we still had fires - very small but quite important and visible - diseases such as polio, with paralysis, paralysis, with specific anatomical effects, in children, young people at the time. We were just finishing the eradication of the black pox that reaped the death toll. And thanks to the program, mainly vaccinations, these cases were eliminated. Indeed, it is surprising that this occurs in Europe, because it has not only happened in Poland. We can say that we are actually seeing an increase in the number of measles in almost all European countries. I would remind you that around 2010, 2011, we hoped that measles, like polio, would be eradicated in the world population. The measles themselves are a virus that occurs only in humans, therefore relatively easily through specific prophylaxis - and here we have vaccinations - it was possible to eliminate this disease, so to speak. As for the data, we actually have 144 + 40 cases. This is information from the whole year. The percentage of cases is indeed higher than last year, but over the years we observe that this is an average of about 100 cases per year, so we are seeing an increase, but this increase is managed. The health inspection shall identify each of these cases. Each of these cases is secured, including those in the vicinity of the patient are vaccinated within 72 hours, which simply do not cause complications. So that we have, so to speak, at this moment, a good time to use our main tool to prevent infectious diseases, namely health inspection. As far as plans were concerned, they did not necessarily start with the increase in measles. From today it is published in schools for parents a letter signed by the Minister for National Education and the Chief Health Inspector on the need for vaccination, the need for prevention, which makes it clear that these medicines, these therapeutic formulas are best tested and are most suitable, especially for children, young people and people who are vaccinated against infectious diseases. In addition, in preparation for dealing with various kinds of opinions, mainly representatives of anti-vaccine movements, but also parents, we will modify the vaccination calendar. Here the first such star from last year - I think even a big star - is the introduction of vaccination against pneumococcals, which we have been waiting for as a medical environment several years since they were developed. They are already included in the vaccination calendar. We want to strengthen the role of the calendar here, as well as to strengthen confidence in the medical environment. I observed yesterday during the debate with great surprise, and perhaps you too, the comments of people who have medical diplomas. Clearly, we need public health support and thinking about the health of society in the environment of doctors, nurses and people who deal with the professional system every day. It's hard for me to say more about strategies right now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the mandatory preventive vaccination system is based on the vaccination calendar and this calendar will be modified from next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u294	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Mark Hok.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, until recently, we were one of the countries with the highest status - more than 95%. - and it put us to sleep a little bit. On the other hand, several months' observations, most recently dramatic, as well as many years' observations, show that there were still cases of non-vaccination in 2010. There were about 3,000 of them. on a yearly basis, and in 2017 - almost 30,000. The Minister read my questions because I just wanted to ask you what your plan is for changing the vaccination calendar. Polyvalent vaccines should certainly be introduced and consideration should be given to whether or not measles should be vaccinated as early as 9 months of age, when the mother's immunity is slowly dying, and whether 13. the month is not too late. As the Minister said, we fought for vaccination against pneumococci and today confirms this need for dramatic evidence: a 14-month-old child died because parents refused vaccination against pneumococci [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they wanted to treat the baby to the end with vitamin C.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u296	Thank you. Please, Minister Zbigniew Józef Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u297	In answer to an unanswered question, I spoke about the calendar in the previous part, but I would like to refer to what is being done when it comes to awareness. We are currently working together with the National Institute of Public Health, PZH and the Chief Sanitary Inspector to prepare an assessment of where data are coming from, which are so widely transmitted, which are testing the vaccination programme. We are at the final stage of the analysis and this assessment of the data source indicates some kind of expansion of mythology without scientific evidence, communication of information or duplication of unreliable information without support from their scientific workshop and without reference to scientific evidence-based medicine. So after analysing this issue and identifying the data sources, we simply want to be thoroughly informed when false thesis is created. Often the doctor's dilemma is that parents need to be informed in accordance with the truth, i.e. when they ask about the side effects of any medicine, including vaccines, each doctor will say that there are possible side effects. Therefore, we want to arm doctors with information about how these undesirable effects should be commented on and presented to parents. If we have such a situation in Poland that for about 2 million doses of vaccine we have registered about 3 thousand. adverse events, most of which are redness and swelling at the injection site, are not likely to be dangerous enough, and it is certainly not dangerous enough to prevent deaths caused by infectious diseases. The calendar of preventive vaccination plays its part, but the calendar itself did not decide that the level of implantation in our country was high. Individuals who carry out vaccinations and who promote vaccinations also have an important role to do. This is how I have always understood the role of a doctor and the role of a nurse, and I would like us to return to what was once worked out to the highest degree. However, we do see the emergence of polyvalent vaccines that reduce the number of punctures, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and at the same time modify the date of administration. What the honourable Member, the doctor, was talking about, is possible to introduce, but we need a solid debate on this issue when preparing a new study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u298	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question was formulated by Monika Wieliczhowska, Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska and Arkadiusz Myrcha from the Civic Platform and concerns the celebration of the anniversary of the century of Poland's regaining independence. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rulers were 3 years old and over 200 million to organize national celebrations on the occasion of the century of regaining independence by Poland. Polish people and Poles were hoping for exceptional events, a unique setting, a special day. This uniqueness, however, brought about the organisation of a march in chaos, without order, composition and security. We don't know if there's gonna be two days, if there's gonna be one march, if there's gonna be two marches, and today we still don't know who's gonna be the organizer. Will the organizer be President Duda, who encouraged Poles and Poles to celebrate together during the march organized by ONR and the All-Polish Youth, and then withdrew from his participation in it? Will the organizer be the president with the Prime Minister, who on November 7th in the afternoon, three days before the celebration of the 100th anniversary, decided to organize a common march? As the head of the Prime Minister's firm says, two sparks are to fly, an anthem is to be sung, the president will speak and the march will begin. Will it be the march of nationalist organizations that carried them a year ago? On the banners and on the mouth they had fascist and racist slogans, to which the voivodship legally and by decision gave a cyclical march organization on November 11th? Why do I ask? Because today the government is negotiating a common march with extreme nationalists, and that's shame and embarrassment. Or will there be two marches in Warsaw that will overlap? What exactly, Minister, is going to happen on 11 November in Warsaw in a few dozen hours? In addition to the free November 12th, established in complete chaos, in addition to the planned unveiling of the monument Lech Kaczyński, which will dominate the nearby monument of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, but in front of everything who stood there in violation of the law. In addition to appealing to the compatriots to sing themselves an anthem, no one knows where, maybe at home, in the kitchen or in front of the TV. What services will safeguard the celebrations if a third of the police station was still on L4 yesterday? Who's gonna march? [[♪ The bell ♪]] or the marches were secured, since the Prime Minister of the Government says that the organizers are unable to ensure a peaceful course of manifestation, and the chief police officer writes a desperate letter to the police: Let us not allow bandits to rule on the streets. Information, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u300	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We got some quiet questions in writing, and here I just listened to the questions... [[The situation is dynamic.]] Okay, the situation is dynamic. ...spoken in a form of quite aggressive and aggressive, I will try to answer them calmly, but above all, questions proving the total ignorance of the Member who formulated these questions. If you are asking for PLN 240 million to organise or implement a multi-annual government programme, then you should know when you were preparing for this speech that this money is not for the 2 days you are asking for, only for 6 years. For 6 years, because the programme is implemented from 2017 to 2022 and has three pillars - it has a pillar of local and regional events, it has a pillar of central events, organised mainly by leading cultural institutions, and finally the pillar of international events, promoting Polish culture and Polish historical experience in the world. As far as this local pillar is concerned, we have already reported more than 3.5 thousand. events in 2017 and 2018, many of them already completed, many of them supported, co-financed. The same is true of the leading institutions of culture. Even today I invite the Member of the Royal Castle to the opening of the exhibition "Liberty Marks," a magnificent exhibition showing works of art related to the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Yesterday in the Royal Łazienki - an exhibition of the World of Orders, leading Polish awards for 100 years, presented and collected from all over the world. Finally, 400 events in the world, in the most important concert halls, exhibition halls, museums. This 240 million goes to all these events. I hope, however, that Mrs Wielichowska has some orientation and I hope that she has participated in such events as: "Szczawieńskie way to independence" - this is a party presented by the Szczawna-Zdrój Society of Lovers, 22,2 thousands. zł we have dedicated to this event, the exhibition "Polonia" - a symbol of tradition, a sign of modernity in the 100th anniversary of Poland's rebirth. Ghost - Hope - Nation - Victory - presented by Wałbrzych Art Gallery Art Exhibitions Bureau - support 130 thousand. zł, Święto Niepodległość w Kamieniec Ząbkowicki - notified by Gminne Centrum Kultury w Kamień Ząbkowicki - support 35,7 thousand. The contemporary image of the past as an integrating element of the generation - reported by Bystrica Kłodzka Municipal Centre of Culture, supported by funds of 24.5 thousand. zł. I hope that you participated in these events, that you even know that such things happen, that you supported these projects with your patriotic sensitivity, because we supported them from the budget you were asking about. As for the events of November 10th and 11th, because you specifically asked, if you showed such ignorance, that you say that nothing interesting except the march is happening, I inform you and invite you. Tomorrow, if you think you need to... [[Eleven o'clock.]] Eleven o'clock? [[That was the question.]] You're only limited to the 11th. You're welcome. If you think that, for example. We also need to thank God for the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, or pray that Providence will favour us in the future, I invite you at the hour. 9 for the great national mass in the Temple of Divine Providence in Wilanów, and then for the ceremony of planting oaks of independence, oaks of creators of Polish independence from 100 years ago, these six most important creators of Polish independence. If you are interested in a public ceremony, then on 11 November at 3 p.m. 12 is a solemn debriefing worth, a traditional debriefing in front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and singing the hymn. You disrespectfully said about it, where we sing, whether we sing at home. No, ma'am, we've already registered 700 places in Poland. Why don't you go in your constituency number two and see where the NGOs are, you know, you love NGOs, or the local cultural institutions have reported their willingness to join in singing the hymn together. They organize people, people will come and sing an anthem in 700 places in Poland. I hope you join one of these places in your constituency. Then I invite you if you will not be in your district and in Warsaw at the time. 13 on Krakowskie Przedmieście, where there will be a great Independence Festival in Krakowskie Przedmieście. From the beginning to the end of this Warsaw salon, this beautiful street, presentation in the form of educational Polish historical experience, Polish music, Polish fashion 20th interwar anniversary, culinary, very attractive things for children, also educational, old cars, old carriages and the opportunity to participate in this event. If you decide to stay in Warsaw, of course I invite you to the Royal Castle to present the Orders of the White Eagle to 25 Poles who are already dead, but who obviously deserve this award, because these are emblematic characters from our 100-year history. And finally - I'm sure you got this invitation - I invite you very cordially at the time. 8:15 p.m. at the National Stadium for a big concert... Sorry, it's Saturday night. For a great concert dedicated to Polish independence - 40 most important Polish artists, Polish song and song [[♪ The bell ♪]] in new arrangements. Everyone's gonna sing because we all know these songs. There's gonna be a broadcast on three big TVs, so if you don't show up in person, I'd recommend some commercial or public television to broadcast. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u302	Thank you very much. And Mrs Wielichowska, an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u303	Minister! I took the liberty of asking some other questions, because the situation is dynamic, first of all. Secondly, it is good that you mentioned what they do in the local government regions, because it was the local authorities in Poland that carried out this task. The government couldn't handle this job and the president couldn't. I'll say it again: you've wasted 3 years and over 200 million PLN. From the great celebration, the joint celebration of our pride, the presence of world guests and exceptional events came great nothing. The President's underpants and the government's underpants. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Unless I'm wrong, unless you forgot something, that besides singing the anthem and marching extreme nationalists, we expect global guests, events that we will all remember for a long time, because we have something to celebrate - 100 years ago after 123 years of partitions Poland, which lived only in hearts and minds, was reborn. A second Christmas like this, Minister, we'll never have another one in our lives. The authorities, the President, the Prime Minister and the Government of Law and Justice, have plunged [[♪ The bell ♪]] our joint celebration in chaos and disorganization.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u304	Thank you. The Minister doesn't want to talk anymore. [[I'm not surprised.]] We therefore move to the next question, formulated by Mrs Lichocka and Ms Czerwinska from Law and Justice, on the protection of the monuments of modernist architecture. Question to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please, Mrs Joanna Lichocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u305	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'll admit I'm a little embarrassed about the level of the previous question, which is really out of bad will, and I don't think there's any knowledge of the celebrations. [[Please do not review the statements made by Members.]] I'm embarrassed, I repeat, what we just heard from the opposition bench. I would like to learn from the Minister of Culture and National Heritage what actions have been taken by the government in the field of modernist architecture protection. We know that many monuments of this architecture die under the pressure of various developers and local businesses in cities. In Warsaw such an example is, for example, what happened with the construction on Grochov, on the Windfall Roundabout, is about the supersam of Grochov. But I would like to know if, in addition to such concrete actions concerning these modernist buildings from the post-war period, there are also some actions concerning the modernism of the interwar period, the 20s and 30s, when architecture was one of the elements of the construction of the Polish identity. We have several, many examples of the realization of such architecture at a very global level and I would like to know if the Ministry also took action in the framework of the celebration of the 100th anniversary to promote this effort of free Poland in the field of architecture. So this question is made up of two parts: one which measures have been taken to protect the monuments of modernism, and the other which measures have been taken to promote them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u306	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question, because the concern that you have shared is also very close to me, for a very simple reason - I was born in Gdynia, I lived in Gdynia and the parliamentary mandate for 10 years was fulfilled with Gdynia, and Gdynia is, you can say, our card of modernism from the interwar period, widely known also in the world, because it was built quite uniformly from the very beginning to the end of the 20th interwar anniversary in this architectural style. And such a urban plan, thoughtful and consistently implemented, is actually not in the world. Perhaps outside Tel Aviv and not by chance between Gdynia and Tel Aviv, and such an exchange of experiences takes place, and there are joint conferences to show common sources or artistic inspirations, because to a large extent Tel Aviv was built by architects of Jewish origin from Germany and Poland. However, I understand concern because in the last 20 years we have lost many valuable objects of post-war modernism in Poland. Examples such as the demolition of the supersam or Moscow cinema in Warsaw, or the station in Katowice, or the Jagiellonian Hall in Białystok, or the bus station in Toruń are widely known.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u308	Excuse me, Minister, because this buzzing lady Wielichowska I just can't stand it anymore. Madame, I would like to invite you to the roundabouts as you wish to discuss with your colleague. Okay? [[I'm sorry.]] Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: On the one hand, the destruction of these interesting objects was the result of a lack of public awareness, and on the other hand, a certain conservation practice established on the basis of a circular by the former monument conservator from the time of the PO-PSL government. However, over the years we begin to see how important objects of pre- and post-war modernism are from the point of view of the cultural heritage of Poland. Over the years, the architecture of the period of modernism due to its simple forms and lack of detail has been wrongly judged simply as of little value. Due to the lack of recognition of historical values, construction of this period is particularly vulnerable to far-reaching changes and inappropriate interference during renovation or as part of the development of urban spaces. Dr Magdalena Gawin, current general monument conservator, Deputy Minister of Culture, has been working for several years to change the conservation policy on modernist architecture, recognising the need to protect this valuable category of monuments. She noted this in a letter of February 2016 addressed to all voivodship monument conservators, in which she restored the possibility of recognizing architectural works from the 1960s and 1970s as monuments. In April 2016, the Council for the Protection of Monuments operating at the Minister of Culture, consisting of authorities in the field of the protection of monuments, adopted a resolution on the protection of the architectural heritage and urban planning of the 20th century in Poland. Moreover, it should be noted that at the initiative of the Ministry of Culture in September ub. The provisions of the Article have changed. 81 Act on the protection of monuments and the care of monuments, which gave local governments the basis for granting grants for works also on the monuments included in the municipal register of monuments, and not only those entered in the register of monuments. Since most of the modernist architecture objects are only included in these records, in the municipal heritage records, the possibility of financing works carried out on these monuments has so far been lacking. Now we have that possibility. Given the importance of this issue, the Ministry and General Conservator support numerous conferences and scientific events on this subject, organised at home and abroad, simply to raise public awareness of the value of these facilities. It took place, among others. The conference "Modernism' is protected by the law. In this way we disseminate knowledge about the value of this architecture. Under the honorary patronage of the Minister of Culture, there is also an annual international conference entitled: Modernism in Europe - Modernism in Gdynia. The architecture of the 20th century - research and popularization. Moreover, this problem is addressed by the general conservationist of monuments in the context of numerous interviews in the press, as well as radio and television interviews, which certainly contributes to the popularization of knowledge in this area. I must say, I must reveal that this subject is often taken at meetings of the management of the Ministry at the initiative of the General Monument Preserver, and actions are even taken in relation to specific objects. In conclusion, during the debate, the maintenance of modernism: the practice of utopia, Mrs Magdalena Gawin, declared her support with regard to efforts to include the modernist team of downtown Gdynia on the UNESCO World Heritage List. This would be the first such example in our country as a symbol of the activities of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage undertaken in recent years. Work on preparing this proposal, including it on the so-called. the UNESCO information list, are already advanced and we hope that this magnificent example of modernist architecture will soon be known and appreciated around the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that our debate is being listened to by a group of altar boys from the parish of Divine Providence from Kalisz with the guardian of Fr. Andrew the Ball. Welcome. I ask Mrs Lichocka to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u309	I was still curious - I did not get the answer to these questions - whether during the 100th anniversary of regaining independence some actions were taken to disseminate knowledge about architectural achievements in the field of free Poland architecture in the 20s. This does not apply only to Gdynia, of course, but I would like to know what actions of this type have been undertaken, especially since I recently read that at the moment in Minsk in Belarus there is an exhibition concerning Polish architecture as a Polish-Belarusian heritage, where examples of Polish modernism are shown. I would like to find out, perhaps not now, perhaps it will be possible to give a written reply, whether any particular attention was given to the development of the architecture of interwar Poland as part of the celebration of the 100th anniversary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u310	You're welcome, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u311	I will respond so warmly, because actually a few days ago in Krakow at the International Centre for Culture in the context of the events covered by the programme, an exhibition on the architecture of independence of the whole of Central Europe was opened. Because this institution of the International Centre for Culture in Krakow is primarily interested in the history and culture of our region, the region of Central Europe, and just on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence not only by Poland, but by a number of countries of Central Europe - on the occasion of either the regaining of independence by some countries, or for the first time in the history of some countries - is such an exhibition of architecture of independence of Central Europe presented. This is rather the architecture of modernism, because most of the buildings, especially public buildings, built in our region of Europe between wars, were works inspired by this trend of architecture, which was modernism. The institute of architecture and urban planning, which we have recently established, also submitted a project that will be supported. It will be an exhibition, a publication and a conference on the district architecture of the 20th anniversary. It's also about public buildings. Very many public buildings were built in the 20th interwar anniversary, which we still use - various offices function in them. Warsaw is full of this type of buildings, but the institute of architecture and urban planning has been interested in local architecture, district architecture from the 20th anniversary, and this project will focus on this topic. In the Polish Film Institute there is a complex film project, a documentary film project, which tells about the modernism of the 20th interwar anniversary. I hope that the creators will effectively, effectively finish this project, and we will have such a film in our portfolio, we will be able to show it. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u312	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question raised by Members Jan Mosiński and Eve Tomaszewska from Law and Justice on cooperation between the Polish central authority and the central authorities of other countries, in particular the UK and Germany, in the context of the Act on the execution of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements - the question to the Minister of Justice. We look forward to Mr Mosiński... [[I could...]] Unless you... [[I'll ask the question, then.]] Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u313	Our concern is the issue of cooperation between the Polish central authority and the central authorities of other countries, especially the UK and Germany. This is about issues related to the rights of Polish children, first of all, to language, to their own culture, in particular where there is interference from other countries, such as in relation to mixed marriages in Germany, where Jugendamt, due to the income that it obtains, is able to receive children in an unjustified manner and at the same time to transfer them to families with a completely different tradition, different religion, different culture. So on such issues, we are interested in the possibility of interacting with the central authorities of other countries. How does it look today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u314	Thank you, Member. And I'm asking you to answer... Is there anything else Mr Mosiński would like to add?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u315	If you don't mind, sir, in two sentences. I have a question for the Minister about the actions which the Polish government has taken, because it is known that the Minister is doing quite a lot in this situation to support the efforts of Polish families to maintain uniformity, and unfortunately, in particular, the German Jugendamt has some strange policy of taking children away for any reason. I have two questions, if you don't mind, Minister, briefly. What was the recent cooperation of the Polish Central Authority with the central authorities of other countries, in particular Germany and the United Kingdom, in this area? And did the approach change, e.g. Services [[♪ The bell ♪]] Social in the UK and Jugendamt in Germany to Polish citizens as a result of the act of 26 January 2018 in the central round? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u316	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u317	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Let me answer this question a little more broadly, because it has been properly specified for two countries - Germany and the United Kingdom. I have to say... [[Holland.]] ...tonight I came back from Holland, where I had the opportunity to pay a visit. As it turned out, this was the first visit of a person in the rank of Secretary of State in the history of Polish-Dutch relations on a specific issue concerning children. It is known that the Polish minority is very large also in the Netherlands, that is at least 170 thousand. people, but it's said to be even more. We have raised issues that have actually been raised during all my visits that I had previously made in countries, precisely because of questions such as those that were just asked - it was Germany, it was the United Kingdom, it was Belgium, it was Norway too, that is, wherever there are large concentrations of Polish citizens - to try to improve the flow of information between central authorities, that is the first thing, but also to listen to what our citizens have to say, how we can support them. The scenario of these visits is always very similar, i.e. a visit to the Minister, who is my counterpart in the Ministry of Justice, usually in the Ministry of Justice, sometimes in the Ministry of Justice of the Family, and secondly, it is possible meeting, always meeting with representatives of Polish associations, as well as, thirdly, with non-governmental organisations that operate in the country and which deal with the issue, among others. mediation. And I want to say that a lot has changed since I paid a visit - together with experts from the Ministry of Justice, sometimes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - abroad. Since then, information has been improved primarily, because what is most important is a rapid exchange of information. It's working much better today than before. That's the first thing. Of course, the bill helped us a lot. The reform we carried out entered into force at the end of August. It is a reform that provides for a number of important elements. First, specialist courts, specialized judges - they have already passed the first round of training at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Krakow. The fact that the Attorney General has the opportunity to file an emergency complaint with the Supreme Court... I'm sorry, an annulment, an appeal to the Supreme Court. That there's a lawyer's obligation. The fact that the Polish child must not be released abroad until a final decision is issued. It was completely different before. For several weeks there have been completely new regulations, among others. also provide for time limits - 6 weeks for each stage. This hasn't happened before. And it is very praised abroad, because it was not in Poland, things sometimes took several years. But there's also the second part of all of this, which is the question of e.g. placing children in foster families where the identity of the child is not preserved. We always say this, this is the first point of discussion in each country, always the first point - the identity of the child. Tradition, religion, culture, language, religion, what I said before, are very important elements, they consist of the identity of the child. This is regulated in individual Member States, in their systems. Each country regulates it differently. These systems sometimes have a very long tradition. It was Poland that proposed an amendment to the Brussels II bis regulation. We just want to move. it is at the level of EU, Community solutions, in order to introduce a provision that says that the identity of the child must always be preserved. So what is in the child's right card always has to be used, it's an article. 8, 20. This is very important. The identity of the child is to be preserved. The discussion is, of course, ongoing. She's very difficult, but if it works... And let me remind you that a few weeks ago he visited Poland, among others. Minister for Justice of Austria. It is now the Austrian Presidency. By the end of December we want to discuss these proposals: Polish, Hungarian, Latvian. If we can do this, it's going to be a really giant breakthrough in these relationships. And this will apply not only to Poland, but also to all the Member States of the European Union. When it comes to Great Britain, I'll be brief. I would like to see in many countries such regulations as in the UK and such relations as they exist in the case of the central authority of Poland. If there is a procedure and we have information that there is a child who has Polish citizenship, then the British court informs us through a central British body, and we continue to check e.g. whether this child has relatives, if you have to put this child in foster care, whether Poles live there, who can be foster families in this country, and sometimes these children come to Poland. I think I will have good information for you as parliamentarians, Members, in the coming days. A special one, you might say. I hate to break it to you, but it should be good news. Sometimes there are also contradictions, as recently in the case concerning a girl who was probably deported from Poland to Italy. Please remember one thing: Minister Wójcik does not decide whether the child is to remain in Poland or not. We're the central authority. It is the courts that decide, the judges decide, the independent courts, the independent judges. But we're trying to do everything possible to keep the baby's well-being. Also, if there is a question about the Italian case, which is recently in the media, I am, of course, ready to answer in detail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u318	Thank you, Minister. [[Can I ask you a question?]] Yes, you're welcome. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u319	Thank you very much. Information about one of the Italian cases was also in my office. It was the case of a child detained in Italy. But I wanted to point out another point. I mean contacts with Sweden, where the family had problems of this kind, that it was an adult child with intellectual disabilities. I wanted to thank the Polish authorities very much for their rapid intervention and the granting of Polish citizenship to this child, even though he lived in Sweden and the father of Sweden sought not to do so. It gives us a chance to bring the child and proper care of him here in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because from my information, the baby was just not... that my father was planning on putting them in some nursing home, not taking care of him personally. So that would practically deprive them of their chances of developing in the family. I wanted to draw attention to the problem of adult children with disabilities, with which there may also be a problem with crossing the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u320	Thank you, Member. And here you go, Minister Michael Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u321	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, I will answer briefly, because I do not, of course, know the specific case. There are hundreds of cases like this a year. So, of course, we'll pay attention to that. I'm here with the warden, and you're the director of the department, the warden of the department who's taking care of it. I just want to say that these things are often not black and white. It is also important to be aware that sometimes something that looks superficially easy turns out to be very difficult. [[Yes.]] And when a person gets into a file - remember that the central body is more than a ministry, but less than a court - we look at it here sometimes in a completely different way. That's the first thing. On the other hand, something important has happened - I think - in recent years. Members signal and often write to us that these are specific matters. Thank you for the trust we have received from you. You have a lot of trust in us, and I have confidence in my people. There are 16 people who take care of these cases. That's a lot, because before that, there were two people who did it until we took over the government. There's a special department that handles these cases. On the other hand, I would like to say that foreign affairs also play a huge role. I would like to thank the Foreign Ministry very much. The person who directly deals with these matters is Minister Paper, but also diplomats, ambassadors, persons who perform other functions, diplomatic functions abroad. Usually, there's a consul who deals with this sort of thing. Without them, we wouldn't have done anything, it wouldn't have been possible. As in the case of Germany - e.g. you were Ambassador Przyłębski, who really was always very open, there was an immediate reaction, or there were people who perform other diplomatic functions in different parts of Germany - we react. There's been a recent case, including a media case. After 2 years, Grandma managed to bring a child, her granddaughter, to Poland. It was a media thing. The staff worked for it, not Minister Wójcik. I am merely pursuing the policy of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, who said that no more turning my back on the citizen - in these matters there is absolutely no agreement. That is why there is one reform and there is another - European. I hope it will be realized. And thirdly, this cooperation with the foreign affairs department. There the entire staff of people worked so that this child could return to Poland after 2 years. It's not that simple to do it during the day, two or three days, it's not possible, but a lot has been done in this field. I will also inform you of the effects of the discussions on the Brussels II bis regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u322	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question, the questions of Iwona Michalek and Wojciech Murdzk from Law and Justice on new regulations concerning student positions in the light of the implementation of the Constitution for Science. This is a question for the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the process of implementing a reform, a constitution for science - before higher education a lot of changes, a lot of new things. I work with universities and I talk to students. Students complain very much about the lack of contact with academics, say that studies do not create good conditions for creative, creative thinking and development, that most often there is testing, massage, there is no such contact, these relationships master - student, often academic teachers do not know their students at all. Similarly, universities have been preparing poorly and still, because it is only since October that this reform is being implemented, they are not preparing for the labour market, they are changing very slowly and therefore do not respond to the demand of industry. I will ask about the education of students, but my colleague will ask about social matters. Please, Minister, answer the question of what is changing in the education of students now, after the implementation of the Constitution for Science, and whether the student-university relationship is also changing, whether students have a better chance of [[♪ The bell ♪]] decide how universities and their education are conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u324	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Müller.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for these questions. I think that they relate in total to the fundamentals of the reforms carried out in the field of higher education law and science on the quality of education and study. To respond to this part of the issues that you have been talking about, I would like to say first of all that the reform of higher education and science has actually come into force and has actually started its entry into force on 1 October. This is a process spread over several years, and already two years ago we made some significant adjustments in terms of the functioning of education and the quality of education. This was, among others, the case. a change in the financial algorithm, which gradually leads to the fact that the master-student relationship in universities returns to this original. We introduced the principle that there should not be more than 13 students per teacher at a university, therefore universities They're adapting to that, too. On the other hand, in the financial algorithm that we are predicting, which is in the course of an opinion in universities, which will be laureates, in research universities, it will ultimately be a 1:10 relationship. In this way, the master - disciple relationship will be able to be preserved all the more. In addition, what does the law introduce when it comes to training students? With regard to student training, we would like to emphasise first of all that we have introduced a mechanism for greater diversity of universities, above all the mission of universities, the type of mission can already be chosen entirely by the university itself. We have also put in place a number of important mechanisms that encourage the quality of education to be improved. First of all - we have allowed this in the financial algorithm - we actually finance training by practitioners. So far, if the practice was employed in a part-time university, the university did not receive any teaching posts for such an employee, which in fact resulted in the fact that often theorists were teaching in universities, and now, thanks to these financial solutions, we will encourage that practitioners also be employed in universities, because they will be directly funded in the financial algorithm. The second thing is the introduction of a higher quality dual education, mainly because we extend mandatory traineeships from 3 to 6 months in the case of first degree studies, define what dual studies are, and force the signing of an agreement with the employer to actually be training for real employers, and not just and possibly for needs that are not properly identified by universities. We also gave up the system of staff minima. This caused some kind of surprise maybe in the academic community, but we assume that classes should be conducted primarily by people who are prepared to conduct specific activities. If a person conducts a class, he must have the scientific or practical, professional experience necessary to conduct the course - it is not important whether he has a doctor's degree or a habilitation doctor, but whether he actually has significant professional experience or scientific publications in this field. We have also created new career paths, so-called. a teaching path, for didactics, i.e. for those who carry out their teaching passions. And so it will be possible, among others. taking up the position of teaching professor by persons who have a doctoral degree and significant educational or academic or professional achievements. This is also one of the mechanisms that has been introduced. In addition, we have extended the possibility of creating interdisciplinary studies. We have decided that university education should be assigned to the university as a whole, i.e. universities will be able to benefit from all the teaching potential, from all the current departments, and not just from individual units, because so far the right to study is assigned to basic organizational units. I know that the honourable Member has asked mainly about these elements, as I understand it, that you will ask about social aspects, but I would also like to refer to issues relating to the freeness of study, because this question has also emerged. Of course, we maintain the principle of free study. I will tell you more, there is a closed directory of additional fees, which is in the act so that no other fees are charged. She rightly said that there is some kind of tension between universities, public and private universities as regards the development of fees. In this respect, it must be made clear that at the request of the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland and the Independent Association of Students, we have created regulations that safeguard the interests of students. Universities from the following academic year prior to the admission of students for the following year of study, must announce a full catalogue of fees before recruitment. These charges must not be changed. In the event of a change in the amount of these fees, there will be financial penalties. We believe that it is a matter of fairness that this toll catalogue should actually be closed, permanent, unchangeable, to actually make this offer fair. As regards the participation of students in the functioning of the university, we have maintained good practices in the participation of students, among others. in collegial bodies such as the university senate, the university council, which is a new university body. The student council is still competent to consult, among others. as regards the study programme, but also agreeable competences as regards the rules of study and the setting of fees charged to students. It is also a question of scholarship rules. I would also like to stress that, in the case of solutions that have been introduced into the Constitution for Science, we continue to maintain the agreement of the student government on those who are managing student affairs. As I understand it, the Member will then ask questions concerning social matters. I'd be happy to answer that. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u326	Thank you. The supplementary question will be asked by Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u327	The Minister has already pointed out that it is still worth emphasising the issue of pay or free studies so that there is no dilemma, because such themes appear during the discussion. Perhaps the Minister would be kind to comment on this financial assistance that students can receive, to stress the support of those talented students who can actually concentrate on developing their talents by bringing in this social concern. What other elements may possibly affect such a sense of safe study and allow us to concentrate on scientific achievements, on science, rather than on the care to ensure that there is a university? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u328	Thank you, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Mr Piotr Müller will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u329	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As far as scholarship issues and social issues are concerned, we have, above all, maintained those elements that have been good in the existing system and enriched them with further ones. As regards social grants, scholarships for people with disabilities, scholarships for the rector, this system has been maintained but will be modified from next academic year. It's about the following things. I think it's worth talking about. First of all, with regard to the welfare system, the catalogue of situations for which assistance can be provided has been extended simply to the difficult situation of life. It is therefore more flexible. It will also be possible to increase the social scholarship on the basis of the rules laid down in the rules of scholarship within the university, i.e. more widely than ever before. So far it has been a closed directory, which is worth highlighting. When it comes to people with disabilities, it is worth noting that we have changed our previous practice. If someone became a person with disabilities during his studies or after his first studies, he could no longer receive a scholarship just for people with disabilities. Therefore, this catalogue has been extended to include such cases as I just mentioned. I would also like to emphasise, as far as scholarships of a scientific nature are concerned, that we have introduced, among others. principle, and it is, I think, very important thing that the winners of the Olympic Games, the finalists of the Olympics concerned or the champions of Poland, as far as the sport concerned, the competition for the title of Polish champion, from the vending machine in the first year of studies will receive a scholarship from the rector. And that is to encourage the most talented to stay in the country, because we can already see a trend that the most talented students unfortunately are looking for opportunities to study abroad. This mechanism will automatically result in these people receiving the rector's scholarship. It will encourage them to stay at our universities. As regards student loans, I would like to stress that we have extended the possibility of applying for student loans. Before that, there was a limit to 25, now she's 30. Consider that there is this tendency to lifelong learning. Some for a few years after high school, e.g. They're working, they're going to college later. That is why we have introduced this solution. In addition, definitive arrangements are under way as regards the Student Credit Regulation. This Regulation will provide for the possibility to apply for student loans on a permanent basis and not on a yearly basis. In October, a student in his first year had to know if he needed that money already. When he found out in December that it was not enough for him, he had to wait almost a year to apply for this loan. I think this is a very good solution that will help students to take advantage of this possibility. I would also like to make it clear that, in terms of reducing fees, there are financial penalties for universities up to 50,000. zł. There will be financial penalties for unfair practices, for failure to give a diploma within the deadline, for the collection of fees not in accordance with the guidelines for the Regulation. I think it'll secure the students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u330	Thank you very much. We move on to another question addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure on plans of the Ministry of Infrastructure to improve the state of the roads leading to Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski. The first question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u331	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski is the second largest city in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, and it is also an important economic centre in this voivodship. Recently, representatives of 21 large companies operating in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski wrote a letter indicating a very important obstacle to the development of their companies, and this obstacle is the insufficient transport availability of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie and generally the northern part of Świętokrzyskie voivodship. The main road to Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski is the national road No. 9. The technical condition of this road and its limited capacity deprive these companies and their contractors of the ability to communicate efficiently with the main transport corridors such as the S7 expressway or the planned S74. For many years it has been said that there should be two-day national roads - the road 9 or road 42 mentioned by me - which would connect Ostrowiec, but also Starachowice with the express roads mentioned above. Unfortunately, despite these announcements, despite such plans, nothing concrete is happening. Given that the state of the roads leading to Ostrowiec is an important obstacle to the development of the economy of this city, I would like to ask the Minister what measures the Ministry of Infrastructure plans to take to improve the communication availability of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski with the rest of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u332	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are fully aware that Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski is one of the main cities of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. It is connected, as you have said, to other areas of the country directly through the national road No 9 and indirectly through the national road No 42 and the national road No 74. At a nearby distance we also have the S7 high-speed road near the road S74, and within 60 km in a straight line - built Via Carpatia, which connects Eastern Poland with the rest of the country and Europe in the north-south axis. On 5 November this year. the branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Kielce has announced a tender for the design and construction of the Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski ring road on Route 9. The so-called small ring road Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie with a length of approx. 2.6 km will connect the existing Brezelia node with Opatowska Street within the national road No. 9. As part of the investment it is planned to build integration into the junction, construction of viaduct over the district road, two bridges, culverts, a roundabout at the place where the new route no. 9 was included in the existing route. The preparatory work started in 2016. The investment will help to improve traffic safety, increase driving comfort for drivers travelling through transit as well as motorized from Ostrowiec itself, as well as the release from traffic and noise of city center residents. Currently road No 9 Radom - Rzeszów runs through Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski in urban streets, where average traffic in 2015 exceeded 23 thousand. vehicles daily. The opening of tenders in this tender is scheduled for 10 December 2018. Contractors will have a maximum of 39 months to design, obtain a decision to allow road investment and build a ring road. With regard to national roads 9 and 42, a number of investments have recently been carried out in the construction of pedestrian walkways, which will help to separate pedestrian traffic and ensure their safety. We have built pavements in the following villages on the route from Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskiego to the road S7, and in the nearest vicinity of this route: between Lubień and Rudniki on the national road no. 9 - a total of 2,3 km; in Nietulisko on the national road no. 9-1,5 km; in Kunów - 0,8 km; in Kunów km; in Miłków - 0,87 km; in Kuczów - 1,6 It's a kilometer. The total length of pavements built recently on the route connecting Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski with S7 and in its immediate vicinity is 7.1 km of pavement, and the total cost is 9 million PLN. Current activities: this year a new surface and horizontal marking were created in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie on almost 1 km of Opatowska Street on the national road No. 9. The work was completed on October 10th. The cost of renovation is 980,000. zł. October 18th this year began in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski repair of the intersection of Opatowska, Sandomierska and Zygmuntówka streets within the national road No. 9. As part of the renovation, a new surface will be installed at the intersection and a new horizontal marking will be made. In addition, the contractor will install new lighting control components, drivers and induction loops. As far as the future is concerned, the Directorate-General shall measure the traffic of all vehicles moving on national roads every 5 years. The last report under the name "General traffic measurement" was carried out in 2015. I have the results of this measurement in front of me, and as far as the national road number 9 is concerned, we do not see the need to expand the entire road lines to the two-way section, because on any of the sections examined, of course, apart from Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, we have not been dealing with exceeding 15 thousand. vehicles daily, and only at this point are we planning two-way roads. And that's actually all I wanted to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u334	Thank you very much. The supplementary question will be asked by Mr Bogdan Latosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for the information on national roads 9 and 42 and the city of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski. The information provided by the Minister indicates a solution to the problem of Ostrowiec itself, which is actually blocked. Our concerns, supported by the concerns of the entrepreneurs who have applied to the Prime Minister, raises the link between this central industrial centre from the past. This applies to three cities: Starachowice, Skarżyska and Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, which are also facing current problems, including higher unemployment than unemployment in the country. We remind you that in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski there is a steelworks and a connection with express roads, which would allow the national road number 9, the connection with Radom - this is about small sections [[♪ The bell ♪]] - it would allow for better communication between these centres, establishments, and thus affect the living standards of the inhabitants. I have a specific question: Is there a chance to improve this episode and if so, at what time? It's at least national road number nine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We did not anticipate such expenditure in the Roadmap by 2023, but, of course, this is a possibility for the next perspective. We're probably gonna be doing preparatory work, so please, if we could still get in touch outside the Sejm, we'd make some decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u338	Thank you very much. We were hoping we could talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u339	Thank you. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 39 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the ongoing protest of uniformed officers will be considered at this session of the Sejm, in particular the scale of the absence of police officers due to medical dismissals and the consequences of the situation in order to ensure the safety of citizens and the proper security of the National Independence Day celebrations, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Mr Mark Wójcik, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During this debate, we expect the Minister of the Interior to inform us about the situation in the police. This is primarily about the scale of the protest that has taken place in recent days and months, because it has to be stressed that it was a multi-month protest. It is also about the actions that have been taken by the Minister to resolve this dramatic situation in which the police have found themselves and about how to secure the coming festival of independence. High Izbo! We are pleased that this multi-month protest of uniformed services has ended, which has taken a very dramatic form in recent days because of the disregard of protesters by the government. We thank the social side for its readiness to talk and for its agreement. The situation was dramatic and continued to threaten the security of the state and citizens. We know that not all of the protesters' demands have been taken into account. We know that some protesters demanded a very radical reform of the entire police force. Therefore, on behalf of my parliamentary club, I would like to invite the trade union leaders to a meeting to discuss your proposals and in the future to draw up laws that will remedy these major problems raised by the officers. But at this point it is necessary to remind how a dramatic situation happened in the Polish Police. First of all, three years ago, in the election campaign, Law and Justice made many important promises to the officers. The problem is, in the last three years, they haven't even been tried to solve them. Social dialogue was brought to fiction and the social side was treated worse than in previous years. There was also a second reason that led to this dramatic situation. It's about running a staff cleanup in the police. At the beginning of your term of office, very many experienced officers were removed from the police, especially with great authority in their units. These authorities are missing from the police today. Thirdly, for three years the forces and means were wasted, regularly holding demonstrations of forces before the Sejm during the manifestation of the Smolensk monthly. There was no need to carry thousands of police officers around Poland, wasting money and the forces of these police officers. Officers were forced to do all sorts of unnecessary and frivolous things, the symbol of which will always be the cutting of confetti for Minister Zieliński. Fifthly, which is very important, the sacred principle of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been violated, that all uniformed services are treated equally. The government found money for real raises for VIPs protecting employees of the State Security Service and the Marshal's Guard, found money for special services, but did not find money for formations that are responsible for universal security, i.e. For the police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department. The officers of these formations felt that they had been completely forgotten, unnecessarily focusing only on the security of the VIPs. The sixth reason for the dramatic situation in the police and this dramatic protest and turn of events is a complete disregard for the protest of uniformed services. Minister! This protest began in June. At the beginning of the protesters' actions were actions that did not have any negative consequences for the citizens, but by your arrogance, the lack of perception of this protest, the lack of response, and often provocative statements, this protest has reached the stage we have been dealing with in recent days. I'll remind you what happened. Over 30,000. officers on sick leave, police paralysis, lack of police patrols on the streets of Polish cities, delays in interventions, cancelled trials, driving football fans around Poland without police escort, chaos during the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. This is dramatic chaos. Such a situation has never been in the Polish Police. This is an unprecedented situation, Minister, and the government is responsible for this situation, but also one man, Minister Jarosław Zieliński, who is directly supervising the uniform service. I would therefore like to ask Minister Joachim Brudziński: Did Minister Zieliński behave honorably in this situation and turn himself over to you, or did he resign on you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u341	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Joachim Brudziński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u342	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This speech by the Member can be divided into two parts. One part is the most substantive question that, as Minister of Government, as part of my duties towards the legislative authority, I have not only an opportunity but also an obligation to answer. This is the one part of your speech, sir. The rest was very strong political rhetoric, a manifestation. Of course, we're in a place where politics is practiced. I don't have the slightest complaint about that. However, it is necessary to tell the public first and foremost, and especially the officers to whom you have so often referred, that today the opposition is trying to manipulate both representatives of the social side and Polish police officers, firefighters into the current intense dispute which you yourselves call a total dispute. So if someone who has served as Deputy Minister of the Interior is today trying to do this political dispute, whose political environment is involved with the government camp, including the police, then this is not, Mr, Minister, the responsible attitude. I often say that a monastery is longer than a Prior. The officers of the Polish Police, the State Fire Department, the Border Guard of Ministers survived many, both from the Civic Platform and earlier, and those who are in this service today will surely survive as many more ministers. So let's set one thing - the dispute is the essence of democracy, even if it is as devastating as the one you propose in the context of total opposition. But come on, police. Leave the Polish police alone. Take care of her, as representatives, as parliamentarians, you have the right to do so, or maybe even have an obligation, but do not try to manipulate her into such an ad hoc dispute. You're announcing an invitation from the social side. Okay, but it's like it's the will of the presidents themselves, whether it's an invitation they'll accept. Let's just get one thing straight. Since you are talking about the dramatic situation today in many areas in the Polish Police and other services, I will quote the leader of the largest union of uniformed services of Mr Jankowski, who said nothing less, nothing more: What happened in the police and other uniformed services is the accident of how these services have been treated over the last 10 years, in recent governments, which is also your government. And now what it looks like in numbers and in reality. I, of course, agree with the President, and I have always stressed that we have long-standing negligence in our services. Those events that took place, dramatic - and here I agree with you - whose escalation was this scale of this protest, have their reasons. It would be very simple to bring this only to the last months or weeks, as you said, of this escalation. Yeah, but these officers protested what state? This was chronologically what it looked like. June 2010 - officers received a letter signed by Prime Minister Donald Tusk in which he assured that no work would be carried out in his government to take away pension rights from those who work in uniform services. Every policeman in our country has received such a letter. Not much, he even had to sign for it. They personally replied to these letters. And the social side, when you're a Member, when you're seeing her, it'll probably remind you of that. And now - wasn't that the election sausage? Yeah, she was. But it is 18 November 2011, the same Prime Minister Donald Tusk who won the election camp wakes up in a completely different reality, after the election reality, and in the exposé from this place announces that there will be no sacred cows in Poland. The honourable Member was kind to say that we have broken the sacred principle, as you said, not to share the services, to raise the wages of all. I will confess to one thing, we have indeed begun to raise them to these services, while the state under this sacred, solidarity principle has cut everyone equally, and that is the difference. We may have started raising salaries as a result of this, and not as a result of other budget opportunities, but as a result of raising, and you cut and lower, that is the difference. Prime Minister Donald Tusk explained in the exposé exactly what the changes in uniformed services would be. These changes consisted in the fact that the retirement age should be set at 55 years, the service period being 25 years. You were talking about dialogue. This dialogue in the issue of ministers of the Civic Platform government, Minister Jack Cichocki, Minister Tomasz Semoniak, because it concerned all uniform services, looked as if the social partners had been invited to the Social Partnership Centre and communicated to them what the government was going to do. There was so much dialogue. There was an announcement. We're cutting. That's what it looked like. Then new rules began to be implemented, i.e. the right to retirement will be acquired by officers and soldiers after two cumulative conditions were met: the age and the internship of the service. The new rules introduced a minimum retirement age of 55 years and extended the minimum service period from 15 to 25. And it was only after 25 years of work and 55 years of age that officers were given the opportunity to retire. The reduction of pension privileges took place on 1 January 2013. Another case, which was very upsetting and loud, is the issue of redundancies, a 100-percent payment for redundancies. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the chronology looked like this. June 1st - Children's Day. [[It's all history.]] History, sir, but there is a need to diagnose the reasons and causes. [[But why don't you say something about what's going on right now?]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, of course, to answer these questions only if I am diagnosing... Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, I don't want to confront... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me. I was asked why, what is the state, also frustration and tension, of the Polish Police. Are you afraid that these words will be addressed? Let's diagnose where this problem came from. [[How many people are on parole?]] I'll get to it, sir. I will also answer that question. You've eliminated the possibility of uniformed services. Now you are talking, asking why the protest is so numerous, I do not deny, uniformed services on the streets of Warsaw. [[How many vacancies are there?]] What were they complaining about? Why do you react so nervously, as I remind you, what did the officers insist on? Who took it from them, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Law and Justice or the Government of the Civic Platform? This numerous protest on the streets of Warsaw was the result of decisions which I remind you of. Ladies and gentlemen, I will move on to our governments, trust me, I will move on to our governments. [[Voice from the room: There were 30,000. People on layoffs.]] Did you take it? Let's make a deal, you took it, that's it, that's it. You took it. [[Voice from the hall: Did you give it back?]] Increases - chronology. On your own initiative, the government has allocated additional resources to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs once, every 8 years of your government once. This increase amounted to PLN 300 and was in July 2012. A year later, you took away your pension privileges because, as Donald Tusk said, there are no sacred cows. So the only increase for uniformed officers for the government of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party amounted, attention, 300 PLN, once. Then, for three years, until autumn 2015, the servants didn't get any gold from you, loved ones, or gold. The increases, which were, were only the result of the modernization bill, which was left to you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the government of Jarosław Kaczyński. Your marshal, let me get to the specifics, because there were also questions about what the government did, because we actually run three years. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, January 2016. [[But your time is up.]] Do you want to hear it? January 2016, officers of subordinate services received 202 PLN, civilians - 154 PLN. January 2017, the salary of officers increased on average by PLN 253, salaries of civil servants - by PLN 250. May 2018, a raise was received by the least earning officers. The amount of PLN 150 million has been allocated for this purpose. May 2018, the capital add-on was raised from PLN 304 to PLN 479. More money was given to police officers who serve in the capital garrison structures. Ladies and gentlemen, attention now, I'm fighting in my chest: not enough. Officers weren't satisfied. The only difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that you cut and we give. Now there was a protest, indeed, the dialogue was being conducted. Ladies and gentlemen, I want a social side and a union for these... The dialogue, you say, was fictional. I've met with uniforms more than ten times. The result of these difficult, difficult conversations was the agreement we signed yesterday. Is it fully satisfying? The social media says no. We know that the officers also believe that this is not sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, I can repeat once again: I would repeal heaven, I am only a responsible politician, I sign such commitments that I know can be fulfilled. This agreement we signed yesterday will be... Don't wave a finger, Member, please. It will be realized, we will raise the payment to Polish policemen. The most important thing is that I leave a political dispute on the side, the most important question you have, Mr President. Are the police prepared to secure the holiday of independence on November 11th? I answer, she's prepared, these celebrations will be safe, we'll secure them. I am Polish policemen who, despite all kinds of frustration and tension, have remained with citizens and care for their safety in recent days, I want to bow down and thank you. Polish police are Polish patriots who care about the safety of citizens. I believe in it deeply, I am convinced - and it is my political responsibility - that this march will be secured. And all your fellow Members present here, please - let us leave for this one day total opposition and meet on one march under the white and red on 11 November, and the Polish police will ensure that you - our families, all citizens who come to this march - are safe. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Not with fascists.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u343	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak and ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u344	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask what is the agreement reached on 8 November with the union party, the one we have all read about. I think this is the most important thing at the moment, how the government has communicated with the union, with the police, and how the current staffing state influences the performance of statutory tasks. I refer here to Mr Wójcik's question, who said that this is uncertain as to how the holiday will be secured. You referred to events such as anniversary or monthly security. I'm surprised you're asking that question because we all know and remember what the situation was like at the time when the Civic Platform ruled. [[Yeah, you guys have a great memory.]] Unfortunately, in Silesia it was not so that without sticks, without smooth-bore weapons, with a short sleeve, under very civilized conditions these months were protected. They were secured just like everyone else. We saw, using rubber bullets and shooting at miners from Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa under the Budryk mine. Everyone saw it. I think that's what Mr President should be asking why the police were being used for this kind of action during the Citizen Platform's rule. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u345	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u346	Minister Brudziński is no longer in the O.R., I understand. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] It is very sad that the Minister is not here because I feel that the Minister has simply moved in time. Minister, it is November 2018 and not November 2015. [[Applause]] Well, you had three years to fulfill your electoral obligations, and you didn't. It was only this police protest that forced you to make any concessions. I am surprised by the Minister, because the Minister repeats this rhetoric, but he has not really dealt with the services before. The Minister deals with uniform services for a few months, he repeats the rhetoric of success that Minister Zieliński speaks of. It is this propaganda of success that has also led to the fact that the officers have so massively appeared and so massively demand their rights. It is known that every government is trying to ensure good financial conditions for police officers and other servants in some way, but the state is simply not fulfilling its own obligations, you have forgotten your obligations 3 years ago. This is the genesis of this problem and trade unions. They reminded you of that. As regards Mr Czartoryski's question, I would like to say - and I am sorry to say this, also for personal reasons, because I live in Silesia - that I know, Mr President, what the security in the Jastrzębie looked like. And I'm not the only one who knows that. Ask General Szymczyk, Chief of Police. This is Chief Szymczyk, who was the commandant of the Silesian garrison right after these events, analyzing the validity of the use of direct coercion measures. These measures were used properly at the time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u347	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, Minister Brudziński only limited himself to the subject of money and the last raise, but this is just a small part of the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, there has never been such a politicisation and humiliation of police officers in history, because that is how it is necessary to judge the sending of officers to unwarranted detention and harassment of people who critically assess the actions of the authorities. The red carpets, the umbrellas, the confetti, and the keys to the vehicles that they have on the numerator run over 10,000. One kilometer, and above all this great purgatory, was never in the police ranks. And this is an unprecedented scale of phenomena. No government has led to such a great imbalance between police and other services' recruitments, which are separated from market conditions, taking into account the responsibility of the officers on a daily basis. Nor will I mention the pay system in the police itself, where work in a small city is paid as well as work in a big city, although we all know and can imagine that the responsibilities vary. I would say that there are huge staff shortages that make these poorly paid officers additionally burdened with work, unpaid overtime. It's all causing it to just snap one day. I must say, this is the real program of the PiS government that led to this dramatic protest of the officers. This disdain program has been implemented, Minister, for three years. Today we need a real reform of wages, recruitments, promotions and all those things that affect the safety of Poles. Today I want police officers, but not only, also all other services, to ensure that the Modern understands these important for the officers and security of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Challenges and that we're willing to meet and work...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u349	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u350	...good solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u351	I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u352	Minister! Police officers transferred to Warsaw under orders receive a refund of the rental costs of apartments, but only for a period of 2 years. It is often the case that they must stay longer because the same order so obliges them, and at that time they no longer have reimbursement of these costs. Those predecessors from the PO-PSL government who are so concerned about the police right now didn't take care to solve this problem. This brings great problems, family and others, in such situations. I have a question: Is the current government, Minister, doing something in this direction to change this situation in order to extend the funding period for renting apartments for those who are required to remain in the capital? And the other thing. What is the government doing to stop the officers from leaving the service? What's the status right now, and how many vacancies are there? I would also like to thank this way genuinely and sincerely Minister Zieliński, Mr Błaszczak for really... [[Bonus.]] ...a tremendous commitment to the functioning of our services, what we experience in the field and what simply has no precedent. So, Minister, thank you very much for all the public aid, for example to the fire department, which is really on an unprecedented scale. Officers are very happy about it, and they appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u353	Thank you. I ask you to ask Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u354	Thank you. I have no reason to thank the Minister. On the contrary, we on the committee are accustomed to the fact that the Minister is ignoring us. But here, unfortunately, this disregard was about officers. And if it weren't for your arrogance, we wouldn't be sitting here today, we would be preparing to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Dear Minister, did you have to bring about such a situation that there were no patrols on the streets, and there were postcards at the precinct to call 112? You don't have to be a psychic to notice that the interest in police services is falling. When in 2013 there were more than 43 thousand people willing to serve in the police force, today it is about 20,000. You have not succeeded in stopping experienced police officers from leaving or increasing recruitment, which is currently around 6,000. Vacations. Those shows you're famous for, they make a big deal out of it, but on the Internet. Service doesn't need laughter on the Internet, this service needs authority. Minister, on the committee, we have asked you repeatedly about the number of officers in L4. Answer today: What is the percentage of officers on L4? You're in the company of your commandant. That's the information we're asking for. And a request for the future. You're starting your fourth year of government. I understand historical politics, but in these services, it seems to me, one should think about the future and that Poles and Poles should be protected and feel safe. Unfortunately, trust in the service is falling. I hope you can stop it. It's falling. If you're doing your stats, I'm very happy for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But unfortunately, there are others who say it's falling. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u355	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Because the Minister has focused mainly on talking about the history of the last 10 years, so I have this question: have we ever dealt with the wave of protest that last week? In the last 10 years, have we dealt with a wave of sick leave in the police force like in the last week? And a few specific questions. I would, of course, like the Minister to extend the answer to Mrs Nemś's question to these issues as well. How many cops are on sick leave today? On the basis of what... On what do you even hope that those who are sick today will return and secure the celebrations of November 11th? After all, when someone's on sick leave, when someone's sick, there's no way they're going back to work. If yesterday, today or the day before yesterday, he's just gonna be sick for the weekend. Another very important issue. I would like this statistics to be given, in particular, with regard to the officers of the Preventive Forces, because if we are talking about November 11th, it is mainly police officers that will secure the celebrations. I'd like to know how many of these officers were necessary to secure the celebration, for example. last year, how many of them are you planning this year, from which the voivodship commands will be taken to Warsaw. I would also like to see the Minister or the chief tell you what the sick scale is at all with regard to the police officers. Is it true that it is often more than 70% ? Does the last mentioned supplement amount to PLN 1000 for the officer who will appear [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it still up to date at work on November 11th? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u357	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Duda, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! The protest of uniformed services, and in particular the police we've been dealing with, is a bad situation. It seems so strange that the Government of the United Right is doing so much to improve the working conditions of these services as much as possible. The programme for the modernisation of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Security Service is being implemented. The removal of PO-PSL posts is restored, equipment is improved, expenditure on the day-to-day operation is increased. [[There's just no one to work with.]] Sure, expectations are bigger, because we always have a situation that we would like more, modern, nicer. And the question is: What action has the Law and Justice Government taken to improve the material conditions and working conditions of civil servants and police officers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u359	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Joachim Brudziński spoke above all about money and raises, but I want to write quite strongly here and emphasize that money is not everything, because police officers also need respect and appreciation for this difficult, hard work, also for the years they have worked in this police force. And why, Minister, is the police morale failing? The police who wrote me an intervention request and described the situation at the Suwałki City Police Command are asking a lot of questions, and I now have the opportunity to address these questions to the Minister. They say they are tired of being despised and treated according to the political needs of Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński. They give examples that the chiefs of departments in this station and their deputies were among others. Staff sergeant with several years of experience or a younger aspirant who's never had a serious case in his life. Why? - They're asking. What is the purpose of the action "Flash" that the entire Polish Police are laughing at? The point is, for half an hour, to set up police cars in visible places and turn on flashlights, and so on several times. change your position every day. Why and for what reason has one of the police patrols in Suwałki been guarding the premises of Mr Jarosław Zieliński around the clock for nearly 3 years? [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Why local policemen dress up in suits, wear glasses and pretend to be the State Protection Service during the ceremony in which the Deputy Minister takes part [[♪ The bell ♪]] Zieliński? [[Shame!]] What kind of work do you do...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u361	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u362	...who's been hired at the police station and doesn't come to work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u363	I would ask you to ask Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club. There's no envoy. In that case, I ask you to ask Mark Pole, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u364	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to the CBOS survey, in Poland almost 9 out of 10 adult Poles feel safe, and we all know that it is thanks to the efficient operation of uniformed services, especially the police, which each day undertake this difficult task to safeguard our security, order and public order. But in order to carry out these difficult and responsible tasks, you also need motivation, and unfortunately we know that many years of neglect of previous governments, among others. in terms of wages, they did not give officers full satisfaction with their tasks, as they expressed yesterday in their protest. But today, as we know, we have a completely different reality. Therefore, I will no longer ask any questions in my speech, I just want to thank the representatives of the government from this place, as well as the trade unionists for the compromise that was reached yesterday by the social side as a milestone for both sides of the dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u365	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mrs Isabella Leszczyn. There isn't. In that case, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! The results of cyclical evaluations of public institutions conducted by the Centre for Social Opinion Research indicate that police ratings are very high against other evaluated institutions. The results of the latest edition of the study indicate that 75% The surveyed evaluates its activities well. According to the September 2018 survey, among 22 public institutions evaluated socially, the police were assessed at the highest level and achieved a score of 74%. good grades. Police are judged higher than local governments or television, and more than twice as much as judicial institutions. Minister! Is society wrong? Is this trust a good forecast in terms of ensuring good security of the country? And thanks. Thank you very much, Chief, Minister, for the actions of the police in our country. Thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u367	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Minister Zieliński spoke to the camera a few days ago with such an ironic smile that he doesn't know why police officers suddenly became so sick. Maybe it's the fall aura. Minister! I am from Łódź, where the determination of protesting police officers was the greatest. A few days ago, they wrote a letter explaining in eight points why they protested, why they took such measures. I'm just going to quote one of those points that they're calling a constitution. They start with the rota text. The policeman swore: I, a citizen of the Republic of Poland, aware of the policeman's duties, vow to serve the nation faithfully, protect the legal order established by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, protect the security of the state and its citizens, even at risk of life. And the police continue to write: It is a miracle that such acts of Law and Justice have not yet resulted in mass termination of obedience, while our strike via L4 may look a little bit like such termination of obedience. Why the government put $100,000 at risk. Cops for that kind of stress? On the dilemma, what will we do when the opposition or the rulers reach for violence? Why did the rulers take such a risk? The police have opinions, too, and just like the Poles, we are very divided. Breaking the Constitution is a first-born sin towards the Polish Police, which, despite its weaknesses, has been working for 30 years to throw away the militia ballast. However, we must thank God and the reasonableness of our superiors for not spilling blood on anti-government demonstrations. It's hard to tell what would have happened and how many of us would have come out of one or another. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the political side of the barricade. Minister, you still don't know why the cops were protesting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u369	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Anna April. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Margaret Navel. There isn't any either. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] The Member is, I'm sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u370	I'm here, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The protests of police officers that have been going on for four months are one thing. It's a good thing there's an agreement at the moment. Another, also very serious and urgent issue is the growing number of vacancies in the service. At the moment, we are already more than 6,000 short. Officers. There was no such situation in the police ranks. I don't think so. The reasons can be guessed: poor financial conditions, accompanying the policeman's work stress, life and health threats, very weak social security, lack of legal protection for officers. It could be further calculated. So I wanted to ask: What incentives will be put in place in the near future so that there are more people willing to work in the police force? I would also ask the Minister to present the calculations on the basis of which officers are to receive increases next year. Because we hear about different amounts. What are the real increases for the officers and what are they going to be for the civilian police? How much more do they get? What's it going to be? Tell me exactly what's going on. Recently, sick leave has been largely presented not only in large garrisons, but also in small municipal or district commands. For example, in the Żywietski district, nearly half of the officers are presently on sick leave, and in the whole Silesian garrison yesterday it was up to 45%. I wanted to ask: Does the Ministry have current data on how long these exemptions have been issued? After 11 November, will most sick policemen return? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to work...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u371	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u372	Or are these long-term exemptions? This is no longer about security in the course of independence events...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u373	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u374	...but for the safety of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u375	Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! General! I wanted to ask you about the training system, basically the training program. My question is to you, General Szymczyk. Well, I wanted to ask, to what extent and at what time and on the basis of which source materials the training and education programme is being shaped, which should be adapted, I believe, to the changing threats to the security of the state and citizens. Are and what source research and analysis are carried out on their own and which are outsourced outside the Ministry of Interior and Administration system? What's the training staff like? What functions is he trained for? How and where is this staff trained? This problem is becoming extremely important. In view of these issues, which have been presented here, where it is said that there are fewer and fewer police reports - it is true, there is less because in Poland the demographic situation changes very seriously, so in relation to this demographic situation it can be said that these reports are completely sufficient. That's my first question. My second question concerns the activity of local authorities to improve the working conditions of the police, in particular I am thinking about helping local governments, e.g. Local government of Warsaw, police officers who come here from other towns - these are not Warsaw residents - in obtaining apartments, in creating accommodation conditions for these residents, especially since Warsaw like any other city in Poland has very many mixed premises, which can be with little effort and with great certainty [[♪ The bell ♪]] adapted to the needs of the police.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u377	Thank you, Member. The question is now asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u378	High Izbo! Minister! First question: Do you know the United States Embassy's message on the website addressed to American citizens living and staying in Warsaw? The American Embassy addresses its citizens this way: 11 November 2018 avoid the march route, avoid crowds, avoid demonstrations, do not attract attention, follow current information in local media. Quote: In 2017 The Independence March Association organized a march whose participants carried banners, threw races and chanted slogans aimed at racial, sexual and religious minorities. Minister Zieliński! Have you scheduled an audience with Ambassador Mosbacher? Should this communication, which Mrs Mosbacher posted on the website of the American Embassy, also be addressed to all Polish citizens? Do you take responsibility for the words - just like Minister Brudziński - when you say everything is okay? But we do. What do we see? Order of the President of the Council of Ministers of 8 November on the use of military police soldiers to assist the police. And what does it say in this management of the Prime Minister? - Due to the anticipated threat of security and public order in the capital city of Warsaw... Dear Minister, I appeal to you to come here and this message from the American embassy will read. Let all Warsawers know: you are not prepared [[♪ The bell ♪]] To... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... November 11th.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u379	The question is now asked by Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice. There isn't. Then please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u380	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Chief! The fact that we are talking about an agreement on increases, staff shortages and other matters related to pension insurance, we know, but I do not know if you read the letter that the Łódź policemen signed, and the Łódź voivodeship was one of the highest where the L4, protest L4 was one of the highest. Cops in their open letter, which has been published by the media, talk about other things that affect the quality of their work, discourage this work, and actually say so: one must survive, one more year, one must survive somehow. They talk about very serious things, they say: we want reform, we demand change, but those that are geared towards police professionalism. They say this: the statistics are in force in the police, and we know there's a lie, a big lie, statistics, and police statistics. And everything is subordinated to this statistics, and the basic objective of the actions they call: stupidity is: do not expose yourself and please the mountain, including in statistics, survive. There's nepotism and other vileness in the police. That's a quote. from this police letter, because it is good to have an uncle who will lead, who will give a warm job, which is for his own, because they are equal and equally, and actually in every police station there can be a department of various matters and no one unnecessary for theirs, for those who are under the care of their uncles. There is inequality at work, there are big differences in reward, there is unpredictability of promotion, there is a broken constitution, there are violations of police laws, but in general what is, there is ignorance that is promoted. They're worried. I ask you, Minister Zieliński: [[♪ The bell ♪]] When are you gonna change that? Because I no longer believe that President Kaczyński or the Prime Minister will call you off. So why don't you... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u381	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Lech Kołakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you two questions. What programmes, projects, actions have the Law and Justice Government implemented to improve citizens' security? And two: How many officers are currently on sick leave? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u383	Thank you. I ask you to ask Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u384	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that Minister Brudziński is not here, but I will ask Minister Zieliński a question. Minister Brudziński said: you cut, we give. Dear ministers, you have not come to power with a sack of your own indeterminate money. [[Applause]] If it wasn't for the good economics, you guys could have given it to each other. Anyway, what's the term "we"? This is the total arrogance with which we have been meeting since the beginning of this term of office, also at the meetings of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the total arrogance which has led to the fact that you have given citizens such chaos and such a risk in terms of security that was not after 1990. And for any negative effects, if they happen, hopefully they will not happen, during the next Christmas you will be absolutely responsible, ministers. I'm sure it wasn't the police, 'cause the police could've talked to you before. This protest took a long time and could have been taken seriously from the beginning, not in advance and not with such arrogance. The objective assessments on the state of security risk, which are based on the order of the President of the Council of Ministers mentioned here, as well as on the messages of the American embassy and the Canadian embassy, were cited here. And I remember talking about the Independence March last year. It was said that it was a family picnic, a family holiday, and incidents were a margin of margins. If you took it seriously then, today, on the eve of Christmas, three days before, where you are desperately trying to secure anything, there would not be such a sense of danger. What do you say to the Poles? They're supposed to go to the march on Sunday? They're supposed to go out in Warsaw calmly and safely or they're supposed to listen to embassies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And these are objective, external observers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u385	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the question of Alexander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! Yesterday there was an agreement between trade unions, police officers, uniformed services and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. A long-term protest is over. The agreement will probably get the cops back to work. That's very good news. What was the attitude of the Ministry of Interior and Administration towards trade unions? What was the call schedule? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u387	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Ajchler's question. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u388	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Praga ask: Is it true that on 2 November there was a briefing at the headquarters of the Provincial Police Headquarters in Krakow, in which the topic of permanent allowances in amounts from 600 PLN for the Provincial Police Commissioner, from 400 PLN for the Police Commissioner or 350 PLN for the District Police Commissioner who will receive these allowances in case of control of the L4 redundancies? Is it true that those who are in police school in Sieradz at the basic course have cancelled all leave scheduled for the first weekend of November and have these students been suggested that the L4 redundancies will be unwelcome because before them the exam, which will take place only on 16 November? Is it true that these students were sent to wager shares of Znicz in Łódź and voivodship at the cemeteries of Mania, Doły, Łask, Zduńska Wola and others? And is it true that these students were allowed to walk for two or three people without an experienced police officer? And is it true that they were walking around with sharp guns and ammo and without communication, and they only got a phone number for the duty officer to call from private numbers? Is it true that the commanders made calls to sick police officers and tried to intimidate them and force them - sometimes by blackmail - to return from L4? Attention, attention! Is it true that the 10th of November will be an alarm? For what reason? For 3 years, you've been telling the cops it's okay, you've been saying, "Hold the line." But what about that line? It's broken. Because is it true that over 30,000. Officers on L4? How many police stations are closed all over Poland? How many in the Łódź Voivodship? And last but not least, remind me, do I remember correctly that the police budget is about 8 billion more. I regret that the PiS government can afford to lose 6 billion for the economy and not afford to provide policemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] exchange cars, equipment and many other things. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u389	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On Sunday, the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence will take place. It's a special anniversary. It's a holiday that should have a special setting. A frame that doesn't exist. Minister Brudziński just invited us all to march. He invited and walked out of this debate. And I wanted to ask Minister Brudziński, to whom the Minister invited us. [[Applause]] On the march that President Duda invited to attend, encouraging Poles and Poles to celebrate together with nationalist organizations that they carried last year. On the banners of fascist and racist slogans? Besides, you're still chasing these people today, but somehow, Minister, you can't catch them. It is this nationalist organization, I will remind you, by law and decision of the voivode you gave away, you donated the cyclical organization of the march on 11 November. I ask this question not without a kozera, because it is today that the government negotiates a common march with these organizations. In the last three years fascist symbols infect public space and have - I have always said this, Minister - permission from you. And your permission is your shared responsibility. Or is Minister Brudziński inviting you to the second march? The march that Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister have been inviting together since yesterday, three days before the event. Or will there be two marches in Warsaw that will overlap? Because today, now, at this hour, we don't know that yet. What exactly will happen, Minister, November 11th in Warsaw? It's November 11th in a few hours. Who will protect these marches - either one march or two marches? Police? I mean, at least a third of the state of the police force today and yesterday she was on L4 and I don't think they're gonna be coming back from this L4 so soon. What Warsaw residents - participants of a march or two marches - and police officers may expect on 11 November in Warsaw, since the services of the voivodeship direct a letter to hospitals and emergency rooms, informing about a high probability of a security threat [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they're looking for free beds? What are we supposed to expect on November 11th? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u391	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How is it that the participants of last year's march of freedom have not been prosecuted and their images have not been made public in the same way as the images of people manifesting at the Sejm? After all, their personalities are known to you. It can be explained by the politicization of the police. Because is it true that the commanders of the voivodship must obtain the approval of the Ministry for the cast of every commander - from district to district? I'll give you an example from history. In Radom, you can hear the story of a state policeman who, before the war, when he saw a thug, took out a gun and shot him. He was awarded with applause by a crowd of Radom residents because the state policeman had the highest authority, the uniform was worthy. Are you able to restore this dignity and the honor of a Polish policeman? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u393	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Your boss is no longer here, which is why I will be directing my comments to Minister Zieliński. More attention than questions. Because you're co-responsible, and perhaps the most responsible for the most serious police crisis after 1989. The fact that the crisis is a fact, we learn about it every day from the news of various television stations, and we read about it in the press. But we also learn from the police correspondence. That is the question that Mrs German just asked you, whether there is a planned alarm, whether there are pre-prepared places in Legionów - 800 places - where the students carry their belongings to the basement, to prepare a place for the accommodation of those who will be taken to Legionov as a result of the alarm... I could mention in which cities what part of the state is not working right now and will not be serving in the near future. And the basic question is, do you feel responsible? Is this a celebration, this big celebration, on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, the police will fulfill their role? It doesn't seem that way, because even the president is leading the troops. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the street. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u395	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u396	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Brudziński left, apparently didn't want to, or perhaps couldn't, but rather didn't want to participate in this discussion, an important discussion. He just said his propaganda slogans about what it was like. bad for the previous governments, as it is good for the current governments. Earlier, when answering questions in the current cases, he was surprised that it was so bad before, and the police did not protest in such a harsh way, and now it is so good and protested. Minister Brudziński obviously doesn't understand anything. After all, if you use uniforms, police to protect party parties to protect people like Joachim Brudziński, who, as a sideman of Kaczyński Jarosław, shouted to people: Communists and thieves, it simply means that you do not understand anything. He didn't understand anything, he just kept going on with his propaganda of success. Police officers, as I have just read in the media, are given official declarations to sign, which contain statements that they are fit to serve and consciously resign from further dismissal and continued absence during the illness. They get it by post. Cops are storming because it's risking both themselves and the doctors who issued these certificates on the ground that they're simply unjustified dismissals. That's breaking the rules. So, Minister, tell Minister Brudziński it's time to take responsibility for your actions after 3 years, not just to hide for your actions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which He's judging...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u397	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u398	...negative, previous governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u399	That's what we've done with the questioning formula. Mr Mark Wójcik, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There was a lot of history in Minister Brudziński's speech, but there was no information on how to secure the holiday of independence. That was also our very important question. Well, Minister, it's Friday hours. 17, the holiday of independence will be on Sunday, just in a few dozen hours. Please indicate who is responsible for securing the events related to the celebration of independence. Yesterday we were informed that the State Security Service or the military would be responsible for this. Who's responsible today? There are a few dozen hours until these events. At this time of day, we should know how many officers will arrive, if this is to be the police, to Warsaw, from which garrisons, what forces will be needed. The problem is that only 5,000 officers were missing from Silesia this morning. You didn't calm us down, you didn't tell us how many policemen until the hour. 17 returned from L4 because many of them had L4 by 12 November. Therefore, we, unfortunately, still do not know much as of today after this debate. I have the impression from the Minister's statement that, unfortunately, this protest of the state has taught nothing at all that you continue to go into such propaganda of success, as Minister Zieliński has done in the previous three years. Minister, you are right, Professor Hrynkiewicz, who said that the situation on the market has changed, that this requires radical action. It's not just a question of trying to keep up with raising police wages, but it's a question of different kinds of changes in the police recruitment system, training, treatment of police officers. Minister, tell us this if you are talking about the situation in the police force and what action you have taken. There was no information in the Minister's statement about the actions that were taken during this crisis, because the only information we have today is that you offered 1000 zł to these officers who would come to Warsaw on 11 November. Where are the field officers? After these declarations, Minister, you know that, because you have an insight into the system, there are officers on L4. Why? Because it was known that you led to the division of officers into those who would come to Warsaw and get paid for it, and those who would stay in Katowice, Gliwice, Gdansk, Krakow and would not receive such remuneration because they would not participate in this security. It was a mistake at the time. On the other hand, the only information that has come to the public about your actions in the face of the crisis is the information about this 1000 PLN, actually for saving your stools, for the celebrations to take place in Warsaw, not about actions that would calm this crisis, because this action did not calm the crisis, Minister. It was a mistake at the time. Unfortunately, these divisions in the service are. The dilemma is also how you want to solve the problem that arose in your service. Thirty-seven thousand officers went to L4, in general officers participated in various forms of protest, but some participated, some did not participate. Now the most important thing is that they be one again after this multi-month protest. Because of this multi-month protest and the lack of government action they have been divided. Minister, I appeal to you not to draw any consequences against the people who were leaders of the protest, often in the departments somewhere in the district headquarters, because if there is such a drawing of consequences against these people, then this unity in the Polish Police will be destroyed forever. And unfortunately, Minister Brudziński didn't talk about that either. This time directly to Minister Zieliński. Minister, for three years, you've been proud to tell us about the precincts being opened. We saw a picture of these closed stations with signs: there is no one. We were informed that only two patrols were driving on Wednesdays in the streets of Warsaw. There was a town where there were no police patrols at all. In the fire department, the situation didn't look funny either, since even a heynalist had to be drawn to the battle division. Minister, do you really think you're still in a position to be the superintendent of uniform services? That after that disaster in the police force, you still have the right to be a minister? Have you even considered resigning as Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration? I know it's not a question for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe it should be for your boss, but he's not here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u401	Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Security is a very serious matter and this value should not be played. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Nor must she be involved in political disputes, as Minister Brudziński has already said in his speech. [[Don't be ridiculous. You can't be serious.]] Many of your speeches are precisely engaging this issue in a political fight. And what's worse, I have to say that I am very anxious to listen to some of the statements, reading such a tone in them: you think that in this sphere they are worse, because there is indeed a difficult period that I hope we have behind us, the better politically for you. You're looking for political capital in this. Don't do this. Don't do this. [[Don't lecture us.]] Don't anybody ever do that, 'cause it's really a very dangerous road. Security needs all of us, our families, all citizens, and we should do everything we can to ensure security in Poland. For three years, ladies and gentlemen, it is security we provide. You're asking about our political responsibility, our government responsibility, our personal responsibility. We carry it fully. It's safe in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, it is safe in Poland, which not only results from research, confirms this feeling of security of Poles. Studies show that more than 80% considers Poland to be a safe country. This is also how Poland perceives from the outside. This is how people from abroad view Poland from all over the world. For example, during the huge event, which was the World Youth Day, Polish police and other services were thanked, and this was done by Poles and visitors from all over the world, from over 190 countries around the world. It's a huge success. [[We're talking about November 11th. About.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the other great events in Poland that we have happily followed were safe. I hope that all the others will be safe as well. There's a COP24 approaching. We're preparing everything we need to make sure it's safe. The marches of independence, when you were in charge, the coalition of PO and PSL, ended in fights, ended in smoking booths under the Russian embassy, ended in provocations. Police were involved in these provocations, which was the most dramatic, most tragic. For 3 years, when we are responsible for the Polish state and for its security, there is no such thing and I hope it will never be. [[But the nationalists go freely in Warsaw.]] I hope that there will also be no risks, and if they will, we are able to counter them. The day after tomorrow, on this special day that we live once in our generation and once in history - the 100th anniversary of regaining independence will not happen again - let us all be responsible. We do what we have to do and what we can do under these conditions, what they are, so it's safe. If you are asking if we will ensure security, I would like to say that the Polish Police, because they are mainly responsible for security, and other services in their field will do everything to keep this day safe and to keep the next days safe. But if we're talking about this moment, November 11th, it's important that we celebrate this great moment in our history after 123 years of regaining independence. I would very much ask you not to use the Members, it doesn't fit, it doesn't have to be fake news. What are you saying about an alarm? Don't scare the Poles. Don't scare the Poles by drawing any words. Somewhere someone could have written, of course, in the world anyway. Do you confirm with such an honest, civic impression that it is as in those sentences you quoted? I hope not. Poland does not look like this and the Polish Police do not look as bad as you think. You're looking for allies among policemen, and you're misjudged by the Polish Police. She really works well, works really well. It's the trust that... That sense of security I've told you about is reinforced by trust in the police. It is the highest at the moment, of course we are talking about this trust, which was examined before the last crisis situation, now I do not know. It was the greatest trust, even greater than after World Youth Day. 74% Trust, good police evaluation. Is that a low indicator? Very tall. And the police don't easily gain that kind of trust, because it's a law-abiding, order-abiding, law-abiding form, and so it's also repressive when it needs to be. And she's earned such a great deal of trust. Did it just come out of the blue? Ladies and gentlemen, crime in all categories has been falling in the last three years. There's data, I won't be able to summon them, we'll put them in writing. For all the questions, anyway... [[Police statistics. The cops are talking about it.]] ...to which I will not answer, because there is no such possibility today, we will give very precise written answers so that as many Poles as possible can get acquainted with them. We have nothing to be ashamed of, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary. Ladies and gentlemen, social programs have been asked about this. They asked about social programs. [[Voice from the hall: How many police stations are closed?]] Do you think you're gonna knock me out, throw me off balance? You're not gonna kill me. You're not gonna kill me. You're not gonna kill me. You too. [[We want answers to the questions we've asked.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have asked a number of different questions, substantive and political, meaningful and senseless. [[And you don't answer any.]] Don't worry, it'll all go away in questions. In my answers, however, I try to be reticent when it comes to grades, because we would probably have to fight hard. Ladies and gentlemen, leave your picks alone. It's not working anymore. After all, the police really have something to boast of when it comes to everyday contacts with society. We say it, I keep saying it: police close to people and for people. That's what he's becoming, and that's more and more like it. I'm grateful to the police for that. Not just the neighborhood guy who's supposed to be closer to us, but everybody. You're talking about statistics. Never in our governments, I assure you, I will prove it by means of various indicators, we did not focus on indicators. You guys were betting on them. I remember you were supposed to raise your income to the budget with the police. There were standards in your day. It's not ours, and it never will be. When instruction is needed, it is instruction. The policeman decides that. And when you need a ticket, it's a ticket. The policeman decides that. Not a politician, not even the chief general. A cop on the scene who's doing his job. National Security Threat Map - what a beautiful tool. Europe is a little jealous of this tool. They have good solutions, too, but we have better solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, 900,000. There's gonna be 1 million coming up soon. Poles use this tool. They share their information about threats with the police. It makes it safer. I said crime is falling, and detection is increasing. And that's what safety comes from. I'm gonna go back to the big events. Were there any serious threats resulting from bad police work or other services? Is Poland in this respect Isn't he a good example for others? It is, we're happy about it, we're very happy for you. Let's keep it going. And now, ladies and gentlemen, today's situation. You're asking how many cops are on L4. This is variable data, the situation is dynamic. [[Voice from the room: But how many are there now?]] The scale is large, but I hope it will decrease after signing an agreement with the trade unions, which I thank very much for the very responsible attitude. We talked a long time, not just yesterday. We've talked long, many times. We've come to an agreement. Important decisions will therefore be implemented. I think the officers were waiting for them. [[But it's specific.]] Although I'm going to tell you briefly what decisions you're going to make. Increase from 1 January - 655 PLN gross per job. [[We know, Minister. That's not what we asked.]] From 2020 - 500 PLN per job. Full-time overtime - there has never been such a change in the system - for all officers, i.e. Police officers, firefighters, border guards, state security officers. Ladies and gentlemen! We have proposed increases earlier, more than that is apparent from the Modernization Act, because it shows that the increase from 1 January is 309 PLN per job. Previously, in the draft agreements submitted, we proposed an additional PLN 253 from July. Now more favourable terms have been negotiated. Let it be good for police security work. Everyone does, of course, all MMA services, not just cops, so that they are clear, very important security tasks and must be well rewarded, well rewarded. Those increases that are foreseen in the modernisation programme, and the previous ones they were used to pay better, to appreciate the officers that weren't in your day, and now it's going to be increased. [[You haven't done anything in three years.]] I hope that this will bring, firstly, a return to active service, and secondly, that we will rebuild what has happened recently in connection with the ethos, which we have been working very hard on for three years. This ethos of service brought great social respect to policemen. [[Voice from the hall: In the month.]] I hope nothing and no one's gonna squander it. We're gonna do everything we can to make it happen. [[At least answer one question.]] I'm asking for your support because political options are changing with power, and we need security for all of us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Lucky for you.]] And now, finally, ladies and gentlemen, if your marshal would allow me to extend a little longer, I would like to make two more points. I repeat that we will answer other questions in writing very willingly and precisely. [[We want tonight.]] You asked about the personnel situation. There were times when there were 10 candidates and more in one place in the police force, when there was unemployment, when the economy wasn't developing the way it is today. You guys kept your vacations during your reign on purpose. In the Law and Justice programme, my entire Party of Law and Justice talked about how when we win the election, we're gonna try to make sure there are no artificial vacancies. [[So what?]] We did everything we could to make it happen. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the data. For example, in 2012, you had 6084 vacancies and a staff limit of 102 309. And you took $3,000 before that. You gave up 2100 jobs. We just got that $1,000 back. Posts since 2017 Over 6,000. Vacations, ladies and gentlemen, i.e. 5,95%. Back then they were willing to work at the police station, then there were a lot of people willing. You didn't accept them. Other numbers. For example, in 2011 there were almost 5 000. Vacations, exactly 4943, i.e. 4.83%. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, when we did everything possible to reduce these vacancies to zero, we achieved the best historical indicator: 2,3%, 2371 vacancies. The lowest number of vacancies in 10 years or more. Then we increased the limit by $1,000. Jobs and percentages looked different. This automatically led to an increase of about 1%. with regard to this conversion in relation to the fixed-term ceiling. Of course, there are other difficulties that arise from the development of the market. Today, an average of five are already applied to one place in the police force. That's when 10 came in and you didn't accept them. Come in, five, we're in. We're doing everything we can to fill our vacations. This year we accepted almost 3,000. People, 2955. The recruitment process is still ongoing and further groups will be adopted by the end of the year. We will sum up the vacancies at the end of 2018. I don't think the situation is going to be particularly tragic, although there is, of course, a problem. We're creating a whole bunch of incentives for the police, first of all, to stay longer. Hence this yesterday's proposal to trade unions, regarding the allowance for those in service over the age of 25. That's what we'll be working on. This, for example, is what we have implemented since May this year for the lowest-paid groups of policemen and other officers. For the police staff, the allowance has been increased, which has not been increased for many years for your governments, etc., etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, since there's no time left, I'm gonna bring up the last thread. It's about responsibility. You're asking about my approach to this case because I'm responsible for overseeing uniforms. Yes, I take full responsibility in terms of the competences that I have been entrusted with. Ladies and gentlemen, I was responsible, for example. for coordinating the activities of the services in order to secure those large projects that locals had in Poland. I'm proud that all the servants have stood up to the task. There's a part of my contribution to this, too. I'm very proud of it. These indicators are, of course, the work of police officers, mainly thanks to them, but also the commanding of all levels and a little supervision, initiating certain processes that take place. It's about giving directions to the police. I have nothing to be ashamed of here, ladies and gentlemen. Absolutely nothing to be ashamed of. [[The voice from the hall: Isn't that the card for... the protest?]] But all the foolishness you call back, of course, is for propaganda purposes. Yeah, I get it. You probably have to. But I think you should take it a little more seriously by now. [[Why did they protest?]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, neither I nor any of us are welded to the post, to the stool. Just like all my colleagues in the government, I've been working hard in this position for three years. I work with a sense of responsibility, I work honestly, and I think with good results. [[Retirement is needed.]] I leave my grades to my superiors and voters. After all, I am also an MEP, so I leave my grades to my superiors and voters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u403	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 71st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. I now ask the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Polish people and Poles! Your countrymen! It has happened to our generation of contemporary Poles a special thing. Here, as part of our biography, we have come to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. You used to say under these circumstances, "May you live in interesting times." And that's what happens to us. Rejoicing the fact that for so many years Poland is once again in a family of countries enjoying their independence and independence, and it is worth to reflect on the quality of love for their homeland. It's not about everyone else. Let us address this question to ourselves or to ourselves. What are you Do you, Polka, Pole, give your homeland emotions? Find it in yourself, name it, and in a situation where it is desirable, work on it. To put it simply, make it more refined. Because it is worth it, because Poland deserves your respect, given the heritage of our ancestors, antennas close to us and generalized. We remain in the shadow of their insurgent raids, painful fights to the blood of the last, dark, cold nights in the tents and pits of various prisons, tears shed after the loss of husbands, sons, mothers. But there was always a rainbow of hope over them, that Poland would rise up, that it would be reborn. And this was thanks to their heroic deeds, the diligence of the builders constantly again, who, having broken ties and chains of bondage, gave Poland new beauty. As long as they, those who have gone away, can speak with satisfaction and pride in heaven today: we have not died, but we, today, must constantly ask ourselves: How can we make it beautiful? How to make it not only the fact of being born on this land between Oder and Bug, between the Baltic and the Tatras, my trademark? So there are two basic questions: Are you proud, proud of Poland? Do you have any convincing arguments to claim that this is your home, your homeland, your mother? I trust that yes, even if in everyday disputes, it is difficult to find the balance of political shit. But there is a second question, it seems that it is not often directed by us to ourselves: A Poland, bro? Is she proud of you? Do you do all things as her son, daughter, which would be in favor of calling you the unborn son of your homeland? Do you do the best you can when you offer many things every day? Are you not only honest with the law, but cordial with other people? Does the role you play: teacher, priest, envoy, councilman, railwayman, miner, student set a high standard of integrity and professionalism, and just commitment? What kind of Pole are you? Summer? Eunuch? Loose and alienated on earth to a mother or rather juicy in love with her and hardworking to the max? Let us live so that the next generations of Poles can say about us: they have served the cause of the country well. I love Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u405	I now ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u406	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, through the campaign, our attention has been focused on local communities and their political preferences. Today, in the period immediately preceding the date of 11 November, from which we count 100 years from regaining independence, I want to say about local and patriotic Poland. It is not as divided as political Poland, expresses respect for our tradition and history, builds faith in the unity of the nation in spite of various adversities. Polish self-government is also a country of organizations, regional associations, local cultural institutions and, above all, inhabitants, for whom local history and national history exist in the closest relationship. Referring to the words of the hangman - the internal fire of Polishness neither 100, nor more years will cold in the district Poland. During 2018 events related to the celebration of the anniversary of the century of regaining independence by Poland take place on the land of the archivist region and the entire Lublin region. They are often linked to the 100th anniversary of the establishment of institutions and organisations for an independent state of extremely important importance. They are always of a high nature, carry a patriotic message and contain a strong educational value. The edifice of the uprising was celebrated, among others. in primary schools in Celiny and Kalina in Lublin, also in the 1st High School in Lukow. The anniversaries were celebrated in voluntary firefighters in Adamów, Szaniawy-Matys, Nurzyna and Szczygły Górnych. The Jubilee was commemorated by a permanent sign of memory in the form of tablets in Eagle Murowa, Gołaszyn, Suleja, Aleksandrów and the Office of the Municipality of Luków. There have been events about great cognitive qualities, such as the conference "Roads to Freedom" organized by the Historical Rifles Association in Łukow, or the joint initiative of the Regional Museum in Łukow and the First High School of General Education. Tadeusz Kościuszko in Łukow exhibition devoted to the century of this school's existence. In the context of the anniversary of regaining independence there was a celebration of the anniversary of the diocese, Trzebieszów, Radzynia Podlaskie or Kąkolewnica. A lot's happened. I've only mentioned some of the initiatives I know. The jubilee year is nearing its climax. At that time, local environments are planning their own anniversary events. Let us be active in this area of public life. Let us respect this sphere because it is the rock on which we build Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u407	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I expect the Members of the Law and Justice of Bielsko-Biała to explain why they voted in favour of a law that discriminates against the people of Bielsko-Biała and, moreover, why they voted against the amendments that eliminated this discrimination. Today, a law has been passed that allows 100% financing of thermomodernisation for the poorest. This will be financed 70% from the central budget and 30% from municipal funds. I don't have to tell you how important clean air is to our health. However, thermomodernisation results in improved air quality as it converts furnaces into greener and warmer buildings, which in turn reduces energy consumption. As we know, the poorest people cannot afford to carry out thermomodernization with their own resources. Usually such people also use the cheapest heat sources, which very often means the largest air pollution. We all have this black, biting, greasy smoke from the chimneys in front of our eyes. Unfortunately, the poorest inhabitants of Bielska-Biała will not be able to benefit from this form of aid, because PiS limited this possibility only to the inhabitants of the village under 100,000. inhabitants, thus discrimination against the inhabitants of larger towns, including discrimination against the inhabitants of Bielska-Biała. We have prepared an amendment to the bill, which has eliminated this obvious discrimination against the Bialyscans. Unfortunately, the Members of Law and Justice, also from Bielsko-Biała, did not support it, resulting in the fact that residents in some areas, including in Bielsko-Biała, in some places, will continue to breathe dust. I therefore expect that the Members of the PIS from Bielsko-Biała will be able to explain to the Belarusians about this discrimination and, moreover, I also expect the PIS from Bielsko-Biała to take corrective action which will end with this discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u409	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr John Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! People of Pomerania! Old-fashioned! It has been 100 years since Poland's independence was declared. One of the prime ministers, Jędrzej Moraczewski, describes the mood then prevailing: It is not like giving away this intoxication, this madness of joy which the Polish people have grasped at this moment. After more than 120 years, the cordons broke. There aren't any! Freedom! Independence! Unification! Your own country! Forever! Chaos? It's okay. It's gonna be okay. Everything's gonna be fine because we're free from leeches, thieves, robbers, and a doughnut hat. We're gonna rule ourselves! Four generations waited in vain for this moment, the fifth - it waited. On the occasion of this extraordinary holiday I address you, dear Pomerania residents, from this sitting room of the Polish Sejm, the old-garde land. This desired freedom was empathized throughout Poland, also with us, in my home town, although a little later, in 1920. When Józef Haller came to Starogard as part of the embrace of Pomerania in possession of the Republic of Poland, he was accepted as a king. His old-garden ride was carried on his shoulders and to City Hall. The localizations of the old-garden men dressed their houses with flowers, white and red flags, and placed thanksgiving inscriptions, e.g. Long live the Polish soldier. At the sight of the Polish army, they shouted out from their hearts!! and they sang loudly to Maria Konopnicka. Can we imagine these emotions today, the omnipresent noise, the joy? It's not easy for us to tell this story with blood and tears of many generations. But it's a beautiful story, a history of a nation tied to God and its land. Etos - present everywhere, almost every piece of Polish land. Presented in painting, literature, music. This Polish land gave birth to a man who changed the face of Europe. And then, when he came to Poland, the Polish Pope, there were crowds of people to meet him, just like in 1918 and 1921 on the streets and roads of our homeland, who in other circumstances, in other captives saw the new face of Poland, which is a multimillion-dollar community of people in whose hearts are goodness, love of truth, freedom and humanity. We as Poles, as sons of this land, feel pride. We have an innate and innate national survival gene. And while sometimes we argue, we debate louder, the spirit of the nation continues and will continue. In the 100th anniversary of the Independent, let the disputes and strife settle. Let us bow with humility our heads before Poland, the brightest Republic. We serve her with our talents, and we have many, as demonstrated by national and global achievements. Let the same enthusiasm, which accompanied the builders of the Second Republic, engulf the whole of Poland with a white and red band and embrace Poles scattered around the world again in all of us. I will end my speech with the words of the religious anthem of Poland, God, something in Poland: Return to our Poland the greatness of ancient times, fertilize the fields, devastated hinds, may happiness, peace blossom again, stop punishing us, God angry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] God bless Poland and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u411	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year's 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence leads us to a deeper reflection on the history of our homeland. This beautiful anniversary provides an opportunity to commemorate and commemorate all those who contributed to the restoration of Poland to the map of Europe, all those who fought for Poland's freedom armedly in uprisings, during world wars and until October 1963, i.e. to the death of Józef Franczak, the last soldier of the Polish anti-communist underground and independence. But it is also our duty to remember all the patriots who, after the end of World War II, often risking their own health and life, preached the truth about our history. No doubt, such persons were sleepers. Fr. Ignacy Piwowarski, who died in his home in the village of Bucze k. Brest year ago 1 November, on a special day, on the celebration of All Saints, when we remember all the dead, whose life was filled with holiness found a reward in heaven. Fr. Ignacy Piwowarski is a priest who devoted his whole life to the service of God, his homeland and people. His patriotic sermons, courage and uncompromising action and zealous pastoral ministry, especially in times of extremely difficult Polish nation, consisted of significant sounding nicknames: Popieluszko from Berest, Beskidy Popieluszko. Fr. Ignacy was a well-known and respected pastor of the land of Sądecki in the 1970s and 1980s. During that time, he twice served as a pastor at the Marian shrine in Lipinki, my home town. He was my catechist. The parishioners of Lipinek owe many Fr. Ignatius. In the 1970s, as a vicar of the parish of Lipinka, he celebrated Mass for 10 months. at the church sealed by the SB in the Separation. In addition, during the fire of the historic church in Lipinki, despite his safety, he elevated the charred figure of Our Lady of Lipinska. He was also particularly involved in preparations for the coronation ceremony of Our Lady of Lipinska, which took place on 17 August 1980. Mission accomplished by Fr. Beervarsky, especially in the 1980s, had a special dimension on Gorlicka's land. The fight that Fr. Ignacy acted with a totalitarian system, for it was not limited only to the word preached from the pulpit, but was full of courageous deeds. Fr. Ignacy Piwowarski was a stand for the Gorlice solidarityists, always served with good advice, never discussed help. For 7 years, he kept the NSZZ flag of Solidarity from the Gorlice Oil Machinery Factory. When the offices and workplaces began to hang crosses, he came out with an initiative to suspend them at the school in Lipinki, which met with the absolute opposition of the authorities. As a schoolgirl, Fr. Ignacy I had the opportunity to participate in a two-week occupation strike, which despite numerous attempts to intimidate pupils and parents ended in success and thus returning crosses to school halls. We were the first school in Poland. Although I remember that on the certificate I had a reduced assessment of behavior, but the crosses were hung and remained. Furthermore, I would like to stress that it is from Fr. We Lithuanian students learned about the true history of our country, about the murder in Katyn and its real perpetrators, about the hearings in the SB and the murders in Poles, which today we refer to as the cursed soldiers. I am glad that Fr. Ignacy Piwowarski was appreciated in free Poland and on 2 March 2016 in Gorlice Fr. Ignatius the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. In the same year Fr. Ignacy was also decorated by President Andrzej Duda with the Officer's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. These decorations were a symbolic culmination of the great pastoral and patriotic work of Fr. Ignacy Piwowarski. Today, on the first anniversary of his death, in these few words, I wanted to keep the memory of Fr. Ignatius Piwowarski, a man who consistently preached the truth, prayed for it and passed it on to the next generation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-09-sejm-71-3.u413	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (vote on amendments 1, 3 and 16) On 9 November 2018, I mistakenly cast my vote for the vote, and my intention was to vote against the vote. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 71st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 72nd session of the Sejm, convened on 21, 22 and 23 November 2018, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 31]]
