ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I open the 60th seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretaries of the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 1 November 2018, Klemens Ścierski, senator of the fifth term, died, member of the Committee on the Environment. On 11 November 2018, Tadeusz Wnuk, senator of the fifth term, died, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Finance, the Committee on Laws and Laws and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the dead senators. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm adopted all the amendments of the Senate at its 70th meeting on 7 and 9 November 2018: to the Act on the Establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland; to the Act on the Amendment of the Act on State Labour Inspection; to the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Polish Press Agency; to the Act on Electronic Invoicing in Public Procurement, Construction and Services Licenses and Public-Private Partnership. In addition, the Sejm adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives at the same meeting. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. I would like to inform you that on 2 July 2018, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate about the functioning of social cooperatives operating under the Act of 27 April 2006 on social cooperatives for the period 2016 It is contained in print No 886. The Senate Marshal sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. I would like to inform you that the committee at its meeting on 20 November 2018 took note of the information. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points 7 to 14 be considered, point 18, points 20 to twenty-third, and points twenty-six to twenty-nine of the draft agenda be considered, even though the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. 34 Rules of Procedure of the Senate. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose changing the order of consideration of the points: twenty-third, i.e. Law on the amendment of the Law on Education, the Law on the system of education and other laws and its consideration as second point; twenty-fifth, i.e. Act amending the Law on medicinal activities and certain other laws and consider it as a third point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. President Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u2	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Senators of the Civic Platform, I would like to ask you not to include on the agenda: not to include the Financial Market Surveillance Act on the agenda. We have already called for this at the Senior Convention meeting. Unfortunately, our vote has not been taken into account by the Senior Convention. This is not only a controversial law, but also a law containing a corruption amendment, an amendment introduced at the stage of work in the Sejm by the PiS Members. It is a law allowing the jump to take place I don't hesitate to use that word. Private property, which is not only constitutionally protected, but also recognised as the basis of the current political order of the Republic of Poland. At the seymary stage, as you may remember, the PiS Club introduced an amendment to the Act which allowed the Financial Supervision Commission to take an administrative decision to take over one bank by another bank. The amendment does not apply only to small banks, contrary to the undisputed truth. She also applies to large banks. Moreover, it is not the law of the European Union and the implementation of the EU Resolution Directive. This directive was adopted in 2016 and states that the only authority empowered to carry out the bank's compulsory restructuring is the Bank Guarantee Fund. The Bank Guarantee Fund is the body implementing this directive. It is not by chance that today, on the agenda of the Parliament's deliberations, there is a provision concerning the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. Therefore, the debate and possible vote on the adoption by the Senate of this very dangerous proposal, this very dangerous law containing a dramatically dangerous solution, is merely a hand put by the senators to what is currently being done in Poland, i.e. to enable the assassination of private property, banks, companies and savings of Poles. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Senators of the Civic Platform, I request that this item not be placed on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have requested that the amendment of certain laws be excluded from the agenda in connection with the strengthening of financial market supervision and investor protection in this market. I am about to vote on your motion to exclude this amendment from the agenda. I would like to say, Mr. Senator, that the Senate has no way of stopping the bill. After receiving the bill from the Sejm, Mr. Marshal directs her to the relevant committees. Following the adoption of the committee report, we have the opportunity to adopt a law without amendments, with amendments, or to adopt a proposal to reject it. The bill went to the budget and finance committee. The report has already been prepared. I see no reason why you are linking this law, this amendment with the events that took place in KNF, Mr President. [[But, Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr President, you were free to speak. I am now briefly explaining why I believe that this amendment should, however, be maintained on this agenda. You're presenting facts here more press and media than real. We know what happened at KNF... Now there's a case going on, the head of the KNF has been dismissed, the servants are working, the DA's office is working. This does not and should not affect the legislative process either in the Seym or in the Senate. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the request of Mr... [[Yeah, but...]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u4	I'm not referring to the Marshal's opinion, because we all have the right to our own judgment. I would just like to say that I ask very precisely that this item should not be included on the agenda of this sitting of the Sejm. [[Voices from the Senate, Senate.]] Yes, the Senate. It's about not having that point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u5	Good. I put to the vote Mr Bogdan Klich's request. The President calls for the amendment of the Act amending certain laws to strengthen supervision of the financial market to be excluded from the agenda of the sixty-seventh Senate meeting. Who among you is in favour of President Klich's request? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted, 23 votes against, 56 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] I therefore declare that Senator Klich's request has been rejected. Mr. Marshal, I'm listening to you on what matter and in what mode? [[I'm on the agenda.]] Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As Senator Klich's request to take a photo off the agenda of the bill, which causes controversy, i.e. the Law on Financial Market Supervision and Investor Protection in this market, has been rejected, I request that the agenda be supplemented with information from Prime Minister Morawiecki about problems in the Committee on Banking Supervision after the forced resignation of its President. This bill, in my opinion, has an organic connection to the exposed scandal, and you can't say or think it didn't happen. This bill... Since the case was dealt with by the prosecution, I believe that the Senate has the right to know, to have information from the Prime Minister, to know his assessment of the situation, so that he knows whether what the Chairman of the Banking Supervision Committee has said about the Bank Guarantee Fund... And the next Senate meeting will discuss the Banking Guarantee Fund, where the same mechanism is introduced, the possibility of expropriating any bank whose assessment will be either the Chairman of the Banking Guarantee Fund or the Chairman of the Banking Supervision Commission. It has to do with our bill. Therefore, I believe that the senators should have full information on this matter before proceeding over this law, whether or not there is something going on, as you say. I request that such information be submitted to the Senate of the Republic of Poland and I propose that this be point five, before the point concerning the Act amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision of the financial market and the protection of investors in this market. Very nicely, and that's the general name of the bill, and its essence and purpose are completely different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u7	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I object. I don't think that information is at this stage. We need it. Financialists are careful not to politicalise this matter, ladies and gentlemen. In light of the above... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I therefore put Mr Borusewicz's request to the vote. I would like to remind you that the proposal concerns the inclusion on the agenda of the item on information by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on the situation on the financial market and the KNF. Yes? Who is in favour of Marshal Borusewicz's request to extend the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, 23 for, 55 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] I therefore conclude that your Marshal's request was rejected. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I state that the Senate has approved order... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Yes? [[Is it okay with you?]] Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the sake of fairness of the procedure on the third point, which is currently under discussion, the conclusions have been rejected. I would like to... My conclusion seems to be most in line with the expectations of the High House, but also the expectations of your marshal when he says not to politicalize this case. The aim is to consider the third item of the agenda, i.e. the Act amending the Law on Compulsory Insurance, ahead of the report of the Legislative Commission... [[Voice from the room: That's point five. The fifth must be...]] Fifth, I'm sorry... No, I think the sixth... [[Voices from the hall: Fifth is about financial supervision.]] About financial supervision... Yeah, I'm sorry. The point is that this examination is preceded by the work of the Legislative Commission and then by a report. I leave to the House a decision when this report is to be delivered. That's my conclusion. An apolitical application, made in the name of the integrity of the work. The reason is simple. Many legal backgrounds, but not only legislative departments, state that this law carries constitutional problems. And in the Senate, the committee responsible for dealing with such cases is the Legislative Commission. Thank you very much. [[Voice in the courtroom: So the motion for referral...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u9	I understand that the senator is asking for this bill to be referred to the Legislative Commission. Yes? [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal. It's a very simple proposition. Right?]] You've explained it a little intricately, but I understand what's going on. Good. Then we will put your motion to the vote. Who is in favour of the Law amending certain laws in view of strengthening financial market supervision to the Legislative Commission? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 24 supported your motion, 57 opposed, no abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] I therefore declare that Senator Rulewski's request was not accepted by the High House. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the sixty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland's 9th term of office. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of legislative proposals to point one, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the end of the session and after the committee's report on the matter has been prepared. Voting on point two, i.e. on the Law amending the Law on Education, the Law on the system of education and other laws, and the vote on the third point, i.e. the law on amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws will take place immediately after the law has been examined. If legislative proposals are tabled, the votes will be held after the end of the session and after the committee's reports on these matters have been prepared. I would like to inform you that today at 1 p.m. a half-hour break will be announced in connection with the opening, on the ground floor, of the Maritime and River League exhibition. After examination of point eight, i.e. the law on the amendment of the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws, we will proceed to the examination of the eleventh point, i.e. Law on the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, and points concerning ratification, i.e. points twenty-seven, twenty-eight and twenty-nine. Tomorrow we resume the session at 9:00 a.m. Point 18, i.e. The law on amending the law on hard coal mining and some other laws, we will consider tomorrow. On the third day of the meeting, i.e. On Friday, we will begin the proceedings at 9.00 a.m. after the examination of the 30th item, i.e. second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the appointment of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. We will then consider the amendment of the act on combating doping in sport, and then we will listen to information about the status of respect for human rights and human rights in 2017 and the activities of the Ombudsman. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the anniversary of the Great Hunger in Ukraine. I would like to welcome the Ukrainian Ambassador to Poland, His Excellency Andrija Desszczica, present at the Senate meeting. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Welcome, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print no. 987. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circle, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to present a draft resolution. Mr. Senator, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Ambassador! 85 years have passed since the Great Hunger disaster in Ukraine. The Ukrainian authorities mention this tragic event on the fourth Saturday of November, on the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Great Hunger, hence our resolution temporarily coincides with the celebrations that will take place in Kiev in a moment. The famines were not unique in the history of the Soviet Union. It is enough to mention the defeat in Tatarstan, the famine in Ukraine in the early 20's or just after World War II. However, the Great Hunger in the years 1932-1933 was the most tragic and most emblematic. For he showed the essence... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] ...totalitarian system, communist system, but also Admittedly, the robes of Bolshevik cosmopolitanism The hatred of non-dominant nationalities. The great hunger was, you might say, targeted In the class dimension, in the layer of independent peasantry, in private farmers called kułaki, as well as in Ukrainian nationality. This second aspect is so important that the Soviet authorities had previously pursued a policy of Ukraine. It was an element that was intended to limit the power of national movements, aiming for Ukrainian sovereignty. The famine was caused by forced collectiveisation, which was deepened by additional inhuman activities: compulsory, free distribution of agricultural fruits, the confiscation of grain for sowing, the law of five ears, that is, the law that the death penalty is subject to those who will collect at least 5 ears for their own use, thus killed, as it is estimated, 125 thousand people and the introduction of an internal passport, i.e. introducing a ban on leaving the village without the approval of the head of collective farm and sovchozu. And there was something else that we probably understand very well in Poland, as it was an element associated with the lie of Katyn. It is also worth mentioning here that there were politicians, for example. Prime Minister of France, who were used by Soviet propaganda to negate the fact of the Great Hunger. As a result of the Great Hunger, it is estimated that 6 million people were killed, at least 6 million people in the area of Ukraine and Cuba today. There were eastern areas where the population was more than 25%. All of this resulted in Lemkin, the creator of the term "humanicide," in 1953 declaring that the Great Hunger was a classic example of genocide. And I am proud that the Polish Senate was one of the first to adopt such a declaration after Georgia, Hungary and Lithuania, not only of the Great Starvation but also of the fact that we were dealing with genocide. Perhaps it is worth saying that 8 and 10 years later, the German-Soviet War had been twice passed through these areas, so these areas are particularly affected. If the High House wishes to adopt this resolution, we will not only worship, we will not only remind millions of people of the sacrifice and show sensitivity to the suffering of our neighbour, but also contribute to the awareness of Europeans, including Poles, of this tragic event and knowledge of what it was in the real dimension of communism. Mr Ambassador reminded me that today is the fifth anniversary of the start of the demonstration against President Yanukovych's decision not to sign an association agreement with the European Union. So we have, as it were, an additional coincidence. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the anniversary of the Great Hunger in Ukraine. 85 years have passed since the culmination of the Great Hunger in the then Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic. As a result, at least 6 million people died of starvation as a result of the collectiveisation and forced execution of unfettered agricultural products. The death penalty was commonly used for collecting by starving people left in the fields of ears. The law of five ears). In 2006 the Senate of the Republic of Poland in a special resolution recognised the Ukrainian assessment of these events as a crime of genocide. We believe that the dissemination of knowledge about this great tragedy in Europe will contribute to a better understanding of the consequences of communist ideology and totalitarianism. In connection with the anniversary of the Great Hunger of the Senate of the Republic of Poland celebrated in Ukraine, it reminds us of the death and suffering of millions of victims of this drama. We express our solidarity with the Ukrainian people in preserving the memory of these events and seeking to spread knowledge of this tragedy. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you, and I ask you to adopt a resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Ambassador! High Izbo! This resolution was signed jointly by the Senators of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform. I would like to stress that our vote on this issue is uniform. Ukraine has had a terrible period in Soviet Russia, in the Soviet Union, incomparably worse than the one we have been through, who also had to face this system. Hunger caused by collectiveisation, whether consciously carried out by the Soviet authorities or not, was a genocide because it concerned entire areas of Soviet Ukraine. It caused the deaths of several hundred thousand people. But earlier there was the war of the Ukrainians for independence, there were victims, and therefore there was the elimination of peasant revolts, which in Ukraine were the nature of war, and the pacification of the entire area by the Soviet army. Then there were further steps which, as a result of the actions of the Soviet authorities, led to a famine, and then there were cleansings among the intelligence of the Ukrainian and Ukrainian communist party. All the top intelligence, including the one that supported the Soviet Ukraine, was shot down. But before that, there was a famine or famine in Ukraine, which broke and broke Ukrainian resistance. I will remind you that during this time extermination actions were carried out in the territory of the Soviet Ukraine and the entire Soviet Union. And so the so-called. Polish action, within which more than 100,000 Poles were shot. German action was also carried out, etc., and actions were carried out in relation to all nationalities. When we go to Ukraine, today they tell us that in the underground churches, the monasteries were a layer of bones, which was transported by many trucks. These are the bones of the people murdered, murdered by the repression apparatus. Thus, this repression in Ukraine, mainly in Ukraine, was particularly intense and particularly ruthless. I had the opportunity to meet with activists of the Ukrainian Helsinki Group in 1989 and to listen to what their fates were. It was 27 years in prison, 15 years in prison. Several years in prison for activities in this territory were the lowest sentences, five years or seven years in prison. So you have to see the proportions, the proportions of repression, and how difficult it was to resist this system. Remembering this, about this terrible story, I would like to say that I am glad that this resolution is here, I am glad that it has been signed together. I hope that we will stop interpreting international policy through resolutions on which I have expressed my opposition and which have been voted in this Senate. I would also like to mention that the IPN Act contains a passage on the criminalisation of Ukrainian nationalism from 1924 to 1950. Since 1924, this is an interpretation of Soviet and Russian historiography. She is related to certain facts according to which the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization was transferred from Prague to Berlin and stopped cooperating with Moscow. That's why... We've accepted that interpretation, too. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: At the beginning...]] We need to get out of this. I am a Polish politician, not Ukrainian, but I will say that from my point of view cooperation and alliance with Ukraine, Ukraine's support in the situation of Russian aggression is Polish interest, it is a fundamental Polish interest. I will vote in favour of this resolution and I think we will all vote uniformly here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u13	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. President Bogdan Klich will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In Maisons-Laffitte, at the cultural institute, there is a digitalisation of all the collections of this great emigration center of thought of independent Poland. Therefore, it is no longer necessary to carry in backpacks the publication by Jerzy Giedroycia and his colleagues, just click and read what they wrote over the years, especially what Jerzy Giedroj and Mieroszewski wrote about regarding our eastern neighbours, and what can be written in one sentence: there is no independent Poland without independent Ukraine. Today, this password can be modified a bit, because we are, as Poles, under NATO's umbrella and are in the European Union, although we have a weaker position with the present government. So we are in a better position than our Ukrainian brothers. Poland is safe today, but that is why it is necessary whether this thought of Giedroycia and Mieroszewski can be formulated a little differently: there is no safe Poland without independent Ukraine. Therefore, Poland, which once again became independent in 1989, was the first country, I remind you: the first country that recognized independent Ukraine, in 1991, and thus 2 years after our country regained sovereignty. Ambassador Kozakiewicz did so on 2 December 1991, we will soon remember this anniversary. It is significant, it is important, it is crucial for Polish foreign policy that we look to the future together and emphasize what the Polish brothers and the Ukrainian brothers have in common. From this point of view, I read this draft resolution and I see in it this very thought of Giedroycia and Mieroszewski and the worship of the suffering of our Ukrainian brothers when our common opponent actually committed crimes in the Ukrainian people. There will be no safe Poland without independent Ukraine and there will be no independent Ukraine without the memory of the Great Hunger. This principle probably guided President Juszczence at a time when these horrible events were commemorated. This principle is present. I think today also in our thinking, in the Senate, and fortunately it prevails over all those who would like to share Poles with Ukrainians. Well, that's the division that always gets the third one. That's what happened in history, that's what happened today. Therefore, this resolution, adopted, I hope, unanimously, will be an expression of common concern for Poles and Ukrainians to have as much understanding as possible, as much cooperation as possible, as much agreement for the benefit of both parties, so that it is a barrier for the third who wants to assassinate Ukraine's independence and the security of Poland from the outside. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u16	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Ambassador! We know that very well, at least our party to the Senate knows that today Polish-Ukrainian relations are certainly not where we would very much like these relations to be. The reasons for this state of affairs, in our opinion, lie on the side of history, which was as it was, and we must bear this story together in the name of truth. This truth, because it is often painful, cannot facilitate dialogue, but must at the same time be the foundation of this dialogue. However, we have in our history, both the Ukrainian people and the Polish people, such tragic events about which we can say that the man, together the Pole and the Ukrainian, was experienced in them by such tragic experiences, so tragic for humanity the existence of the system, the communist system, that we are common ambassadors, ambassadors of the case. I read this resolution, which we are evidently taking with great, great will, also in the name of, and perhaps above all in the name of honoring all those who suffered and who died of starvation as a result of the evident genocide carried out on the land of Ukraine in the years 1932 and 1933; I will say that not only at that time. It's on one side. On the other hand, this resolution is also so that we can act together, Ukraine and Poland, because we, as Poles, have also experienced acts of genocide from the communist regime. The point is that we can, Mr. Ambassador, work together in this present world, so that no one will ever see such a Bolshevik system bloom in their heads again in life. First of all, it is about not blooming in the heads of the so-called. intellectuals who seem to be able to organize the world according to the design in words expressing themselves beautifully, and in actions expressing a crime, as it was in this case. As was the case in this case, in which Bolshevism grew out of socialism, from the tradition of the Great French Revolution, the Jacobin Revolution, and seemed a progressive idea to create happiness in the world. Great Hunger, ladies and gentlemen, is not the result of any misunderstanding of things. This is, according to the Bolshevik intellectuals of the time, the result of understanding things. That's the drama of it all. The first wave of genocide, which affected the Ukrainian people in the Soviet Union, was already the 1922-1923 years when the very high quota obligations that caused... The economy in those areas was not ready to bear this tragic, imposed quota. And then in 1929, in the name of ideology, collectiveisation began in those areas and the results of this collectiveisation further reduced the economic opportunities in those areas, especially for agricultural products. At the same time, in the name of the doctrine and its ideology, at the same time as the destruction of notabene and Polish peasants and Ukrainians on this Ukrainian land, ideologists and Bolshevik intellectuals invented that the social structure of the Soviet Union had to be changed and that the heavy industry and investments, which were once again ideologically designed They were introduced in large cities and caused an influx of working class... And yet, Bolsheviks are according to the ideology of an act of the working class, and therefore the working class should be the most numerous. Come on, then, let's invest and let the working class rule the world, and we, as an asset, a party elite, a Bolshevik, will lead them to happiness. The effect was that there was no food in the city, and in that case it was necessary to introduce even deeper legal provisions concerning quotas which were to reach these cities from the Ukrainian village, whether this village was well-equipped or not. It's this project, this engineering that doesn't count at all with human dignity, with an individual, that is the source of this Bolshevik genocide system. Mr. Ambassador, our great mission of civilization, which we have today as generations of happily living in freedom. But we know that our loved ones, grandparents, great-grandfathers, past generations and Ukrainians, and Polish, all of them experienced this communist regime, is that it is we who must constantly remind the world of this, just as we remind the Third Reich. We're doing it. We, Poles Because we were experienced by her in an unusual way. The same is true in this case we have a duty And the Ukrainian people, and the Polish people To remind the world that totalitarianism of Bolshevik and Soviet was such a destruction of human civilization, any moral code, or Christian code, or any other code, to which we would appeal, that once and for all it was necessary to persuade the world to base itself on any aspect of this ideology and create in the world supposedly progressive order. This resolution, I think, is exactly the kind of voice that invites us on the one hand to honor the victims, and on the other hand, to act jointly in a clearly very important way. Civilised cases The truth about the Bolshevik regime would win in the world. It's still up to date to win. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We are voting on the draft resolution on the anniversary of the Great Hunger in Ukraine. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, we proceed with the vote. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, 78 votes in favour, no one was. against or abstained from voting. [[Voting No 4]] [[Applause]] I therefore state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the anniversary of the Great Hunger in Ukraine. Mr. Ambassador, please, I would like to pass you a resolution. [[Vice-Marshal Maria Koc passes the resolution]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a minute's break so guests can leave the room calmly. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Your Senate, we're reopening the session. Senators, please take your seats. We proceed with the review of the second agenda item: the Law on the amendment of the Law of the Education Law, the Law on the system of education and other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 989, and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 989 A and 989 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I present a report by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the law of the Education Law, the Law on the system of education and other laws. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee welcomed the draft at its meeting on 14 November. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that its aim is to restore the prestige of vocational training in Poland by improving the quality and efficiency of education in schools and institutions. The proposed solutions take into account mechanisms for involving all key vocational training partners in actions to systematically adapt this education to the needs of the labour market. In this context, the Act introduces new vocational training arrangements, which concern the organisation of vocational training in the second-grade and post-school sectors, as well as the conditions for the school to start training in the profession; the modification of the conditions for introducing vocational training into the classification of vocational training; the strengthening of employers' participation in vocational training, including the implementation of practical vocational training for school pupils; the strengthening of the supervision of the school's head of the quality of training provided to employers; the possibility for schools to organise shorter courses; the introduction of an obligation for pupils to take a vocational examination as a condition for school completion. In addition, additional skills in professions are assumed to increase employability and compulsory sector training for vocational training teachers of 40 hours is introduced within 3 school years. Rules have been introduced to subsidise public secondary schools providing vocational training courses and professional secondary schools. There has been increased funding for employers for the cost of teaching pupils in deficit professions and educational materials in electronic or paper form have been allowed for school use. The Act harmonises the salary of practical teachers to 20 hours a week. In addition, changes will be made to the rules on accreditation for lifelong learning in out-of-school forms. The Act introduces internships which will take place in the first-grade professional schools. In addition, new solutions will be introduced to: the possibility of providing children and young people with disabilities with free transport and care during transport to secondary school and a centre in cases where the municipality is not obliged to do so; the possibility of providing pupils with a basic school room for safe and hygienic meals during school classes; the obligation for the school authority to disseminate information on the health care providers for pupils. In addition, according to the will and recommendation of the Polish community, we change the name of the school consultation points to Polish schools. The name "Polish Schools" will apply from 1 September 2019. A very important information for Polish-school teachers is to enable a career promotion. Teachers outside the borders have been waiting for this for many years. These teachers will be able to receive a professional promotion outside the borders. The Act introduces a combination of classes in special primary schools, special secondary schools, including those operating in medicinal entities and social assistance units. The Act clarifies the questionable provisions concerning: issues related to pedagogical experiment; the principles of assessment of school or kindergarten organisation sheets; the standardization of the charging of preschool education; the possibility for secondary school pupils to carry out an individual programme or course of learning to take a prom exam; the requirements for the form and form of general education manuals authorised for school use. Please accept the bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u19	Thank you, Senator. Now I would like to ask the floor of the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arthur Warzocha, and to present a report to the committee. You're welcome. Then there will be any questions for your rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration took place, which was held inter alia. on the amendment of the Law on Education, the Law on the system of education and certain other laws. Unlike the Committee on Education, Science and Higher Education, the committee agreed to make some amendments to the proposed text of the amendment. Comments were submitted by the Legislative Office of the Senate Office, of which 2 are of a general nature. The first relates to the way in which the rules are drawn up. Because they are marked in many letters, this is not a clear text. Well, it doesn't help the legibility of a legal act. And this was, as I said, a general remark, as was the latter, which concerned the date of entry into force of these provisions. The Legal Office's comments, which were specific in nature, concerned inter alia. Article 2 Point 1 (23). In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 46b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This amendment was not accepted by the committee. On the other hand, in the second proposal, which was also included in the specific comments, the Legislative Office suggested the introduction of Article. 42 amendments to Article 54 (1) (a) Point 4 (1) (a) c Law on mortgage credit and supervision of mortgage intermediaries and agents. This amendment is based on the fact that middle education is replaced by medium or medium professional education. And this amendment was accepted by the members of the committee. Another specific comment formulated by the Legislative Office concerned the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The Bureau noted that these provisions were issued on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 5 therefore proposed to clarify the indication of the legal basis and to add paragraph. 5 to that Article. 117. In addition, Senators Arkadiusz Grabowski and President Andrzej Pajak have proposed two more amendments, which relate to Article. Point 6 (4), Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) They aim to add an article. 139a.139c to the Law on the revision of the provisions of education law, so that changes concerning the evaluation of the teacher's work do not lead to an extension of the period of professional promotion of teachers. The second amendment concerning Article. 45 and Article 45 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Its aim was to eliminate possible interpretational doubts. It would be appropriate to specify in the legislation that existing branches of upper secondary schools, i.e. high schools and technicians, can also be conducted in newly created secondary schools and techniques and schools of the new system created in 2019 as a result of the transformation or inclusion of the existing secondary school. These 4 amendments, 2 specific amendments, proposed by the Legislative Office of the Senate Office, and the last 2 amendments that I mentioned, were accepted by President Andrzej Pajak and Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, representatives of the Ministry of National Education. The Commission has accepted these amendments, as I also ask the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marzena Machalek is with us today. And I welcome you very cordially. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Maybe if there are questions.]] Okay, thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[Nobody gets...]] [[I...]] Oh, you're Professor Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It appears that the bill under consideration is compatible with this law, i.e. I thought we all supported her. It shows that there were no questions. But I would like to stress here that this is also an important, expected act. As part of the change of the last 30 years, there was a time when vocational education was largely limited. Maybe I'll just say it as gently as I can. Therefore, many problems were signalled by entrepreneurs and craftsmen. We also see that the labour market is changing a lot, that there are huge needs there. It was such a vision that, in view of the dynamic development of the information society and the knowledge economy, we would shift the vocational training model to the level of vocational higher education and, at the same time, all of us would propose general education schools ending in Matura. It was a very nice concept, she liked it, but she didn't stand the test of time. It turns out that here, however, another model is needed. And that big effort... Because it has to be emphasized that this is a large law of about 300 pages. So we have a law of education, of 300 pages, and we have rules of introduction from 300 pages, and now we have another 300 pages of amendment. But if we judge after the committee hearing, we must say that we see... Perhaps in practice some adjustments will be needed, as is the case with any law, but it is indeed a very, very necessary law, going in the right direction. I hope that its introduction and monitoring will bring many results. It contains a number of provisions concerning cooperation with the economy, the creation of certain directions, the modification of them, the participation of entrepreneurs All of this is extremely important, which is why I strongly support this law and I hope that it will be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u23	Thank you very much. And here you are, Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law is undoubtedly necessary, but it concerns a much wider spectrum of cases and changes a lot of laws. In fact, the main drawback of this submission is that the law is completely opaque, because subsequent amendments have so laid out that the text is completely illegible. Actually, it's the ministry's pursuit. And at the committee meeting, the Minister explained... And she explained, saying that this matter is taken into account in more detailed laws, and gradually it will, so to speak, brighten, in the sense of readability. And that should be accepted as positive. However, this presentation that we received was actually completely illegible. There was also no opinion of the Legislative Bureau. At the end of the meeting, a representative of the Polish Teachers' Association strongly protested against changes in the form of teacher employment, i.e. outside of the employment contract, for teachers with a small employment range, i.e. up to 4 hours a week, and against simplification, so to speak, requirements for such teachers. At the same time, it must be fair to say that the case of proceedings against a person or criminality has been upheld, so that this plea cannot be made. But, as I said, a single text is actually necessary and a new law is actually needed in the future or, as the Minister said, a set of laws that would be transparent and legible However, it concerns, so to speak, a very broad spectrum of people, a wide audience of both legal and, let's say, social... For them, these changes are necessary. I would like to conclude by proposing an amendment relating to the issue in which the Polish Teachers' Union protested, i.e. as regards these simplified forms of non-contractual employment... They are not non-contractual, but outside the employment contract can be e.g. contract-order for small-time teachers. So I am simply proposing an amendment to remove the parliamentary amendment that introduced this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Piotr Wach. The discussion is closed. In the debate, senators... Excuse me. Is the representative of the government, the Minister, willing to comment on the proposals put forward? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u26	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I would very much like to answer some fundamental questions, because I think this is very important and, above all, I would like to thank you very much for your work in the Senate, for the substantive work of the Senate committees. But I will remind you that, in principle, it is important that this law was adopted in the Sejm, with only one Member abstaining from voting, so there was no point and provision in the case of this act of controversy. And as far as education laws and education law are concerned, they are really very complicated and even for those involved in education that are not easy to read. Even for lawyers who deal with education law, these are specialized lawyers, and there's also a group of legislators with me. It's hard and hard to interpret... Maybe not for interpretation, but you really need to dig into it. And surely our efforts and Minister Zalewska's efforts since 2015 have been very much in the direction of making this right clear. Hence, we had 2 main laws on the education system, i.e. the body law, and the Teacher's Charter, i.e. professional pragmatism. In view of several dozen amendments, it is difficult to read a law or a single text even for non-educational lawyers. We're getting out of this, but the system is complicated. The education system affects many people Not only children, not only young people, but also adults They are at different stages of their lives and at different stages of their education. Each of these situations must be taken into account in ordering the rules. It's gonna be a trial. From here we accepted this assumption and in 2016 education law was established, and a year ago the law on the financing of education. Probably would have to be modeled for every group of issues... e.g. For future vocational education, a law on vocational training should be established. It's probably something to think about, but today I can't promise it, because it would have to be a long-term job, not even a month's work. What we can do at this stage, when it comes to transparency, is we organize, but I understand that they have this character and not another character. Over this bill and other laws... I will agree here with Senator Wach that this law applies to very many laws. It applies not only to education law, not only to the education system law, not only to the Teacher Charter, but to many laws concerning many resorts. That's why we've been working on this presentation for a year and a half. It has been developed, discussed with more than a thousand employers, with all the resorts, with teachers, with school heads and with local government officials. We have no idea that nothing that needs to be updated will come out during application. Perhaps you will. These are innovative solutions. This starts with the fact that employers have been involved in the process since the programming of education, then they are present in the education process. There's a tough commitment here. Teachers are obliged to train professionally. We are introducing a greater link between statutory schools and the labour market and the economy. Only that in all this we see man, we see the social development and economic development that serves it. Therefore, on the one hand, the employer, but on the other hand, we as a country need to set up tasks for the future and see in what direction the social development of Poland and graduates is going to be in. We are aware of this... It's not that we want most Poles to have a professional education. We want this professional education to be qualitative, effective and young people not to go there accidentally. If you read the justification, and the justification is clear and clear in my opinion, the objective is quite clear on what we really are changing, and I think that even someone who is not interested in it in detail can see how important, how important, comprehensive and complementary the changes we propose are... They relate to the programming of education, the links between schools, teachers and funding, the links between school funding and the efficiency, relevance and effectiveness of education. Of course, during the procession there appeared elements so called. cleaning cases from previous laws. We have made changes regarding the evaluation of the teacher's work, an amendment has been made here, but we have also amended the Education Finance Act, which the senator referred to. I have a petition in front of me, which reads that it was prepared as a result of the project Suveren consults on the good law that builds the educational initiatives implemented by the Federation and the Polish Teachers Association. They call for an amendment which was tabled at second reading at the parliamentary procession stage. In general, therefore, teachers are to be employed for employment contracts, covered by the Teacher's Charter, in non-self-government institutions as well, but we allow such situations. If the work does not exceed 4 hours a week, in non-public institutions, this applies mainly to kindergartens, it often applies to specialists who are teachers and therapists, also to linguistics. That they may have a contract other than an employment contract. This is on request and after consulting the social side. In that sense, we're open. Thank you for accepting this amendment. So that on the one hand we are strict about the principle that the teacher works on the basis of a contract of employment, but on the other hand we imagine situations that are good for the teacher, and for the child, that the teacher is employed in a different form. Thank you for your work. I think that this law will actually contribute to the fact that vocational training will regain prestige, will regain quality, I think it is a milestone on this road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today after the adjournment. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on medicinal activities and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 1007, and the report of the committee In print No 1007 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Health Commission meeting on 14 November 2018 examined amendments to the Act amending the Law on Medical Activity and certain other laws; print No 1007. According to the justification of the draft law amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws, the purpose of the law is to enable physiotherapists to pursue their profession in the framework of their professional practice. The amendment repeals the restrictive rule for physiotherapists. Article 143 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the physiotherapist's profession law on compulsory entry in the register of entities carrying out medical activities. The deadline for fulfilling this obligation is 30 November this year. Physiotherapists have become a professional group, as have representatives of other medical professions, covered by a separate law governing the pursuit of this profession and its professional self-government. Only this amendment grants physiotherapists the right to pursue a profession in the form of individual or group practices. The amending law adopted by the Sejm on 9 November 2018 introduces more favourable regulation for physiotherapists than the current one. In addition to the previously mentioned waiver of the obligation to register physiotherapists as medicinal entities by 30 November 2018, under the strict condition of the loss of the right to pursue the profession, as well as the introduction of the possibility to pursue the profession as an individual or group professional practice, the amendment extends the scope of the activity considered to be the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist and introduces a regulation on the self-granting of benefits. The Act shall, as a general rule, enter into force on 1 April 2019. It is permissible to operate without inclusion in the Register of Medical Operators until 31 October 2019. Physiotherapists entered in the Register of Medical Operators after 31 May 2016 and before 1 April 2019 may enter the performance of their professional practice in the Register of Professional Practices of Physiotherapists without the obligation to pay a fee if they apply for deletion from the Register of Medical Operators performing medicinal activities. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the Minister spoke, the legislator and the President of the National Chamber of Physiotherapists spoke. Everyone was positive about the shape of this bill. There was a vote at the committee meeting, a motion from the committee to adopt a law without amendments. Such a proposal was adopted unanimously by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u30	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, I have a question. Of course, this is a very good solution, because here, as I understand it, some shortcomings of the existing rules are being removed. I have a specific question: were there representatives of the environments concerned at the meeting of the Health Committee yesterday, and if so, what was their opinion on this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u32	The meeting took place on 14 November. There were representatives of interested groups, the President of the National Chamber of Physiotherapists, who expressed a very positive opinion on the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u33	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. No more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today after the adjournment. In a moment, ladies and gentlemen, I will announce a recess by 1:30 p.m. I would just like to remind you that at 1 pm on the ground floor there will be an opening of the exhibition "Sea and River League." Messages. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u34	Message. The joint meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law on the Amendment of the Law. Education Law, the Law on the system of education and some other laws will be held today 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u35	Thank you. Dismissed until 1:30 p.m. At 1:30 a.m., vote. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 26 to 13 minutes 30]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We are returning to the second agenda: the law on amending the law on education law, the law on the system of education and other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 989 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Margaret Kopiczko, to present the report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! During the break, a joint meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration took place. An application for a law without amendment was rejected. Amendments 1, 5, 6... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and 9 and Amendments 3 and 8. [[Four and seven more.]] [[Voice from the room: No. 4.]] Amendments 4 and 7 also, yes. No. 4 and 7.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u37	Good. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Do the Senator, Mr Piotr Wach, or the other Senator rapporteur want to speak? [[Voice from the room: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 68 senators voted, no one was in favour, 67 senators were against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 5]] I state that the proposal to adopt the law without amendments was rejected. So we are voting on these amendments. Amendments 1, 5, 6 and 9 will be voted together. Amendment 1 removes the regulation on the establishment of regulations setting out the indicators for assessing the work of teachers. Amendments 5, 6 and 9 are a consequence of this. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 69 senators voted, 68 votes against and one abstention. [[Voting No 6]] I conclude that Amendments 1, 5, 6 and 9 have been accepted. Amendments 2 and 10 will also be voted together. Amendment 2 removes the possibility of hiring teachers on a different basis than the employment contract. Amendment 10 is a consequence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 20 for, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] I conclude that Amendments 2 and 10 have been rejected. Amendments 3 and 8 will also be voted together. Amendment 3 aims to clarify that branches of existing upper secondary schools can also be conducted in newly created general education schools and techniques. Amendment 8 is a consequence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 votes in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 8]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 3 and 8 have been accepted. Amendment 4 clarifies the terminology of the amended provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 votes in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 aims to clarify the legal basis on which the implementing provisions have been issued temporarily in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 votes in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 Senators voted, 73 for, no one opposed, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] Therefore, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law of. Education Law, the Law on the system of education and some other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws. The Health Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. It's a senate print no. 1007 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 75 votes in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws. Thank you very much. That's where we ended the vote. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 996 and the report of the Commission In print No 996 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u38	I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! At its meeting on 16 November, the Commission examined the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 contained in Senate Print No 996. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. During the committee meeting, many invited guests presented their views, and the National Commission of the NSZZ "Solidarity" presented its position in writing. In general, the positions that were received by the committee concerned the rate of defreeze of the remuneration base and the basis for the establishment of an occupational welfare fund. The pace proposed in the Act, i.e. the adoption of the 2013 level of remuneration, as indicated by the social side... Well, it indicated that the defrost rate was too slow. The Minister present in the Chamber presented to the senators the position arising from the amounts entered into the budget, the position which states that these amounts should be gradually de-freed and that they could not be adopted immediately as the basis for the level of remuneration of the previous year. This discussion is over. The Commission adopted the position I presented 1 Senator abstained. In other words, she proposed that the Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u40	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u41	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr Senator, rapporteur! Speaking of which, the trade union objection... I did not understand enough, it is my mistake, why this rate of freezing of the social fund, despite the very good, supposedly the best in the history of the Third Republic, the financial situation of the state, is slowed down. Perhaps out of love for the former government, especially for Mr Rostowski, who among others. Afraid of the financials, he froze these things?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u42	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u43	Thank you very much. This law, like any around-budget law, adapts the legal provisions contained therein to the amounts of expenditure included in the draft budget law for 2019 and is inextricably linked to the parallel draft budget law for 2019. The Senate will be dealing with this bill in January, and the Parliament's work is currently underway. These amounts, these coefficients adopted in the around budget law, are complementary, complementary, they are correlated with the amounts adopted in the budget. The planned deficit, the expenditure appropriations in the various budget headings make it possible to defreeze precisely this rate. This is the information we received from the Minister, which was agreed by the members of the committee by taking such a recommendation to the High House, as I have pointed out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u44	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u45	Mr. Senator, I have three questions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20 The aim is to eliminate doubts as to the eligibility of funds for the transfer of OFE contributions. As you know, these doubts are on the European Commission line, the Polish government. How does this law remove these doubts: by agreeing to the opinion of the European Commission that these are public funds or, on the contrary, that they are private? Unless it's about other doubts? This is the first case. Second thing. Is it in the article? 27 is the allocation of the Labour Fund resources to the labour incentive scheme depending on the effectiveness of activation of the unemployed, or is it something else? It's so enigmatically defined in our materials... I'm not a member of the committee, so I'm asking. And one last question. What does it mean to increase the limits for the preventive vaccination programme? Is the government preparing any regulation in this regard? We know that there is a great debate on the necessity of vaccination. Is this extra money related to some kind of statutory change? I'd like a closer explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u46	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u47	Thank you very much. The answer to these 3 questions is very easy. None of these issues have been discussed by the committee, so... [[She was an object.]] This was not discussed during the meeting. Like that. [[She was an object...]] So that's the way it is. The subject was, of course, the entire bill... [[I was just...]] ...but none of these issues were discussed during the committee meeting. Therefore, I cannot report the course of the discussion. The Minister present will certainly take over these questions and give explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u48	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think I'm gonna quit 'cause you're gonna answer... I think I'm gonna drop the question because you're gonna answer it like you did before... [[The question was...]] But I'm gonna ask you two questions. If you answer, I'll ask you another one. Mr Senator, did the committee's meeting address the question of why the tasks that can normally be included in the budget are financed by various types of funds? In general. I won't mention them, they're listed in the bill. Why did you agree with the idea of budgeting? Well, this bill will shape the future budget. That's the first question. And a second question about the spending rule. Has the expenditure rule, or more precisely the current one, so to speak, the level of expenditure rule for 2019 been discussed during a committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u50	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u51	Thank you very much. Indeed, the senator actually predicted my answer. These issues were not discussed during the committee meeting, so I leave these questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u52	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u53	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'm not gonna make it easy for you to answer, because I know you're the problem solver. I'm going back to the first question. I don't think I do. I understand that, I mean. in accordance with the provisions of financial law, which assumes that budgetary laws are created first and then the budget is arranged. In turn you have reversed this order and says that first we make a budget, and then we add a mouth to it, that is, around budget laws. I hope you don't follow that rule. But on the subject of social funds, I would like to say that it is not the budgetary indicators that regulate them, it is the will of the legislator, especially the Senate, among others. The Senate. The Lord deprives us of bread, Senator. So please answer the question: what was the real necessity of freezing the social fund? That's the first question. The second question, although I know that this question will be sort of suspended in the vacuum: was this discussed, does the Ministry take into account the fact that we are facing a decision on brexite and therefore the need to reduce the budgetary resources that have affected the European Union's revenue?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u54	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u55	Yes. Thank you very much. Well, I'm always happy to answer to the senator, so this time I'm going to answer. I'd like to say that we're dealing with frostbite, not freezing. [[But slow.]] It's true. Defrosting, as every housewife knows, is always a slow process. Too fast defrosting leads to indigestion, but I don't suspect... [[Depends on how frozen it is.]] I don't think there's any indigestion in this case. [[Except ice cream.]] Of course, we would all like this to be unfrozen as soon as possible. We defrost as soon as possible. Well, it was frozen by Minister Rostowski's infamous memory. I remember, in my previous term of office, I always asked about the meaning of this freezing, given that most of our gross domestic product is generated by consumption. So this freezing is like an anti-growth action, isn't it? Well, that was politics back then. With this policy, the Law and Justice Government is done, as you can see in this law. There's defrosting, yeah, there's defrosting. We can discuss the rate of defrosting. As I said, we would all like this to go faster, but this budget carries with it a wide range of obligations, there are huge transfers that support the consumption of our countrymen. I'm sure the Minister will remind you of the magnitude of this defrosting. I'm sorry, I left a note on this, and I don't remember what the difference is in the budget if we accept this defrosting over the next few years. Forgive me if I don't have that data with me. I don't want to risk giving the wrong amount, so I kindly ask the Minister to tell me what size it would be if he could defrost that base any more quickly for another year. Anyway, we're not freezing it, we're freezing it off. And in fact, I think that explains the true intentions of this recipe. We're freezing. [[And the second question?]] Oh, the brexite you raised. She wasn't discussed. Moreover, this law does not touch on the issue of the budget of European funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u56	Thank you. Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u57	I'm going back to the defrosting specialty because you used a nice comparison, and I'm not going to drag it... In any case, as regards defrosting, please tell me: if you accept today, in this draft law, what follows from the legal provisions on the adoption of the basis for the calculation of the social fund, what would be the difference between what should be and what we have in the budget for 2019?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u58	I wanted to ask the same question, so I join you: what is the difference between the basis of calculation in 2013 and the one in 2017? I understand you're...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u59	I was just asking the Minister to remind me of these figures for each year and if we'd accepted this... I don't have a note with me, please forgive me, but I left it on the table, on the desk in the committee's room. Therefore, as I said before, with the permission of the senators, I would ask the Minister to give this information. So we'll have a precise answer from the Minister. Anyway, I'd like to add that at the committee's meeting of this information... That's the kind of question no one asked at the committee meeting. [[But you took a note.]] Yeah, I got a note. [[That's very good.]] I was getting ready.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u60	Mr. Senator Rulewski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u61	Yes. Unfortunately, I'd like to ask you, using your knowledge. ..big.. If the summa summarum financial balance of these laws is burdened with social transfers or relieves the burden. And how much? [[Compared to last year's...]] Of course, compared to last year's. And second question. Was there any information at the committee meeting, at least the government, I understand that you didn't ask about it, Mr. Senator, which is why I'm replacing you here a little bit. Or the Labour Fund, which is so widely discussed here, which is the object of not really freezing or defrosting, but cutting... Is the resources from the Labour Fund sufficient to fulfil its basic function, i.e. for activation of the unemployed, given that this money will be spent on the PPK, are booked in connection with the Act "For Life," for increases for young doctors, for specializations, for internships... I've asked you this before, but I haven't been informed so far whether the money from this fund is enough for what it's called for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u62	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u63	Thank you very much. I'll start with the second question, the labour fund issue. The possibilities for the labour fund to be available are due to a fall in unemployment and a decrease in projected expenditure on activation of the unemployed. As the senator notes, we all see this, we have a labour market which is increasingly the labour market of the employee, yes, an employee, not an employer. In many regions of Poland employees are a wanted resource. This is why there are opportunities to use the Labour Fund for other activities. Is that enough? Yes. In the draft budget, which we are not yet discussing, of course these values are presented and they all look good. So that's enough. As regards the tasks that appear in this Act in the context of the Labour Fund's resources, i.e. the question, as you said, of the employee capital programmes, the PPK, the issue of doctors' internship, the question of the life programme, etc., these are important tasks, important programmes and none of the senators at the meeting questioned the validity of the transfer of funds to them. [[And the first...]] Oh, and the first question is, does it burden you or relieve you? I would need to know what you mean by the terms "unloads" and "loads," as you understand these concepts, so that I can give a precise answer. Well, there's always a risk that when you claim to know the answers to all the questions, then it turns out that you didn't understand the question, so I'd rather ask the senator. about what you mean by the terms "unloads" and "loads." Only then will I try to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u64	You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u65	Does the summa summarum take money from citizens, or do they transfer more money from this rich budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u66	In my opinion, of course, there is an increase in the transfer to citizens, even through this frostbite, which we have just discussed so much about. So more money goes into our pockets, into our citizens' wallets. Then I guess we'd be happy to accept that bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u67	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] At present, senators can report from a place of no longer than a minute of questioning... Sorry, it's already been done. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Tomasz Robaczyński like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to say that the nature of this law is above all that it is complementary to the draft budget law which was presented to the High Sejm by the government, i.e. it de facto presents technical solutions that allow implementation of the project submitted by the government. Here in the discussion there has already been a question: what is the first thing, or budget, or the around budget law? They must be created complementaryly, because one without the other simply cannot exist, i.e. it would not have been possible to implement the budget without a around-the-budgetary law and, of course, a around-the-budgetary law without a budget as such would not have made sense. The government's request, or at least the Minister of Finance, is to adopt this law without amendment. I won't, of course... Senator Bierecki has already presented the main principles of the bill. I would perhaps immediately refer to these few issues referred to in the senators' questions, so that I would no longer present the general concept of the law, which is known, which the senators you know, but explain these few points. As for the unfreeze of the company's social benefit fund, it is indeed, as the senator said, and this is also the idea behind these solutions, so that... the budgetary possibilities allow to unfreeze the arrears that have arisen when it comes to freezing the various employee benefits. This situation allows to defrost the thawing. You can't unfreeze everything at once, the more that This will, of course, also be discussed in the High House when discussing the budget, for the first time in 10 years the basic amount has been thawed. So that's one issue that concerns employee benefits, and that's more than that, even if it's an occupational welfare fund. This is a huge crowd of government officials, officers, etc., and this is not really possible at one time. Moreover, as regards the occupational welfare fund, programmes and certain benefits which were traditionally financed by the occupational social benefit fund, such as the free manual, the good start, the state aid for nutrition or the scheme, are continued and introduced. Under these schemes, such benefits are de facto implemented, which are also financed by an occupational social benefit fund. So much for defrosting. As for getting rid of the doubt about the transfer of funds to OFE, one of the senators asked: This right here is the amount of PLN 3.3 billion. These are doubts as to whether these are private funds or any other means... The Supreme Audit Chamber, when controlling individual budgets, pointed out that the funds that complement the contributions were always regarded as income, because originally they were to be financed from privatisation revenues. Since these privatisation revenues are already negligible and contributions are further supplemented, there is really no reason for the flow from the state budget to be regarded as a distribution, but as The Supreme Audit Office paid attention to this. It is simply the expenditure of the state budget which increases the deficit. We found that indeed the Supreme Audit Chamber is right and that the economic nature of this flow is de In fact, the expenditure of the State budget, and so it was simply included in the State budget. With regard to the expenditure rule, of course, the entire budget law and general expenditure of the public finance sector must simply comply with the requirements of the expenditure rule, otherwise we could not or would not be able to submit such a budget to the government and the government to the parliament. Therefore, it is difficult to say on the implementation of the expenditure rule in the quota sense. It is simply the budget that meets the requirements of the expenditure rule, so to speak. About Brexit Which I'm sure will be discussed, and there's no such thing in the budget-by-budget bill. We are aware that, at some point, the proceeds from EU funds will be lower, and it may turn out that our contributions to the EU budget will in turn be higher, but the latest information or reports we have show that it is highly likely that the UK exit agreement from the European Union will not result in such sudden movements, i.e. it will probably not be hard Brexit, as we might have expected, although this is not yet certain. Therefore, based on what other countries have been doing, for example Denmark, the draft budget law for 2019 provides for a reserve specifically for the possible need for a sudden increase in the contribution to the budget of the European Union. As far as the Labour Fund is concerned, despite the tasks that the Labour Fund does, as if a little over-planned, in fact there will be more money in the Labour Funds at the end of 2019 than at the beginning of 2019, because there will be more than 21 billion compared to more than 15 billion that were at the beginning of the year. So that here there is no risk of failure or failure by the Labour Fund to carry out tasks as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u69	Thank you, Minister. Senator Rulewski is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u70	Minister, what about the promise widely distributed by various government representatives, too, seems, by the Prime Minister? The point is that the around-budget bill does not include the 13th case for pensioners and pensioners, possibly another change. And this change should already take place so that from 1 January it is possible to comfort pensioners and pensioners who have the lowest pensions throughout the European Union. Minister, the funds, as you said, are very large in the Labour Fund account and will be very large. And that's good news. But is it a way of ripping him off, or is it not his destiny to tear him apart? Shouldn't the write-down of the Labour Fund be reduced, which now amounts to 2,45% ? As unemployment is not increasing, unemployment is not widespread, of course the contribution could be lower, which would particularly relieve small employers. And the third issue, Minister. Don't you think it's wrong to assess unemployment... sorry that it's partly wrong to assess unemployment, which is due to the fact... Because fewer people were born. than there are people of the age where you can take a job, and also there are still a lot of people leaving. And do you take this into account, as well as the changes in the employment of Ukrainians on our market, who can simply escape to other countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u71	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u72	As far as pensioners and pensioners are concerned, the valorization project has already been implemented. There is an allowance of PLN 70. As I recall, he, I think, will soon be proceded by the government. So that these measures have already been taken in the context of additional valorisation. [[In the budget?]] Please? [[In the budget?]] Yes. There is a bill that will be proceded by the government in the near future and the appropriations planned in the budget are provided for this. As far as the Labour Fund is concerned, we are actually treating all these measures as public funds. As the level of resources that are in the Labour Fund is increasing, we see no reason for some of the important public tasks to be financed through debt issues, i.e. from the budget. And since that is the case, the Minister of Finance uses all the tools available to it in the context of public finances to carry out some of these tasks. Besides, it's not the first time that's happened, and we're actually using different funds. Here we are not only talking about the Labour Fund, because in some cases there is, for example, the CEPiK Fund and there is the Physical Culture Development Fund. Firstly, there are sufficient resources to carry out the tasks to which these funds were created and, secondly, public funds which are de facto public revenue under the law, and therefore it is reasonable to use these funds to carry out certain tasks, of course, but in such a way that this does not result in the long-term inability to carry out the statutory tasks of these funds. When it comes to reducing contributions, of course. we monitor the contributions all the time, but as far as the Labour Fund is concerned, part of the contribution to the Labour Fund has been redirected to the so-called. solidarity fund, i.e. de facto, will reduce the resources for the Labour Fund. And that's one thing. The second thing is that we are indeed at the peak right now, but we also need to take into account that this economic situation is likely to start to decline soon, that macroeconomic indicators are likely to start to decline, and that is why the good situation that we now have in the various funds will start to deteriorate. So, as I say, we're monitoring contributions and stocks of funds, but we don't think it's right. In view of the fact that the best months are behind us, these contributions can be reduced at the moment. And the third question... If the senator could remind you, because a little... change... I'm not sure about the third question. [[The question is whether you agree with Senator Bierecki's view that these changes serve the benefit of the public budget, or whether you believe that these are revenues from citizens.]] In fact, these changes... They're so... But it is de facto not this law, it is the merger of this law with the budget law which, of course, increases the revenue for citizens, because expenditure is increasing. And this law de facto only changes the way these funds are distributed or changes the sources from which these funds are distributed. So when you compile whether by treating the budget law and around the budget together, you can say, as I said at the beginning, that of course these transfers to the population are increased, but the law itself today regulates what is happening within the financial sector, i.e. the issue of flows between funds, that is the question of expenditure from the state budget. So the law is more of a character, rather than a character that increases or reduces expenditure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u73	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u74	Minister, there's another question about what you're saying. I'd like you to clarify... You told the Minister that there was work to be done on the extra salary or the valorisation of the pensioner's salary. Somewhere on average, as you said, there will be 70 PLN more per pensioner. If you could say two more words about this... And from the questions... Minister, tell us if there is a difference between what we should pay from the budget when it comes to the social fund and what we pay. Because we have 2013 as a base, as I recall. And if we took 2018 to 2019, what's the difference? That's the first question. The other one, actually. And the third question, Minister, about the funds. Because we have this model: we have a good economic situation, we have good indicators of revenue for the funds, and we are therefore taking from these funds funds resources for other purposes which are not included in the fund. That's what we have... I will no longer mention all these funds, in the debate I will say a few words about this. Do you think it's right from the point of view of the strategy that when we have a good time, we're taking over funds for other purposes? And what will happen, as the Minister said, at a time when the economic downturn will occur and we will have much less funds and more needs? Where are we gonna get the money then? That's it for now. Because I have more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u75	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. As far as valorization is concerned, I'm not exactly familiar with the details here. I know it's supposed to be no less than 70 zlotys, but it's kind of outside of this valorization that's normally predicted... [[That's not less than 70 zlotys. And not more than how much?]] I don't know. I can't tell you. [[I think it's 1 thousand zlotys.]] I can't tell you. I may still be able to find out something during the meeting, but I can't tell you right now. And as for the difference between the total frostbite of the FAS and the state that we have today, it is over PLN 300 million. That is, if we were to defreeze at the level of 2018, it would be over PLN 300 million more expenses. But it doesn't include higher education. In addition, there is always a situation with the FCS that the issue is also discussed within the Council of Social Dialogue. And in this respect, the social parties do not agree, i.e. employers, of course, present a different position than trade unions, because the frosting of an establishment fund would, of course, also entail costs for employers. So that the total frostbite of what is frozen under the budget law That would be over PLN 300 million. And as far as the funds are concerned, as the senator put it, overeating the funds, it's hard to agree with the position that this is overeating the funds. Well, the approach is... I've talked about this a little bit before. The approach is that... maybe it's different. First of all, it's a bit of a state of mind. We have a mixed, budget-fund system, right? And now some of the tasks are carried out by the funds, some of the tasks are carried out by other financial sector entities, such as the executive agency, and of course a large part is carried out by the state budget. In a situation of economic well-being, there are some changes in relations in terms of budgetary opportunities and the possibilities of funds. And what happens to the Labour Fund, that is, the impact on the Labour Fund due to good economic condition and good indicators on the labour market, also allows other tasks to be carried out. Just like budget revenue. ♪ Except that ♪ Okay, I'll remind you. We still have a budget deficit. Therefore, in order to finance certain tasks, we must issue debt. The finance minister, treating the whole puzzle as actually one system, also benefits to some extent from funds that are being raised. And they're not overeating. They are used for equally important social purposes. Of course, in view of the fact that the economic situation will so say, exhaust or fall, we also know that funds in funds will probably not grow or may decrease. Therefore, the use of individual funds is so rational that it is safe for the long-term tasks of these funds. As I say, there is still a special situation in the Labour Fund that, in fact, despite the other tasks of this Fund, the funds in the Labour Fund are still growing. As to what Senator Rulewski was saying, it may be appropriate to consider here a reduction in the contribution, perhaps indeed, but, as I said, as we are already going through the economic summit or the economic summit, we do not consider it appropriate. In order to be able to withdraw from financing certain tasks from these funds and move back to debt financing... However, we are in favour of leaving such revenues to funds that will allow after the economic downturn to carry out strict statutory tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the article. 21. Our legislators had reservations about the introduction of this article at second reading, and I have a more general question. Well, as I understand it, this article is about the company Critical Applications, which in 2016, I remember, was designed for concrete actions. It was about sealing the system, about creating IT mechanisms that could facilitate the fight, for example. with VAT fraud. In a sense, it was supposed to be a purely innovative company, so to speak, and it had specific tasks. Once these tasks had been completed, it would have been resolved, possibly if she had not been able to do something, if her tasks had ended in this way, it would have been solved too. The question is, why do you now extend to this company... Well, you're giving her other tasks, very broad, possibly maximum possible. Namely, this is to maintain the expansion of the IT system for the operation of the state budget. I don't think there's much more to it than that when it comes to finance. And question two. How'd it go so far? Because it's just an episode article for 2019. The fact that he's in the budget bill is weird, too. Well, it's a different matter, it's just in this bill. The question is how it has been so far and why you are extending the tasks previously imposed on it by law and placed much more narrowly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u79	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u80	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! As the senator says, the real purpose of this company is to carry out the projects. And that's why she was called. For the National Tax Administration, which is primarily intended to seal the tax system. This article was introduced due to a rather specific situation as regards the system of handling the state budget. And here I would like to correct immediately that this possibility is being dealt with as narrowly as possible, because we are only here about the Trezor system, which is precisely used to serve the state budget. The point is that the contract with the service provider was terminated after the budget law had been constructed in the case of the Trezor system. We don't want there to be any interruption in the maintenance of this system, because this system must be very operational, i.e. in this system, the communication between the different controllers and the flow of resources is ongoing. Therefore, we have proposed, and that is why this is an episode recipe, so that until a new company can be identified, which will support the development and expansion of this system, the Critical Applications, which are kind of closest to us and which, as part of their resources and regardless of the projects they are doing, will be able to do so... The aim is for this company to be able only in 2019 to carry out tasks related to the operation of this single system, which must be fully operational. During this time, work will continue to be done on the selection of a new contractor, which is quite difficult when it comes to our public procurement system and those systems at the disposal of the Minister of Finance, and in particular the Trezor system, because unfortunately it is quite difficult to formulate the specification of the essential terms of the contract in such a way that the selection of the contractor is not based solely on the price or that the advantage of the criteria is not linked to the price, which unfortunately happened when it comes to the previous contractor. There are always references to the KIO and unfortunately such agreements must sometimes be concluded. So it's pretty hard, and we want to get ready for it so we don't have any trouble with this system. But, as I said, it's all about this year, and it's all about the operation of one budget system, the Trezor system. [[If you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u81	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u82	So the core business of this company, I would call it: statutory, resulting from the basic law remains unchanged, nothing is limited here...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u83	No, no, no. On the contrary, she's... Previously, there were allegations from the Supreme Board of Control that this company has few orders, little does. Now there are more than twenty few projects, as far as I know, another 13 are in preparation. So that no, the main purpose of this company is as defined in the Act, that is, the creation of systems for sealing taxes, and this is a provision, as well as those in the around budget bill, only an episode.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u84	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you don't mind, I'd like to ask for two more words about the spending rule. I asked the senator, but now I'd like to ask the minister... This, of course, is not so closely related to this law, that is what we will talk about in the context of the Budget Act, but some of its elements have an impact on what concerns the expenditure rule. I have two questions about this rule. I do not remember: are funds on the revenue and expenditure side included in the expenditure rule? That's the first question. And the other. For 2019, as I read... I don't know how much truth is in this, because I haven't analysed the budget for 2019.. If it's about the spending rule, is it kind of a deficiency here, in the sense of legal implementation, at the level of 3 billion, so we spend about 3 billion more than we usually spend? And a question about the Labour Fund. Minister, Labour Fund, changes in the fund... This is where the right minister has to give his consent. Why do you write in the Budget Act that changes in the Labour Fund at the level, I do not know, district or voivodeship must be approved by the Minister? What does that tell you? What logic? And one more question about the biofuels bill. She's put off every year like this. What's at the root of this? Why are you doing this? I don't think it's because of budget problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u86	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators! If it's about the funds and the spending rule, I'll say yes. The expenditure rule according to its construction does not include State-owned special-purpose funds, except for the Labour Fund, which has been legally included in this rule as such the largest fund. As I said, it is impossible to present a budget in a way in which expenditure exceeds the expenditure rule by any amount. All those amounts that are... Of course, we are talking de facto about the draft budget law. All these principles, which are required by the expenditure rule, have been respected. As regards changes to the Labour Fund, this provision in the Around Budget Act concerns changes to the Labour Fund plan, including the Centre for the Labour Fund . such changes where Union measures are replaced by national measures. At that time, the Minister of Finance's approval is needed and this is due to the fact that EU funds are neutral as regards the ESA methodology. This is a de facto deficit in the public finance sector. Each conversion of EU funds into national funds, even if we do not move quotas, and only replace one resource with another, e.g. By reducing the share of EU funds, the deficit of the public finance sector is increasing when spending them. The finance minister wants control over this aspect, and only in this part is it... This is not about changing the individual units that carry out the tasks of the Labour Fund. As far as biofuels are concerned, I know that this case is repeated every year. She really should be finally settled by... I don't think the oversight of this case has been determined. That's why it's happening. It is a matter of suspending the application of this provision. That the amendment of the Act established the Low-Emission Transport Fund and those tasks which were to be carried out under the rules set out here simply passed on to the Fund. Because there is a provision in the Act that requires a certain amount of money to be allocated to de facto the same task, as if we are repairing it by the around budget law. I think it just needs to be fixed systemically. Well, that's the only reason this recipe is here. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u88	There you go, Mr. Senator. You can ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u89	Minister, let's get this straight. If I have understood correctly, what concerns the transfer of funds under the Labour Fund or at the county level or voivodship level will be done according to the existing rules, and only what is related to the replacement of EU money or the action going the other way will require the approval of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u90	Yeah, that's exactly the same rule that's been applied before. The rules don't change here, either. We are talking about this central level, the main expenditure plan of the Labour Fund, which affects the deficit of the public finance sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u91	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question that's a little out of line. What about the task force budget? [[Voice from the hall: In the field.]] That's a very general answer I'd ask for. Are you working? You're not working?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u92	In a very general way, I would say this: by taking over the responsibility of the Minister responsible for budgetary matters, I was given a mandate from the Head, from the Minister of Finance, to bring about some further budgetary reform, which in fact involves a task budget. This task budget is created, but it's created a little bit next door. And now it looks like this second budget is doing a lot of work for the managers and the people who create it. In fact, we create 2 budgets that are somewhat incompatible with budget classification, comparing expenditures, functions, etc. Therefore, there is a concept that I would like to carry out as part of this fiscal reform. With this in mind, we have decided to create such a comprehensive project in the Ministry of Finance in order to develop changes in the financial system, because it is not only this that needs to be changed, there are still some elements that in public finances, well, functioning on very similar principles from the beginning, since the breakthrough, need to change, many things need to change. Now, however, the idea is that this task budget de facto should be included in the structure of the normal budget by changing the budgetary classification, i.e. do not create 2 separate documents, just do so so that what you see in the task budget can be seen in the ordinary budget. That means really... Well, depending on how we say, one can be replaced by another or vice versa. In any case, the point is that we have a budgetary classification that often does not give us a complete picture of what is happening in the public finance sector. This classification is once present, once subjective, once subjective and therefore does not give us a complete picture. We want to put this task budget in the framework of the ordinary budget primarily by changing the budgetary classification. That's how I see the future of the task force budget. I believe that both documents must be integrated at the level resulting from the classification, due to the change in the budgetary classification. It's a short story. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u94	I do not know if you and others have escaped the fact that in 2014 the Constitutional Tribunal ruled on the unconstitutionality of the act on guardians of children and adults. He said that this should be corrected immediately. It's been almost four years. At that time, this judgment was strengthened by the judgments of the general courts imposing obligations on the State Treasury, and I do not see that in this law the State in any way refers to the persistent and persistent evasion of the enforcement of that judgment and the judgments of the court. How long? I've got a question for you. You're going to owe this debt to those 150,000 people? I have another question: is it a pattern, perhaps not from this activity, a pattern, for example. The mining law, coal law, couldn't you give Black Friday to these people, for example, as a form of specific compensation for this constant expectation and constant promises?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u95	In general, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the budget bill on this issue cannot regulate, as I say. This is the matter of a law that technically decomposes certain things in the state budget itself. In fact, when it comes to the case of judgments and people with disabilities, this case has turned over, and so to speak, the media coverage of this issue was particularly analysed during the protest that took place in the Sejm. As a result, a new fund was created to support people with disabilities. He will be financed partly from taxes, and partly from redirected funds from the Labour Fund. I cannot say here whether one of the actions of this fund will not be the implementation of the tasks that you are talking about. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Family and Labour. During the financial year, the welfare benefits and individual benefits were valued and, as I say, a solidarity fund was created. But I'm not quite able to answer the question about the specific execution of the sentence. As I say, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Family and Labour. It is he who, in the context of this newly created fund, could present such information within his competence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you for your answers. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Tomasz Robaczyński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that this is the main discussion on state finances that we will have during the discussion of the draft budget law. Now a few comments and observations on the direction in which this law is going. On the basis of this, unfortunately, you can see in which direction the draft budget law will go. I will start with the issue of the social fund, the issue of the freezing that has been discussed here. Referring to history, it is necessary to say that it was during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party that the freezing process began, in a situation of great economic crisis not only Polish, but also European, global. As the Minister said, in order to resolve the problem of regulating social fund expenditure... This is a problem of 300 million PLN, Minister, as the Minister said. I would like to remind you, the High House, that you have joyfully passed almost PLN 2.5 billion on the settlement of obligations to miners in the context of the failure to pay the debt. Of course, you must regulate your obligations to citizens, so I do not expect an answer here, but I would like to point out, Minister, this issue to be considered: 2.5 A billion in December, quickly, within 1 day... the President has already waited, signed and 2.5 A billion dollars paid. And here we are talking about 300 million PLN to address the problem that arose during the crisis. I will quote the words of Senator Bierecki, chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, his favourite opinion from his previous term: let's reach for deep pockets. This is not about those people for whom the social fund is an important element, a source of higher standard of living. So, are we reaching? It turns out that 300 million PLN is an unsolvable problem. And to say that this is a budgetary problem, Minister, it's a joke. I mean, how do I read or hear that 40 billion, that 240 billion... I don't know how much you've already saved as a seal. Of course, sealing is a fact, but we can argue about the size of these measures. But 300 million zlotys? After all, Mr. Senator, this will also affect consumption. The citizens who get 300 million zlotys will not hide them in the bank, just... Well, what's the banking system like? I'm not sure what I'm talking about. We're starting to see it. I would like to say that this consumption will also be part of economic growth. So if you care about legal order, respect for the obligations that have arisen, for a certain continuity of these obligations, it would be important to consider very seriously whether... I mean, when are we supposed to settle these liabilities to the citizens for this $300 million? How will the economic crisis start again? No, because then there's no time to regulate it. And what Senator Rulewski was talking about today, that is, the issue of the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal ruling concerning the guardians of disabled persons. As I recall, there was an 800 million Senator in the budget, and this reminds me. For the implementation of this decision. Well, not only have you failed to comply with this ruling, it's still 800 million, so to speak, but it's embedded in general budget expenditure. For you, this problem is as if it does not exist. To quote you, I will say that a great element of good authority I'm not saying a good change is respect for the law and obligations towards citizens. If we require a citizen to pay taxes properly... Every meeting you make, you say to seal the system, not only for those who fail to comply with their obligations, but also for those who properly pay their taxes properly. In your opinion, they need to be sealed, so to speak. This is an ambiguous approach to the subject. These people will not come to strike like miners, so it is possible to postpone this every year and, as Senator Bierecki said, you cannot freeze so quickly because you can get indigestion. Now it's about funding from different funds. Ladies and gentlemen, how you read about the social benefits guarantee fund, the financing of specialisation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I have some peace, gentlemen? Mr. Marshal, I'm disturbed... [[I'm sorry. Calm down, please.]] Gentlemen... [[We listen and comment all the time.]] [[Don't comment. There you go.]] I believe, Senator, that you have a split personality, but I would very much like to ask for silence because it's a little disturbing. I'm sorry. [[Mr. Senator, get to the point.]] Yes, sir. Now it's about the funds. From various funds we finance various tasks that are not included in these funds. For example, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund will provide funding for specialisations, post-graduate medical professions, etc., and from the environmental fund for contributions to space agencies. Here we add a record of the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers. And here's the thought: there's a good situation in the funds, so we finance different budget tasks. Funds do not fall under the expenditure rule and therefore the quality of the budget is improved. In previous terms, Senator Bierecki has always said: it is creative accounting, it should not be done. I was hoping, Senator, that by preaching such wonderful things regarding the purity and clarity of the budget, you will also promote them in the new term of office. I'm not in favour of something that's written in the fund being inviolable. I agree with the Minister that it is practically state budget money. You have to take some kind of strategy, but not like this. We have saved for modernization of the Polish army... We don't know, obviously... The helicopters are here once, they're gone once. The minister says tomorrow there will be helicopters, but they are not. There's a surplus left and something needs to be done. So what do we do? We'll buy helicopters for the police and the fire department. And we have a 2% factor. GDP for defence. Well, you can do that once. I agree, things are different in life. But it's already become a rule. The same method is used for the third year in a row. There's a good situation in the funds, so money goes to other jobs. Now the most beautiful thing. There is a task under which we will finance the preparation of Polish players, Polish staff for the Olympics and the European and World Championship from the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture. Of course, it is important that Polish athletes have adequate funding, but, Minister, since you are talking about such ideas, I want to tell you that any amount of money that can be directed towards supporting the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture, which goes to children and young people, is always completely inadequate. Any amount of money could be invested here. Poland does not yet have the best European or global indicators concerning the number of people active in sports clubs, and the state finances staff preparation from this fund. I believe that the staff should be supported financially, but there is a Polish National Foundation. Why couldn't the national foundation support what is involved in preparing national staff to represent Poland in various kinds of competitions? I know why. Because it's better to fund a campaign about a judge stealing pants or deciding that a guy's going on a cruise all over the world. More than PLN 600 million from the national foundation is devoted to various kinds of ideas which have nothing to do with promotion. And if you were to spend that money, for example. For the preparation of the national staff, that would be a tangible effect. Such solutions are very dangerous. And now, when it comes to funds, Minister, let me give you an example. - Time. - Okay, I'm gonna be out of here in a minute. The Labour Fund. Just like the Minister... [[It's over.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm just finishing the thought of not coming back twice. Besides, I'm gonna need five minutes, 'cause I know no one's home. Oh, no, it is. I'm sorry. [[But I'm gonna step down.]] It's an example of the Labor Fund. You are again financing various tasks from the Labour Fund, which do not result directly from the tasks assigned to the Fund. And please note: today we have unemployment at a rate of 5.9% , less than 6%, i.e. there are about 600 000 or 700 000 unemployed, i.e. looking for, more or less actively, jobs. The deficit of working hands is enormous, which can be seen from the number of people from other countries who have to support the Polish economy. And we have, Minister, 5 million 700,000 people who are not professionally active at all, that is 25.3%. persons aged 18 to 60 Four years. This is one of the highest indicators in Europe. The Germans are 17.9%. Put your resources on this task to activate these people. Not unemployed people who register, but those who are inactive. We have the worst coefficients. So if we're about 1 million hands short today, that should be the goal, not the financing of different budget tasks to improve our indicators. We've got a good job at the Labour Fund, and we're financing each other... Well, it takes a moment to think about an important matter, Minister, to ask yourself questions. If it's economical, first of all, how much do you want to save for the bad times? How, secondly, can we make the most of what is today's economic and financial boom? And thirdly, how will we function in various kinds of projects in the future when the economic crisis occurs? Because he's inevitable, sooner or later, hopefully as soon as possible. This shows that this draft budget is heading towards creative accounting, reaching into pockets. And finally, the last sentence. Now also what you asked Senator Rulewski. I think he's going to say a few more words about this, 70 PLN minimum for pensioners and pensioners, and if I know life, it's going to be 75 PLN. I'm not in favour of a quick hand when he's in the budget. But think about it... Well, 70 zł, even for pensioners, as a minimum basis is a little, to put it mildly, unserious. And that's why I'm telling you again that this is going in the wrong direction. The outcome is good, and the effectiveness of managing Polish money is really weak and not giving prospects for the near future. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u98	Thank you. [[...for understanding, especially.]] I understand we've combined these two speeches into one. [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You must be careful of Senator Black's speech. [[...baja.]] ...baja, because after he did, half of the PiS escaped from the audience for fear not to take polemics. I don't think I'm gonna cause that kind of havoc. Three or four more... four of you left. Nevertheless, I would like to make a substantive statement. I will start by saying that there have actually been significant changes in social policy in many areas. But I can't be satisfied to the full, because these changes are uneven, I would say that unfairly, things are neglected. I am going to talk about this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal four years ago. And that's what I told every government. I do not know if the effect of this was that already in 2015 a reserve of 800 million PLN was left for the execution of the ruling. Today this amount is already much more. Besides, it was not enough at the time. Today it reaches PLN 2.3 billion. But the question is: Not only about financial but also legal issues: how are you going to regulate this country? Repeat. And as Senator Czarnobaj said, You found such an Easter solution, such a Black Friday for the Rentists, who were supposedly taken, although not entirely true, coal. But to people who are in a much worse situation, who don't have coal because they only get benefits... They, giving up working for care of disabled loved ones, get 520 zlotys. And for four years, the state hasn't been able to take it. Even reminders of common courts that create even greater... I remember this discussion: we have to do this Black Friday for the miners, because we're going to be oppressed by common courts. And now somehow these common courts, your common courts, are not afraid. Maybe that's because they're yours. And that is why I strongly demand that these decisions be implemented in the near future. The second problem, Minister, is also painful and hurtful. A painful problem, which the whole of Europe notes, is the problem of a maintenance, or actually of non-alimentation. Only 10 and 15% out of 1 million children is protected by this fragile sum. We have reached a European record for maintenance. I mean both this problem of state aid and this process in which you no longer participate, as if you did not want to solve this problem. There is a bill prepared, the threshold will be raised, but this threshold will, as you know, be out of date next year. It's about 800 zlotys. This is the second problem, particularly painful in a country that is appointed a country of Christian culture. We are accusing a Europe where these problems do not occur that it is unchristian, and it is we who cannot protect our children. The third problem is, of course, the growing problem of pensioners. As I can see, it is solved in the style of the coalition LPR, Self-Defense and PiS. This is the one-time thing. Well, we want this pensioner to live for more than one year, so we need a systemic pension solution with this, I'd say, medium wallet. You really are making changes in these benefits, these lowest pensions. This is desirable, although I do not know whether the method of moving funds from best or medium-term pensioners, where the highest percentage is, towards these lowest benefits is a fair method. I would like to point out that the money paid to the pension fund is public money, but there are even different subsidies. But that doesn't mean you have unlimited power over these resources. In this way, you are breaking long-term social agreements. The Labour Fund. A few words to explain: the situation is good because the economy has actually revived and indeed unemployment has decreased significantly. Let's just get into the structure of this unemployment. Minister, it's obviously not your role, it's the Minister of Labour and Social Policy who's on TV. We've actually got five, six percent. unemployment, but let's see what unemployment is like. This is chronic unemployment of people who have not taken up any activity for at least a year, and on average for 2 years. Activating these people is not an easy task. And if we assume that we're dealing with the so-called. Hidden unemployment... I think this is particularly of interest to those PiS senators who come from rural areas. Yeah, there's even an ex-Chief of Trade Unions here. That's where the unemployment is hidden. And you know, ladies and gentlemen... Well, we all know that. I'm sure Senator Bierecki knows even better than I do, which results in low unemployment. That's because practically no one is registering. Because what do you get at this employment office? An amount less than even the homeless's allowance. If we were to adopt European average standards Perhaps even less than average It's half of Poland that would be unemployed. So this is a false statistic. And the second argument is that unemployment is less, because it's just a loss of people at the age of 18, ready to get a job. I'm not talking about permanent labour emigration anymore. So this structure needs to be kept in mind. You really need to manage this fund well, not spend it... not hide it under... You can't have any with him, because again... Minister, I think you're aware of that because you... You even seem to know it well, unlike for example. Mr. Senator Bierecki, who knows it well, but that's not what Senator Bierecki says. It's true, isn't it? You know these matters perfectly well, and you know that about this unemployment This is the situation of false statistics. The moves are here... They could be violent. It is related either to Brexit, or to opening borders for foreigners, or to the need for further activation. You, too, Minister, especially you, maybe less than Senator Bierecki this time, not to speak ill of Senator... You know perfectly well that you cannot create financial Potemkin houses, i.e. when we say that we have the Labour Fund, but it is a hidden form of taxation, because we spend these funds for contradictory purposes, not only incompatible with this labour market law, without taking into account the promotion of employment, but we issue them in a way that I would say, completely voluntary, casual, on request, and this is the Church, and maybe Jan Rulewski Which is not true, though, because none of the ministers listened to me in this regard... And it's out of control, Minister! What kind of country is it in which we set up a fund for certain purposes, we call the council of this fund, we take the money from the employers, and then, as it was, underground, as it was in the era of Solidarity, we spend it for completely different purposes? This is an outrageous state, and you should be ashamed of yourself right now. [[Mr. Senator, it's 10 minutes.]] Yes. So, five more? No. Finally, I call very strongly for this Black Friday to actually be arranged against these huge surpluses that come from the failure of titles for the sake of... the execution of titles by the Constitutional Tribunal in connection with the expectations of pensioners, pensioners and unattended persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Of course, the Around Budget Act is preparing, so to speak, the ground for the final decisions that we will take when adopting the budget. It is always necessary and always raises big discussions, because she has some issues only I don't know if he's already preaching. I would like to refer here to Article 27, which speaks of the Labour Fund. I asked Senator Bierecki about it, unfortunately I had to leave and I didn't hear the full answer. But this case, which the Minister raised here, I would also like to raise, following what Senator Rulewski said. Namely, the state is pleased that you provide funds for the good remuneration of employees of employment offices, especially those who show high efficiency in their activities. We created this system in the framework of the amendment of the law, it was received differently, but after a year of operation monitoring showed that, however, it strongly motivates employees. And I think that if that's what these measures are supposed to do, then let's go in that direction. Because what is our situation today? I'm already referring to the Minister's speech here. Namely, we have a certain surplus in the Labour Fund. And in view of the multitude of tasks that we would like to accomplish, and yet the deficit budget, there is a temptation not to put aside any money if they are needed elsewhere. However, I have been paying attention here quite recently, when we were talking about the solidarity fund, which is to be part of it, and a large one, financed precisely by the Labour Fund, that we must not confuse tasks. 'Cause if it were, that money from the Labour Fund would be used for work offices for action. And they've got it in their business. In relation to the employment of disabled people, that would be logical, it would be consistent. It is important to remember that we have one of the lowest employment rates for people with disabilities in Europe. Meanwhile, we have transferred this money to the rehabilitation of people with disabilities, including social rehabilitation, which is not aimed at employment, but at self-service. These are all kinds of tournaments, trips, etc. All this is needed, but often not related to the opportunities of people with disabilities in the labour market. That's why, Minister... I wouldn't mention it, but the Minister mentioned it, and it provoked a little bit of my speech. I would like to raise the question that the funds that are in the labour fund accounts, the money that is there, should be used quickly, because we have huge problems in the labour market. And at the same time there are still nearly 1 million people who do not work and should work. They don't work because they're long-term unemployed, they're disabled, they're people who need to be activated paradoxically. A lot of money, well, wisely invested. Meanwhile, social cooperatives are increasingly closing their doors, although they, together with centres of social inclusion, should serve the activities of those who cannot be immediately introduced into the labour market for various reasons: because they are out of their addictions because they have other problems, including mental illness, etc. These are very difficult cases, requiring individual action and the involvement of big money. Minister, I'm interested in the labour market and the work force. There are many of them who, if they had more money and more opportunities to act, would be able to work on the labour market, to the joy of entrepreneurs waiting for workers... would be able to make good use of this money. In the meantime, I'd pay attention. Because I know that the Ministry always cares about the efficiency of using public funds to be firm here. This money shouldn't be in the accounts when we have these problems in the labour market. The same is very interesting in itself. Therefore, I believe that the acquisition of this fund is not only, as Senator Rulewski said a moment ago, a breach of a certain social contract, that these 2,45% of wages are to return to companies in the form well prepared for the work of workers. Really, if this money were to invest in good training, training and activation of the unemployed on a larger scale and better suited to the needs of the labour market, we would all benefit from it and, above all, the fiscus. Well, not just that, but because more workers would pay more taxes than their wages. In addition, there is still a lack of an appropriate programme of support for the guests whom the Polish economy needs very much, guests from other countries, whom we should call and so we should treat, and so we should support, in order to keep them here. We know that at the end of the year, for example. The German market will open for workers from Ukraine. What then? That money would be how he found it if we had good programs for it. And I wanted, Minister, to pay attention to the need in this area, to encourage the Ministry to use all instruments and to ensure the effective use of those money which I believe should not lie there in situations where we have such needs in the labour market. However, this is an unhealthy situation and should not be preserved.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u102	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda... [[The Minister should respond.]] There were no legislative proposals. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The text of the Act is contained in print No 974, and the report of the Commission In print No 974 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honour to present a report to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Act amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act is a government submission which was the subject of a committee meeting on 16 November 2018. The purpose of the Act is to implement into Polish legislation the provisions of Directive 2009/103/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on insurance against civil liability arising from the use of motor vehicles and the enforcement of insurance obligations against such liability. According to that Directive, every 5 years from 11 June 2005 or at the end of the transitional period until 11 June 2012 at the latest, the amounts of minimum guarantee amounts in compulsory civil liability insurance for motor vehicle holders for damage caused by the movement of such vehicles and the compulsory civil liability insurance of farmers for holding a holding of a holding shall be reviewed taking into account the index of consumer prices. These amounts are adjusted automatically and raised to the size... by a percentage change indicated by the harmonised indices of consumer prices for the relevant period and rounded up to EUR 10 000... to a multiple of EUR 10 000. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Points 3 and 4 of this submission propose to amend the minimum guarantee amounts in accordance with the mechanism provided for in that Directive. These amounts are set as follows. In the case of personal injury, the previous amount was EUR 5 million, currently EUR 5 million EUR 210 000 for one event, the consequences of which are covered by insurance, regardless of the number of victims. In the case of damage to property from EUR 1 million, the amount increases to EUR 1 million 50 000 for one event, the consequences of which are deducted by insurance, regardless of the number of victims. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 in item 2 of the novel was added to the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances Art. 14a indicating that in the event of a dispute between the Insurance Guarantee Fund and the insurance undertaking concerning the determination of which one is obliged to pay compensation to the injured party, payment shall be made by the insurance undertaking immediately, no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of the damage act from the Insurance Guarantee Fund. If, after such payment, the liability of the Insurance Guarantee Fund is established in whole or in part, the Insurance Guarantee Fund will be obliged to reimburse the insurance undertaking for the compensation paid or part thereof and the costs incurred. Ladies and gentlemen, at the stage of the Parliament's work, the law was not controversial. 218 Members voted in favour of the bill, there were 5 votes against, 1 abstention. At the committee meeting, the law raised virtually no doubts. She was adopted unanimously. There were five votes in favour, no votes against, and no one abstained. The only issue raised during the committee's meeting was whether the amendment of the law would not result in an increase in insurance premiums for policyholders. The Minister present at the committee meeting explained that during the consultation and work on the bill there were discussions with Polish insurers. As such huge amounts of compensation are very rare, the insurance industry does not foresee an increase in insurance costs and the transfer of these costs to entities or policyholders. In fact, this was the only issue raised. As regards the opinion of the Legislative Office, the law does not raise any legislative doubts. I propose on behalf of the committee that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u105	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you something. The first question is: will the increase in guarantee sums affect insurance companies' costs in the longer term? Second question. They've been partially answered here, but I'd like to request confirmation. Will the regulation affect the level of OC insurance for farmers? I understand that this was the subject of the committee's work. There was talk of insurance. I understand the farmers will take care of that, too. Thank you. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u106	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u107	Thank you. Mr Senator, as I said, this was basically the only issue raised during this meeting, the issue of possible cost increases, as it were translated, the transfer of the costs of amending the law to policyholders or policyholders, because such insurance is mentioned here. The Ministry declared that... During discussions and consultations on this government submission with the insurance community, the Ministry received a reply from insurance companies that the insurance costs would not be transferred to private individuals and policyholders. As I understand it, this will not result in any increased expenditure, because we are talking about raising the top amounts when it comes to damage. This is an increase of about 5% , according to the increase in the consumer price index. I don't know how the Minister here... will this question be repeated to the Minister. However, it appears from the committee meeting that this will not translate into an increase, so to speak, the necessary costs incurred by insurance companies and insured persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u108	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with strengthening supervision of the financial market and the protection of investors in this market. The text of the law is contained in print No. 997 and the report of the committee In print No 997 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 16 November, the Commission examined the Law amending certain laws in view of strengthening financial market supervision and investor protection in this market. The Act is contained in print No. 997. It was a government project. A representative of the Minister of Finance was authorised to present his position. The Sejm passed a law at its 70th first meeting on 9 November. It was transferred to the Senate on 13 November. As I said, on 16 November, the committee produced a report after a long, thorough discussion. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. During the discussion at the committee meeting, representatives of the Polish Banks Association and the National Association of Cooperative Banks presented their positions. Letters were also received with comments from the Association of Stock Exchange Issuers, the Conference of Financial Companies in Poland, the Chamber of Brokerage Houses and above all, That's where I'm supposed to start counting. The National Bank of Poland. Representatives of the Commission for Financial Supervision and the Banking Guarantee Fund also spoke during the meeting. After the discussion, after discussing the amendments proposed in the opinion presented by the Legislative Bureau, the committee adopted a resolution, as I mentioned, recommending that the Senate adopt a law without amendments. So much for my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u110	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u111	Has the committee taken into account and analysed the new situation related to the disclosure of the KNF president's conversation with the owner of the private banks, where the owner indicated that there were any corruption proposals, and in the background of these proposals was also the implementation of this law? Was this matter the subject of the committee's attention?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u112	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u113	Thank you very much. Yes, at the very beginning of the sitting by one of the Senators of the Civic Platform by Senator Kleina to name A request for failure to consider this law was presented at the meeting. As a justification for this proposal, a transcript from the recording of the interview between President Chrzanowski and Mr Leszek Czarnecki was just presented by the Gazeta Wyborcza. The Commission did not agree with this proposal. Discussion... In fact, aside from Senator Kleina's statement, this issue has not been discussed. For my part, I can add, because I have requested that Senator Kleina's request be rejected, that I believe that, in line with what Mr Grabiec has said in public, Mr Grabiec, who has expressed his views on this issue as a spokesman for the Civic Platform, which is interpreted from this transcript as a proposal for corruption, because the content of this discussion does not contain any proposal for corruption... It is in the story to this transcript presented by Mr Czarnecki's representative. The idea being interpreted from this transcript was to stop working on this bill in exchange for a bribe. Therefore, I believe that withholding the work on the bill would be to meet the expectations of those who, if the authorities of the state find it, were involved in possible corruption. We are working on a law which, as the current Deputy Minister of Finance explained at the meeting, Mr Piotr Nowak is essential for the sustainability of public finances and is linked to the expiry date of association agreements for cooperative banks. It will probably be explained more widely by the Minister, but in my speech too, not as rapporteur, I will address this issue, because for me it is important for other reasons which I will not explain in the report, because they were not discussed by the committee. If the corruption proposal was based on this... If the point of this corruption proposal was to stop work on the bill in exchange for a bribe, then the committees shouldn't hold back the work on the bill, and the Senate, as a whole, shouldn't hold back the work on the bill. It is perhaps detrimental to some investors operating in the financial market in Poland, perhaps it is also detrimental to Mr Leszek Czarnecki, although it does not result from this transcript that I have read. However, these are not the reasons why, while weighing on the stability of the financial sector, the safety of savings would be to hold back the work on this law. Besides, as your marshal pointed out in the discussion on Senator Klich's motion to remove this bill from the agenda, the Senate is not in a position to suspend the work on the bill. We're bound by deadlines. After all, not taking a position by the Senate against the bill means that the law will apply in the version that came out of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u114	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'd like to ask you a question about what the senator said about corruption, as I understand it. Those who, indifferently, from whom they were from, do not get into it for the time being, so as not to expand the subject They were talking about corruption... Well, they wanted this bill not to enter into force, as I understand it, because this bill is supposed to improve financial stability. Do I understand the senator correctly? All I'm asking for is confirmation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u116	This is the way I presented my understanding with Mr Grabce, the spokesperson for the Civic Platform, who said it exactly. I quoted his statement at the committee meeting. I personally do not see in this transcript, I do not find confirmation for any corruption offer. However, if it appears as interpreted from the rules, if it appears in the sphere of public debate, it appears exactly in such a form, i.e. it is to be a bribe in exchange for not adopting the law. I am therefore surprised at the requests for this bill to be removed from the agenda. I was also surprised at the request that the committee should not deal with this law in its sitting. For this reason, I have requested that Senator Kleina's motion be rejected, which the committee has accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u117	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u118	Mr. Senator, do you know that the Marshal of the Sejm has withdrawn the Bank Guarantee Fund Act from this agenda, in which there is an analogy, in principle the same provision concerning the possibility of taking over banks? Do you know that? [[No, I'm learning about this incident from your marshal.]] I'm asking... [[I saw it on the agenda this morning, so...]] No, it's not on the agenda of the Sejm. And such suggestions that those who thought that this law should not be prosecuted today or at this meeting could be allies of corruption... Well, at least for Marshal Kuchciński, not for the opposition, because I know that the senator has the worst opinion about us, and for the withdrawal of this bill... Well, it's awkward. [[That was the question, wasn't it? I'd be happy to answer that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u119	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u120	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal asked for a different bill, of course. We're going to process the bill right now, and I'll remind you. On the amendment of the laws in connection with the strengthening of the supervision of the financial market, contained in print No 997. The Bank Guarantee Fund Act is another law and my comments were not relevant to this issue. I would ask that we discuss this law, which concerns my report. As for your remark about the fact that I have the worst opinion of the opposition senators, I deny it. I deny it. Some I even like. [[Thank you. But I don't know if it's yet...]] [[Not applicable...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u121	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u122	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I actually have a question about the opposition senators' questions. You didn't want, I understand, to expand this thread; you'll probably be taking the floor on this. You mentioned that the committee was being signaled... The Ministry of Finance had a clear signal. And all the members of the budget committee know that. That the urgency of the work on this law stems from these cooperative banks' agreements. The cooperative movement is also, so to speak, well known to you, Mr. Senator. I would like you to expand your information on what would have ended if, in fact, contrary to the constitution and the Senate's Rules of Procedure, the Marshal had suspended his work on this law, which he had no right to do. And he was right to respond to such a request by Mr Klich to the Senate marshal, a motion to suspend the work of this law. And that is the answer Mr Klich received. That's one thing. I would like to hear something about the expiry of association agreements and the consequences of this, if we had not passed this law or if it had not entered into force. Second line. I'd also like to... If you would, Mr. Senator... I don't know if it was at the committee meeting. I mean, if I remember correctly, something was mentioned there. Because the opposition senators are very concerned about Polish banks, about the Polish banking system, and at the same time in the current situation, so to speak, they are adding gasoline. How can this affect the system, the perception of the Polish banking system, which has actually been assessed as one of the most stable European banking systems by external entities? This is the second point: how can this affect? And there's a third thing I'd like to ask you, but maybe these two so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u123	Thank you very much. I answer your question: the association agreements on the basis of which security systems are created within cooperative bank groups, in the case of the Poznań cooperative bank, the Bank Group expires on 23 November, according to the information we received at the meeting and for BPS Bank At the end of the year. That's what we got. Therefore, the published letter of the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, Mr Chrzanowski, who pointed out 14 cooperative banks in the interests of the security of cooperative banks, which may not be covered by new agreements or renewed protection systems agreements. That's 14 cooperative banks. That's how much is indicated in the letter. which may or may not have refused to accept this association agreement, or which do not fulfil the conditions for the conclusion of that agreement. That's where it came from... And this is clearly shown in the letter by President Chrzanowski. Hence the urgent solution to this problem. And that's why the amendment that we're talking about is so loud. So we have the dates here on November 23rd and the end of the year, as Minister Nowak pointed out, without remembering precisely what date it is, but now it is the end of November and all these deadlines are very close. Can you apply to these cooperative banks the provisions of another law, this law on the resolution of banking problems... sorry, based on the so-called. Bank Troubleshooting Directive, BRR Directive. There's a certain cut-off of the size of the assets. In order to carry out the so-called. resolution, i.e. resolving the banking problem on the basis of these directives, must meet the so-called condition. the importance of this bank to the sector or to the public interest in reaching for such tools. This level, as the minister told us at the committee meeting, is 3 billion assets... [[In euros.]] Yeah, counting in euros. Thank you so much for the hint. He also participated in the meeting. If the institution has more than EUR 3 billion, the European Commission's unitary agreement to carry out such an operation is required. Below EUR 3 billion you can obtain permission to carry out this operation and consequently the existence of public aid... In the event of the mobilisation of the Banking Guarantee Fund, a certain programme may be obtained collectively for a group of entities... Hence Mr KNF's letter. Minister, if I have said something wrong, you will have the opportunity to correct it, but I believe I am faithfully transmitting the information we received during the meeting. For these dozen banks, the solution that currently exists in the law, without adopting this regulation, is either bankruptcy or the use of a resolution formula, except that it is more complicated, as I said, and requires proper notification in the case of the use of public aid, the existence of public aid. This solution, which is contained in such a widely discussed amendment, allows, through the Commission's decision of the Financial Supervision Authority, to merge banks on the basis of the agreement of the acquiring bank, and thus very smoothly resolve this problem, without turbulence, without consequences resulting from bankruptcy, i.e. without the need to mobilise deposits from the Banking Guarantee Fund. This was the basis for this amendment during our meeting and this explanation was given to us by Minister Nowak. Of course, the representatives of cooperative banks present at the meeting were a representative of the National Association of Cooperative Banks, and the former President of the Polish Bank of Apex, also pointed out in their speeches some concerns about the environment of cooperative banks connected with the adoption of these regulations, although its representatives participated in the consultation. The representative of the National Association of Cooperative Banks said that he had participated in the consultation on this regulation, he merely pointed out that cooperative banks should not be taken over by commercial banks, that the cooperative nature of these banks should be maintained, and that there should be a special road in the law when it comes to taking over cooperative banks, a road which means that these banks will only be taken over by other cooperative banks. This met with the response of the representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission and the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund, who pointed to the uncertainty about the willingness of other cooperative banks to take over such cooperative banks in difficulty. Therefore, supervision would like to have broad powers to conduct discussions with all banking institutions operating on our market, not to have a limited group of interlocutors only to cooperative banks. So much for association issues. The impact on safety... I think it's from everything I've said in my speech. This amendment undoubtedly serves to increase the safety of financial turnover, the security of the financial market in Poland. To be precise, it serves to protect the deposits and interests of depositors.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u124	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I disagree with Senator Grabowski, who says the opposition is pouring gasoline into the fire. Mr. Senator, we are here discussing people who have worked hard and deposited enormous money from this hard work. I'm glad the Senator rapporteur started talking about this seriously, because this is serious. My question to you, Senator: don't you think the matter is finally ripe for your leadership to... And you're an influential person in these matters. Don't you think the case is ripe enough to broadcast a communiqué to the public? 'Cause I think it's about time, and say, no more guarantees about your money...' Address society in this way: today, in place of the former head of the KNF, we do not give a man appointed by our party, we give a man who is an authority who will not date people making various proposals. In an objective way, we must admit that today there is a discussion in the country on this subject. Mr. Senator Grabowski, party colors don't count here, this is serious. The public is waiting for answers that are clear, obvious and true, and as the prosecutor will determine, we will find out in time. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Can I ad vocem, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u126	Ad vocem? [[Out of mode, you can...]] [[Senator Komarnicki, because...]] There's no procedure. [[No mode, no mode.]] You may ask another question, but let's let the president answer first.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u127	Thank you very much. The Financial Stability Committee, Mr Senator, has yet to meet on Sunday and issued a communication to ensure the safety of the accumulated savings, ensuring that the situation is observed by the authorised institutions that form a security network in the financial market, i.e. by the National Bank of Poland, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bank Guarantee Fund, and the Ministry of Finance. The Financial Stability Committee. I think it was a very important announcement, so reassuring. These banks are under supervision, these banks have the guarantee of the Banking Guarantee Fund. In addition, we also received information about the readiness of the National Bank of Poland to provide liquidity to these banks. It was all in the Financial Stability Committee's communication. As regards the Head of the Financial Supervision Commission, under the Surveillance Act, the person performing his duties at the moment is the Vice-President appointed by the Prime Minister, Mr Pachulski, whose professionalism no one is questioning. This is the long-term Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, as well as an excellent lawyer, so the Head of the Financial Supervision Committee is a person who certainly meets the eligibility requirements set out in the Act and who is not charged with any charge. Now let me say something about these charges, about the quality of these charges. It seems to me that it is too easy to believe people who have used lies many times in the past. I would like to remind you that here we are dealing with statements by a man running banking companies that are of interest and concern to the Financial Supervision Committee. The Financial Supervision Authority has issued a statement that it considers this action to be an attempt to influence the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority. After all, almost in parallel with the publication of these tapes we were dealing with the inclusion of one of Mr. Czarnecki's banks in the list of warnings. It's a special story. The first bank to appear on the list of warnings to the Financial Supervision Authority. So far, such lists have included companies that were financial pyramids. This is worth paying attention to. So not so long ago... [[Voice from the room: Lithuanian...]] Lithuanian, yes. The head of the Lithuanian central bank after three years of fighting for his good name, after being accused by one of the oligarchs of demanding bribery, cleared himself of these allegations. Thus, in matters relating to the supervision and regulation of the financial market, we cannot be too keen to pass judgments, because cases do not necessarily look as they are presented by one party. That's what I'd like to say to you, to be gentle, because I know you're listening to this well-known patron who would be happy to sue me. But I am obliged to answer the questions and speak according to my best knowledge and my honesty. [[I didn't put oil in the fire, did I, Senator rapporteur?]] No, no, Mr. Senator. Well, we have to worry about that, of course. There's something to worry about. But, you know, I personally have reason not to believe much of what's in there on this transcript, because, as you know and what you've already proven, the Gazeta Wyborcza, I didn't want to invest in this bank, just the foundation... [[Foundation.]] ...and it wasn't supposed to be a place, it was a technical account. It's all been written. And what's left of that, of me coming in there, negotiating? And what was I supposed to come with as a senator of the Republic, who is subject to special regulations of the Anti-Laundering of Money Act, like everyone here in the Chamber? Each of our operations is recorded, not only in the case of ordinary citizens above a certain amount. Our operations are all recorded. And what, and this, 60 million or 70 million... what, on the wheelbarrow was I supposed to bring? And if this was supposed to be a transfer from another bank, this is money laundering? But I assure you, I wasn't there. That is why I have particular reasons to question the truth of this whole transcript and to wonder what the purpose of this action really is and what the benefits of this man's action are. I've read information that maybe this is about taking advantage of the possibility of international arbitration. For six months Mr. Czarnecki has delayed the publication of these tapes. He waited for six months, but during that time he was fulfilling the supervisory demands that required him to... supervision obliged him to recapitalisation the bank. 200 million share capital took over this period. But it covered the 200 million, which is interesting, through its company registered in the Netherlands. Let me remind you that as far as arbitration is concerned, based on mutual investment agreements, the Polish experience of arbitration with Eureko is based on the Dutch agreement. That's enough to draw attention to certain circumstances that may have escaped public opinion. This could be an explanation for this corpse. The final coverage of the emissions was probably on 12 October. The last issue was covered on 12 October, so relatively shortly before the transcripts were made public. These are things that are worth considering in this debate. I think you senators understand the gravity of the situation. Perhaps many people unwittingly play a role in the theater that has been prepared here. I am deeply concerned about one sentence that I read in this transcript and which I disagree with. This is a passage in which Mr Chrzanowski, perhaps in the whirlwind of such a social conversation, confirms that Mr Sokal's plan In some sense it follows from the law that we adopt is illegal. Perhaps he was speaking on the basis of the rules that existed at the time, the talk is from March. We're making the law now. If this plan is implemented, it will be legal. [[All the worse for this law.]] That is not the conclusion I draw, because what we should care about is the customers of these banks, not their owner. I think it's more important to us that we take care of our clients, not investors. Of course, I can see the senator nodding his head, but in the hierarchy of importance. I don't think any of us have any doubts about that. The interests of customers, citizens, consumers are the most important interests that we should protect by preparing a good law. There are circumstances that allow me to question these transcripts, and maybe not so many transcripts as theories based on these transcripts, which are overwritten over these transcripts. There are also circumstances that allow me to warn your senators not to go into the scenario that someone has prepared for this operation with their statements. And the fact that he was prepared, we have confirmed, because Mr. Czarnecki's attorney said that Mr. Czarnecki was well prepared for the operation to reveal all this, also businessly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u129	Mr. Senator, I have listened calmly to your report on the section on the committee meeting. I understand what the last 15-minute speech was about wasn't at the committee meeting. He came from your needs to... [[Questions.]] Nobody asked if anyone registered in the Netherlands had any companies, companies or arbitration. Nobody asked me that. There's a lot of things you've presented that no one's asked, but I've been happy to hear from you. And it confirms me, Mr. Senator, in the belief that we should remove this bill from the order of today's sitting and return to it in an atmosphere of peace. Senator, please understand, we are not talking about the fact that we, as Senate, do not want to deal with this bill. I'd like to ask... There are opinions that if we hadn't dealt with this bill at this meeting, we would have broken the constitution. First of all, I'd like to ask I don't know if the senator agrees. What article of the Constitution are we going to break if we don't consider this bill today? That's one thing. If it turned out that the Senate had decided that there was so much confusion that it could not be considered, which article of the Constitution would have been broken? That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Senator, after what you said, I have one more thing... That'll be two questions. I'm sorry. You said that the cooperative banks gave an opinion on this bill. [[The National Association of Cooperative Banks, yes.]] Tell me at which point the National Association of Cooperative Banks gave an opinion on the amendment by Mr... [[Voice from Smolinski's room.]] ...Smolinski. At what point did you get your opinion on this? Because we're not talking about the whole bill, we're talking about this amendment. At what point did a bank come forward in this matter? That's the first question. Besides, Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you something else. Well, you said that if we were talking about the KNF, we were talking about the peace here, about the seriousness of it. It deals with a problem, puts the bank on the list of banks in difficulty, and considers the situation of the financial entity in general, which is a cause for concern and should be considered deeply. I'd like to ask you if you remember the KNF chief's information about the SKOKs. Do you remember that? Now I would just like to ask you if you remember this, and in the debate I will refer to it. And one more thing. [[The voice from the room: Who said that...]] Oh, look who's talking, it's right over there... You've said about these expiry dates for cooperative banks associations, these two existing... [[Yes.]] Was it the only way? I am talking about the record proposed by Mr Smolinski So that these banks can get a new deadline, or do they have, like, new opportunities for associations? Was that the only way? Could it have been different to extend this period, otherwise to deal with this subject? What is your opinion on this? Was this the subject of the debate? Did you ever talk about this at the committee meeting? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u130	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u131	Thank you very much. Two lines. The first concerns the cooperative savings and credit banks you asked about. Yes, I remember this debate very well. I know why she was led. I remember when and why she was being followed. At the committee meeting, the issue of cooperative savings and credit banks was indeed raised. An analogy was indicated between those provisions to be introduced by this law and the existing rules that are in force in the cooperative credit and savings banks sector. Those rules we're talking about are also important for you senators to know. According to the information presented by the Minister, they were in force in Poland for 19 years, from 1997 to 2016. They were already in banking law and were in force, hence they appeared in the law on cooperative savings and credit banks as parallel rules. These provisions have been repealed by the regulation on the resolution of banking problems, namely the BRR Directive, but the originators of the amendment we are discussing, i.e. those who propose to restore these provisions for 19 years, believe that these provisions are in line with the Directive on the resolution of banking problems, namely the BRR Directive, that they fully meet the expectations of the directive and are safe. At a committee meeting, the Minister informed us of a situation in Spain where, under the directive, Santander assumed the sixth largest bank in the country. It was such a takeover for 1 euro, based on those provisions of the directive, which are... From many countries, there is information that these rules are unclear, contrary to local legal order. As a result of these rules, Spain has been affected by lawsuit lawsuits which pose a great risk to the effectiveness of this solution to the banking problem. Minister Nowak, at the committee meeting, stated that the restoration of these provisions, which existed for 19 years in Polish banking law, would provide greater security for the operation of banking problems. What else did I have... Sorry, did I lose any question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u132	What are these figures for 2 cooperative banks associations, BPS and the other association... One deadline is November 23rd and the other at the end of the year. [[Yes.]] And that's one of the important elements I understood. The introduction of this law. Please tell us whether there are other instruments for extending, extending the law in this respect, whether other routes have been considered and whether such routes exist at all. I'll ask the Minister, too. If the senator can tell you if it was in the committee meeting, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u133	Well, I'll be honest with you, there are other ways, but I don't have the kind of information that bank supervision and the Bank Guarantee Fund have, so that I can tell you if these are better roads and whether it's cheaper... or if these other solutions will result in less public aid. Yeah, there are other options, but for some reason, maybe one I don't know. After all, none of us here have any information about the current situation of those cooperative banks we are discussing The head of oversight sent a letter indicating this route as an appropriate solution. I understand that this is the solution that will cost the least as part of public aid and will be the least burdensome, including for the clients of cooperative banks. So that there are other options, but, Senator, I can't tell if they're better. I can have confidence in the head of oversight and the head of the Banking Guarantee Fund, because they both agree to the solution proposed in the bill as the appropriate solution. ♪ If we had ♪ Before taking a decision on this law, we would need to have a closed meeting and very wide access to the data. I do not know if we would be able to carry out such an analysis during one meeting. Maybe we'd just get some information about it, and I don't know if the amount of information we'd get would allow us to make a better decision. So I propose that we adopt the principle of trust in the authorities of the state. Since the Head of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Head of the Banking Guarantee Fund, as well as the Minister of Finance, are in line with the need and legitimacy of this solution, we have sufficient reason to trust. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have one sentence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u134	Extra, right? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you said a very important and crucial sentence. And I would like to stress that: the whole issue of the financial system is based on a huge amount of trust, a huge amount of trust. [[But the question was meant to be.]] That's why the question is that kind of thing. I didn't expect the senator to reevaluate which road would be better, which would be worse. I'm just confirming my conviction... Which is why I'd like to ask you one more time: are you technically... After all, there are ways for us to remove from the bill, which raises so much controversy, this element necessary for deadlines and to discuss it, and the rest we have implemented in an atmosphere of peace, in short. Don't you think that's a better way from an economic, political and social point of view? In this context, I wanted to ask you this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u136	Thank you very much for this question, because the answer to these questions actually allows me not to speak later in the debate when I propose an amendment that I have prepared and which will allow us to discuss this issue at the committee meeting. I, of course, make this amendment so that we can once again discuss this issue at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and ask these questions again in a smaller group during the committee meeting, which I may also close to the public. I am talking about the amendment, which consists in excluding as an indication the merger of banks the fact that they did not participate in the association, in the association's protection system. The Commission for Financial Supervision has other means by which it can compel the bank to take certain measures, as a last resort, it may also withdraw the licence. Right? In this act, the grounds for expropriation appear to be the lack of membership of the association. This is a very important issue that I would like to discuss at the committee meeting. I would also like to hear information concerning e.g. The epics of the Polish Apex Bank, from which I have been receiving further letters for 2 days, very disturbing. But, as I said, I will make this amendment so that we can meet again as the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and listen to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the BFG and supervision, the Financial Supervision Committee, so that we can listen and be sure that the interests of these co-operatives, members of cooperatives, because cooperative banks are co-operatives, i.e. our citizens, are properly protected and we are not dealing with an incorrect provision. If, after the discussion at the committee meeting, it turns out that my amendment is not justified, then of course I will withdraw it. Nevertheless, I will make such an amendment so that we can meet at a committee meeting and this section of the bill, a very important law to discuss. It is also important that this law brings many other regulations that result from the experience of GetBack, namely the sale of bonds, so that banks can solve reserves at the expense of the holders of these bonds, bondholders. Here are the rules that govern this market, and the rules very well assessed by the European Central Bank. The amendment, which appeared in the second reading in the Sejm, in some sense obscured the other good solutions that this law brings. This law was primarily intended to prevent such scandals as GetBack from happening in the future. It is intended to organise these issues, increase supervision of the bond market, certificates, financial instruments that have been offered to people who are unaware of the risks. Their money allowed several banks to benefit from the resolution of the loan reserves that burdened their balance sheets. GetBack paid big money for small-value wallets Hence the loss on the part of this GetBack that everyone hears about. And the bill brings solutions to this issue. We're talking about a piece of the bill that triggered the discussion, and it's connected to tapes that one of the investors Once again, I'll remind you, the owner of GetBack... it was also his banks that sold those GetBack bonds, and it was his banks that then solved the reserves, selling GetBack those credit portfolios. And he's the one who released this famous video now. It's true, isn't it? But there are more regulations in this law and, as I know, they are as if outside the discussion, none of your senators present at the committee's meeting questioned these regulations, and they have not aroused any interest. However, with reporting honesty, I would like to remind you that there are other very good provisions in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u137	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u138	I admit that your comments were about the questions that I want to ask, and I am asking them, because these were, in my opinion, not quite clear. You spoke about the existence of an EU directive that allowed for a response in such crisis situations. And you've been criticizing her a little bit on the basis of this Spanish example. I have made sure of this and therefore I ask this question: is it not an attempt to circumvent this directive so that it does not really apply it because it is awkward, uncomfortable and controversial? Isn't that why we're introducing rules that allow for shortcuts without the Commission's scrutiny? And you said that this directive requires its consent to take over banks when they, brought by owners, by external entities... Because banks can also be ruined, they are based on trust, so it's very easy to do it. So this is my first question. And the other. Indeed, these rules, which are criticised, are criticised, among others. for their intention to apply to small banks and ultimately to everyone. So I'd ask you to take that into account. What's it really like? And are the financial institutions concerned by this law the SKOKs, or are they not? Finally, I'd like to ask what the opinion is... I wasn't in the O.R. during your entire speech, perhaps you were talking about it, if so, I'm sorry. Is there an opinion of the Polish Bank Association on this issue? And what's the opinion? As a cooperative and cooperative advocate, a banking cooperative aware, also participating in general meetings, I would like to say that I do not like the other way than cooperative... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] And that's why if you... Let me ask you a question. Would this amendment, which you intend to make, be about opening up the possibility of another solution? [[That's the fourth question. If you have more, Senator, maybe you'll ask them next.]] Thank you, that's all. Those four questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u139	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u140	Let me start with the easiest question: is everyone? Everyone. So are the SKOKs. They're just in a different law, according to another law, as I said, that's the rule. These regulations, I'll remind you, were in force for 19 years in the law... [[But the SKOKs aren't here.]] Because you don't need them, they're in the SKOK Act. This needs to be restored for banks because in 2016 these regulations ceased to apply to banks after 19 years of validity and to what is important, after 19 years of undisputed validity, undisputed validity. Was it the Polish Bank Association? Yes, he was at a meeting of the Polish Bank Association. President Pietraszkiewicz spoke during this meeting. His statement concerned two issues governed by this law. The first issue concerned the vote in the Financial Supervision Committee. The idea was that the ordinary majority should be replaced by a qualified majority, i.e. that on certain issues, not all, but, as he said, on certain issues, decisions should not be made by a few votes, but a qualified majority should be required. Finally, he called for participation in the work of... participation in the Financial Supervision Commission and the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund of representatives of the Polish Banks Association as an entity representing contributors to these institutions. It's worth reminding you that this is one of the payers... All financial institutions operating in Poland contribute to the Financial Supervision Commission, but you asked about the Association of Polish Banks. This is what the President presented to us during the meeting. On the subject of this amendment, which we are discussing so much, I have not remembered his negative statement. What else? Trying to get past the directive. The Minister called it so that it is an addition to the directive and these provisions fully comply with... I have a quote because I was interested in that question you asked the senator. I asked the same question and received the answer that I wrote down, namely: "The return of these provisions meets the expectations of the banking problem resolution directive and complements it." That was the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u141	That's all the answers. Doesn't the senator have any more questions? [[The next round.]] Good. Thank you. Now you ask Senator Zdrojewska a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u142	Thank you. First question. I would like to ask you whether, during the committee meeting, you were considering a time correlation between the start of work on this law and the entry of Mr Czarnecki's application into the prosecution's case, which, of course, no one knew about except the prosecution's office, we waited a few more days for the whole world to know about it. So that this kind of scandal remained hidden at that time. Have you considered this correlation? And the other thing. Have you ever thought about excluding yourself from this bill because your name is on the table? And now I'm not prejudging your role and so on, but even here today, you're clearly biased about some of the main actors of this whole affair, and you're prejudiced. Haven't you considered just stepping back and not introducing yourself today... [[Is that a question, Senator?]] Yes. I'm just finishing up... [[Question, question... because there's still a discussion.]] Didn't you ever think about shutting yourself out? Because the rapporteur could be any senator on your committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u143	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u144	Thank you very much. The easiest question is the last one. Of course, I wasn't considering turning it off. It would be completely unreasonable, also in the light of what was later explained by the media, which published materials about me. The fact that Mr. Czarnecki told such a story is the subject of a lawsuit and is being dealt with by lawyers who have already filed this lawsuit against the newspaper that published it, because we have no confirmation, at least I have no such confirmation, perhaps the senator has that he has said everything that he has published in Gazeta Wyborcza and other newspapers. We don't. We are currently dealing with publications, but we do not have this confirmation. [[I'm sorry, but I was listening... there's a recording, Mr. Senator.]] [[There's a video.]] [[Yeah, yeah, there's no question about that. Those aren't somebody's stories...]] [[Let's finish the speech, and then the next question...]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the recordings in the modern digital world... You have to be careful about the recordings, too. Oh, yeah, I'll say. As long as it's not confirmed, it's a matter of caution. So there's no reason for me to get out of this. Second thing. Well, this bill doesn't apply to Mr. Czarnecki. This bill is in his interest, yes, it's true. In fact, this law deals with the interests of bank clients and indirectly other institutions that Mr Czarnecki has put in place. But I'm not going to turn myself off because in the same recording you'll find another piece about me when Mr. Czarnecki complains to Mr. Chrzanowski that I'm making his business difficult for him. Right? Indeed, when I was talking about franc credits, I always talked about the activities of Getin Bank; when I was talking about polysolocats, I always talked about the activities of Getin Bank. Mr Czarnecki presents in the report the amount of reserves he had to set and which charged his business because we have always made certain points clear. So, the things that Mr. Czarnecki said about me, it's worth... you have to read all the words contained in this transcript, not just the part where he talks back. [[Correspondence...]] The correlation between bringing it to the Sejm and... Ladies and gentlemen, November 7th. And what was that day on November 7th? [[Voice from the hall: 3 days before the holiday of independence.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Yeah, we know that. And that was... Let me tell you what it was like... [[Voice from the hall: 7 days after All Saints.]] Yes. Thank you so much for making such a precise statement. On November 7th, ladies and gentlemen, it was a Wednesday between the feast of All Saints, when most people were at the so-called. A long weekend... So the seventh was the application, then it was Thursday and Friday, and then the twelfth was free. You expect that this request made somewhere in the D.A.'s office immediately, during this weekend of the century of independence... will be taken care of by the Minister. We'd like you to do that. Right? We'd love to, but we'd probably all have to be digitally connected to some big computer, so that's the reaction rate. The reaction was immediate and everyone understands what it means immediately.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u145	And the temporal correlation with the bill? I'm sorry. That's what I asked. [[Voice from the courtroom: With the bill being filed.]] Correspondent with the bill, that's what I asked. Why, if the D.A.'s office... He filed a motion with the D.A.'s office, and the D.A.'s office didn't have time to deal with it. But, as I understand it, during this time the Seym found time to deal with it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is any correlation, perhaps in Mr. Czarnecki's actions, because the Sejm passed this bill on 9 November and earlier the Sejm committee It was either a day, or two days earlier, that she accepted her report, perhaps the seventh. [[It was happening immediately.]] Anyway, the Sejm passed it on the ninth, so I'm here with some information in the Sejm... Is this about a notification to the D.A.'s office? Is that what you wanted to ask me? Is there such a connection? [[I'm asking about the temporal correlation. At the same time, there was a proceeding over the bill and at the same time filing the application to the prosecutor's office in the morning on 7 November. I'm asking if you've considered it.]] [[And what other sign of the zodiac dominated at that time...]] Yeah, yeah, that's right. We don't know what the star and moon arrangement was at that time... [[Voice from the room: Very funny.]] ...but I'm thinking about one thing... [[Voice from the room: Yes, very funny.]] I'm thinking about one thing. I'm sure... [[Voice from the hall: At the level of Minister Radziwiłł.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I'm sure you need to... I'm sure the D.A.'s office can explain that. I'm sure that explains it. That's the question Mr. Czarnecki can answer, whose status in this investigation... Well, I don't know what he's like. [[I just ad vocem...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u147	Senator, do you still have a question? [[Just ad vocem.]] That's the last question, is there gonna be a series? [[Ad vocem.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u148	I'm just gonna say ad vocem that you just told us about this... the D.A.'s office won't explain anything, because the D.A. wasn't working, while for example. The Sejm was working. You just said that. Because he found time for it despite many holidays, holidays. Don't you notice that? The fact that the Sejm is able to work on the bill while you explain to the D.A. that she wasn't able to work because there was a lot of Christmas in the meantime? And you're saying that she immediately went to work? For normal people, it's like the D.A.'s office is waiting for something to happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u149	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u150	I can only repeat that in my opinion the actions were immediate. Putting a letter to the firm... It goes from law firm to person. We all know what the paperwork looks like, so... [[I'm not surprised.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Two days? Is this about the two working days we're talking about before the centenary of independence? Making that accusation... Let me put it this way: I wouldn't make a plea out of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u151	The question is... [[I wouldn't make that a charge.]] You're asking Senator Rybicki a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, in your answers to questions about the fact that the debate on this law, which otherwise regulates many different issues, is dominated by questions concerning the amendment tabled at second reading... [[Voices from Smolinski's room.]] Smolinski. Has the committee debated such a possibility to return to the original state of this law before the second reading? Do you not think that it would be appropriate for the committee to take the opportunity to simply delete this amendment from the law, since the same subject is regulated, as we know, in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and in line with the opinions of many lawyers, the re-regulation of this state at second reading is incompatible with the constitutional principle of 3 readings of the law and with the principles of correct legislation? Why didn't the committee take the opportunity to clear this bill out of this, in quotes, problem, since this issue is already regulated, as we know, in another law? And did this amendment It was a question, but I don't think there was a very specific answer. Is it possible to take over not only small banks, cooperative banks, but also large commercial banks for symbolic gold? Thank you. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u153	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u154	Thank you very much. Has the committee considered the issue of the withdrawal of this amendment? At this meeting, the Commission had no information on the existence of similar provisions in the draft Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund. We didn't have that information, so we didn't consider it. That's not the kind of question we've considered. The issue raised in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, the allegation of non-constitutionality concerns not the content of the legislation but the legislative procedure. This procedure is assessed by the Sejm and the Senate evaluates the substance of the rules. There was no conclusion... I'm sorry, the committee was assessing the substance of the rules. And there was no request to delete those provisions. There was no such conclusion. There was only a motion to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u155	Mr. Senator, would you like to fill in? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u156	Yes, I'd like to complete my question. In view of the fact that the Senate upholds correct legislation and often corrects errors made at the seymical stage, do you not consider it appropriate for the President to clear the matter at second reading, i.e. to return to its original state, and for the facts to be regulated only in the 1st Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund rather than in 2 laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u157	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u158	Thank you very much. Earlier, one of the senators informed that... it was Mr. Marshal Borusewicz who informed that the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund was not prosecuted at this meeting of the Sejm. She's been withdrawn. Was it even withdrawn as a project? [[She was withdrawn from the order of this meeting of the Sejm. She was on the Sejm's agenda, but she was left by the marshal...]] It was withdrawn from this meeting of the Sejm and we do not know when it will be adopted and in what form. We are not able to refer here to a law that is at an early stage in the Parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u159	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u160	Mr President has skillfully used the Senate speaker to discuss the allegations made by certain press titles. We've all been listening to this with a lot of attention. There's also a thread in your statement that you want to make. As I understand it, you're addicting her to further proceedings over the bill. Because that's why the amendment is made so that it can be accepted. If it is rejected, then the entire law is rejected, especially if it belongs to the majority in the Chamber concerned. Do you see any other... There are other indications regarding the application of this very dangerous provision. Is that enough reason for you not to proceed with this bill if the amendment was rejected? Are there any other reasons that you consider to be threatening confidence in the banking system and the stability of the banking system, as well as the threat that international institutions will lose confidence in the Polish banking system? The proposal that I put forward today in this Chamber, not to put this item on the agenda, was, I would remind you, from what is happening around the amendment that was introduced in the Sejm into the Financial Supervision Act. First, the matter needs to be clarified so that there is no doubt as to the role of the individual actors of this extraordinary undertaking, of extraordinary action... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and then, Mr. Senator, proceed. That was the essence of my conclusion. [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. You've crossed...]] Do you share any of the doubts I put forward today on behalf of our club?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u161	I must interrupt you, Senator... [[First an explanation, then a procession.]] ...because you're asking about things that aren't in the bill. You're asking about a hypothetical amendment that doesn't exist and we don't know if it will be. [[But the senator introduced...]] Well, yes, but the senator in the polemic whirlpool said something about something that isn't there, so let's not continue what isn't there, just put out a question about this bill and the possible work of the committee. We can discuss the amendment when it's notified, can't we? If you'd like to modify that question. [[Mr. Marshal, but you authorized me to do so because he mentioned it, didn't you?]] But I don't authorize this debate... [[It arouses my greatest curiosity, and that's why I'm asking.]] All right, gentlemen, you'll figure it out later. We are talking about a bill that is referred to by your president. He's told us what he's going to do, but we're not debating it. [[He even said he was gonna ask for this meeting to be closed.]] I heard that. But we'll still have time for that. Please make a different question... [[I have no other questions, because some have already been answered by the senator.]] If you don't have one, thank you. Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! You missed the last round, and I'm missing a point, and you didn't answer the question. You said that the cooperative banks, through their representatives, had an opinion on this bill. I asked not about the opinion of the draft law as a whole, but about the moment when the cooperative banks gave an opinion on Mr Smolinski's amendment. That's the question from the previous round, and I'm asking you to answer it, because you said the bill was reviewed. And the second question related to Mr Smolinski's amendment. After 19 years of operation, a certain stage, as you said, ends, the functioning of the rules on take-over, etc. It was 2016... Now it is 2018. And in 2018 the draft government law on which the government is working goes to the session of the Sejm. Tell me where Mr Smolinski's amendment comes from all of a sudden. Was she so hard to notice by the government? Have you considered why she was notified in such a way at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u163	This concerns the Sejm, Mr. Senator. [[But there are doubts.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] But let's leave the right to answer or not... Because we're talking about the senate procession stage. [[No. Mr. Marshal, I'm talking about the bill that was in the Seym and came to us. I'm asking if at the committee meeting...]] Okay, well, you formulated the question. I'm sorry, because this is where my phone stopped... I'm not gonna interfere. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u164	I'll answer that. During the meeting, the National Association of Cooperative Banks informed that it was in consultation with the law. We do not know whether he also referred to this amendment in this consultation. They didn't give us that information. Nevertheless, they took the floor during this meeting. And the only issue they raised on this amendment was the expectation that possible mergers of cooperative banks would only take place with cooperative banks. As I have already said, this was discussed during the committee meeting. On the issue of the procedure, where Mr Smolinski's amendment came from, this information was not presented to us at the committee meeting. Nobody asked me that. We receive from the Sejm the passed law, signed by Mr. Marshal Kuchciński, it is included in print No.997, and we consider the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u165	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wouldn't want to be mean, of course, but I'll get back to the phones while I process this point. I will remind you that at that time the Marshal also worked hard on the phone. But I would like to repeat the question about the procedure, Mr President, Mr Senator, because you are a legalist, as you reminded us by referring to the constitution. However, I will return to the principle of three readings, the duty of three readings. Why has this amendment been introduced up to 2 laws? My question also concerns the procedure that you are still talking about, namely that this amendment is the implementation of the EU Directive. I would like to remind you that the procedure is described precisely in the directives and that this amendment needs to be launched by the European Council on. Systemic Risk, European Commission, European Central Bank and European Banking Authority. And the amendment certainly does not replace this decision by an administrative decision of the KNF. Therefore, I wonder why this amendment was so quickly made, perhaps carelessly prepared, in such an extraordinary mode... And let me remind you, Mr. Senator, that all this happened one day, so the mode... and the senator's question about this coincidence and date... He's absolutely confirmed here... [[Question, Senator. One minute.]] Good. Therefore, my question is this: why this amendment if the directive forces completely different action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u167	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u168	Thank you very much. What's the amendment for? Well, in my speech, I referred to the letter from the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Committee to the Minister of Finance, which had been made public not so long ago, concerning precisely the issues of several cooperative banks, some of which, after 23 November, will not be covered by the protection scheme organised by the existing cooperative banks associations. This is the justification for these amendments. As regards the procedural issue, I would like to remind you that on page 6 of the opinion of the Legislative Office, there is information that these provisions may be brought against the plea of infringement. 118th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The procedure for bringing actions before the Constitutional Tribunal shall be known.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u169	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u170	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three points, so... Three questions. [[One minute.]] First question. Do you know, senator, that Mr. Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro has ordered himself to report on all cases that cause public interest? That's the first question. Second question. If there were no corrupt subtexts in this recorded conversation, then why did Prime Minister Morawiecki force the KNF head to resign? And the third question. Why is a representative of the Prime Minister and a representative of the services being introduced to the Financial Supervision Commission? After all, the Prime Minister appoints the head of the KNF, so he has his representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u171	Three questions. There you go... [[What's a department rep supposed to do there?]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u172	Yes. As regards the first question, the question of informing the Minister, the Attorney General, of important matters of interest to the public, this seems reasonable. I'm not a specialist in the functioning of a widely understood apparatus of justice, but in my opinion, it's a very rational expectation from the superior that he should know, that he had information about important matters that they will later ask him about, isn't it? Why resign? I would like to say that contrary to what many media are writing at the moment, the facts are that it was Mr Chrzanowski who resigned, who was accepted. He wasn't dismissed, he resigned in accordance with the bill. Please note that the facts are: he resigned and this resignation was accepted. His statement is available that he did it for the sake of the stability of the supervisory authority. We wish him to explain all the circumstances and that his good name be cleansed. [[Mr. Senator...]] But he resigned himself. [[...I didn't ask...]] Yes? [[...why he submitted, only why he was forced by the Prime Minister to resign. I happen to know the procedure.]] I didn't see the Prime Minister forcing him to resign. The Prime Minister called him to the meeting to give an explanation. Mr Chrzanowski resigned before this meeting. That's the order. Third question: why the Prime Minister and the Service? The representative of the minister of the coordinator of special services sits there without the right to vote, i.e. he may speak, but he does not vote, which means he does not decide. For a long time, the Financial Supervision Commission has had cooperation agreements with other bodies, services, including tax authorities, to supervise the financial sector. The information held by the various departments, customs authorities, tax authorities is very important for ongoing proceedings. The fact that a representative of the Minister of the Service Coordinator will be present at the meetings will improve the circulation of information, I would say. As far as the Prime Minister's representative is concerned, so far we have representatives of the current ministers in the Financial Supervision Committee, and now there will be a Prime Minister's representative. I understand that in order to coordinate the work of the members of the committees representing the various ministries.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u173	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! I will abstract from press enunciations or tapes and from the strange fact that the flight from Singapore lasts 12 hours, and yet Mr. Chrzanowski was given time to clean his office before the CBA entered, because it is not the essence of today's procession. But I'm starting to wonder if Zdzisław's plan, what it's commonly called, isn't justified. Because I went to the trouble of preparing for this discussion, reviewing the BRR directive, which is briefly referred to as Resolution, and it's basically quite clearly written there... Take me out of my mistake... together it's a few hundred pages. But it clearly states that the only authority entitled to such restructuring is the Bank Guarantee Fund, which is Zdzisław's institution, so... And there are still the steps that the senator was talking about, the European Council for the Environment. Systemic risk, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, needs to be carried out a public interest test, etc. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] I'm on my way. Why... The question is very simple: why is this procedure not even mentioned in this law? That the procedures describe the BRR Directive and it requires the use of the Guarantee Fund, not the KNF, which is to be dealt with by one administrative decision. Isn't that supposed to be in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u176	Thank you very much. This is a legislative remark, but not only of course. There is no need to quote rules or to refer to provisions that exist in other laws. They exist and they are in force, and therefore you will need to solve bank problems, depending on the scale of the bank and the planned activities, read both laws together and choose the procedures that are described in both of these laws. Is it KNF or BFG? Poland is one of the few countries Perhaps the Minister will know if there is another such country In which the resolution authority is different from the supervisory authority. It seems to me that such a solution that we have in Poland, which was adopted in the previous term of office, is probably... No, I'm sorry, it was adopted in this term. It was prepared in the previous term, by the previous Banking Authorities of the Guarantee Fund and the Financial Supervision Commission. Such a solution in the form of duality We have KNF, and we have BFG, which I would say, parallel permissions, is the original solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u177	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I am returning to my question from the previous tour. I did not get an answer to the question concerning Smolinski's amendment, i.e. an amendment to the banking law on the acquisition of the bank. As I understand, the ratio legis of this amendment is: it is intended to give tools to protect contributions to small banks, in particular cooperative banks, and take over these banks in the event that they do not guarantee their normal functioning. I'm asking you if these regulations also provide such tools, allow for the acquisition of a commercial bank, a large commercial bank, by another bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u179	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u180	The justification I referred to is the justification resulting from Mr Chrzanowski's letter to the Minister of Finance. These provisions, which are included here, do not create differences in the size of the bank and its legal form. There are specific provisions on cooperative banks. a provision on the obligation to bring cooperative banks together. In addition to this provision, they apply to all banks - regardless of their size and legal form.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u181	There are no more requests to ask questions. Thank you, Senator, for the report. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. We have Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're resigning. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item. Because there are questions, Minister, I'd like to speak to you at the podium. Senator Klich, if I've seen it right... [[No, Senator Blackbay.]] [[I was second.]] Senator Blackbay. There you go. We've already completed the list of questions... Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! For starters, two questions. The first concerns the draft law before Mr Smolinski's amendment, in short, which refers primarily to the proposal for an amendment. In this section To take over other banks for gold, and earlier draft law, without this amendment. What were the opinions of the Polish Bank Association, associated cooperative banks The project without any amendments made at second reading? That's the first question. And second question, Minister. As Senator Bierecki said, after 19 years, certain rules on takeover end. It's 2018. I understand that the government has been working for two years to prepare a good bill, consultations are being conducted, everything is as it should be, according to the legislative art. And you forgot about that? Have you forgotten this amendment by Mr Smolinski? Is he on his own initiative... Why do I ask? Because the Member said This is from Mr Smolinski's speech. He doesn't know why he called it in. That's why I'm asking, maybe you know. Did you forget to write this passage in the bill, or was it suddenly born? Who's the author at all? It's like with this magazine or magazine, there will be no author of this amendment. I'm not talking about the applicant. I'm talking about the author of the amendment. Who is the author of this amendment? Why did this appear at second reading and not immediately in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u183	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, on the one hand, we are dealing with a short history of how regulation should be treated or the regulation of rescuing banks that are in difficulty analysed. And that's worth saying at first. Mr Bierecki spoke extensively about this. Well, for my part, I will use only such arguments that, in fact, in recent years, following the introduction of the BRR Directive, we have seen a certain reflection, which we saw in the summer of 2018, when we also discussed how the BRR Directive works in the European Union, as the first cases have recently emerged. For example, the Spanish case Solution applications. The situation in 2016 was this way. At the end of the previous government, the Ministry of Finance, during the time of Minister Ratchurk, prepared the implementation of the BRR directive. It was a period in which it was declared... After the crisis, work on the BRR Directive and the Resolution institution lasted for many, many years. It was then considered that this institution was indeed a good solution for banks in difficulty. It was believed that they should be rescued in such a way as to get away from it, it can be said that it is the countries, the taxpayers who finance activity, sometimes excessive, when it comes to such failure to refrain from the risky behaviour of banks. So, the situation... Institution Resolution is as narrowed down as you know it, but I will remind you In the beginning, it can be said that before public money appears in the form of deposit guarantees, for the rescue of banks, owners, those who buy bonds are deprived of ownership. In this sense, This is kind of the result of such a crisis reflection: we spent a lot of money on banks, banks sometimes behave not necessarily... you can say they live a little at the expense of taxpayers. An institution should therefore be introduced which will restore a certain balance. After this BRR was implemented, after these first uses of Resolution in Europe, it turned out that this was not as good as it seemed to be a problem. It's just that if we have... Of course, there must be a public interest, and it is not usually that it concerns very small players. Well, we're dealing with a situation where the bank falls. What's going on? Of course, there is a guarantee of EUR 100,000, but the overwriters, those with more than EUR 100,000, are leaving in return, the bondholders, those who bought bank bonds, they are leaving in return, so this cancels out, the value of these bonds becomes zero, and the shareholders, i.e. those who have at least one share of this bank... suddenly we cancel the banks. So, in fact, this cost is being transferred to banks, but it's in practice, you can say, it's been faced with some difficult situation, leading to quite serious anxiety. This was due to the fact that not everyone, so to speak, who bought the bank's bonds or bought the bank's shares, should be held responsible when applying the Resolution. At the same time, as Mr President said here, the result was a lawsuit consisting of this... The question is: what is the relationship, the constitutional relationship We also discussed this when implementing the Resolution Act in Poland. Property rights and institutions Resolution, which generally deprives, expropriates? This is the expropriation of the owner, that is, the person who has the given action, the expropriation of the holder of the bond. because this is the property. So we're dealing with... Resolution is an expropriation mechanism. Therefore, as in any legal dispute between the public interest and the other, this is later the case for a discussion of the judicial procedure. And it's like this important context of the fact that, in fact, the entries that were deleted in 2016, the same ones that were today amended... There is now in Poland the conviction, in the KNF, in the Ministry of Finance, that in general this removal in 2016 was unjustified, that this too optimistic belief in the institution of Resolution is, one can say inefficient, inappropriate in situations where it is necessary to rescue small banks. And that's the general context. The second context is exactly what we were talking about, which is... This is the situation in which the CRR Directive was adopted in 2013, also as a result of post-crisis reflection, what to do with small banks that do not meet capital requirements. This Directive was implemented in 2015, in the first half of 2015. So the Sejm of the previous term adopted a mechanism that assumes that banks, especially cooperative banks, need to get together. This is the implementation of the CRR. There is this transitional period, it has been established by the end of 2018, and is about to expire. And what really happens when this period ends at the end of December? Institutions that do not associate do not meet these capital requirements when the transitional period under the CRR ends will lose their banking licenses. What can we do? We can do this in this situation like this... Of course there's a discussion with KNF, KNF maybe... In his letter, the president quoted all this factography of what banks are, how many are there, and so on. In general, it's a small number of banks, but of course in small... This isn't some serious scale, but we have a certain, so to speak, regulatory situation. We are dealing with a situation in which this transitional period will end at the end of December. And what can an overseer, KNF, do in this situation? If the bank loses its banking license, it falls. It's falling, which means... In general, the collapse of the bank is always an embarrassment. Those who have an investment of more than EUR 100 000 lose, those who own cooperative bank bonds lose, those who... Guarantees are covered by... We know what the terms of the guarantee are. So that such a fall involves real social costs. Therefore, the indirect mechanism, namely that the bank is still functioning in a different legal framework, is a better option. Better for citizens and for all those who own, for example, deposits in this bank, better for public institutions that have deposits in this bank, etc. This is the context of this bill. When did the discussion take place about this solution? In the first half of this year. Technically, as of April, we had a discussion, as the Ministry of Finance, about the restoration of this mechanism. In June, these provisions were consulted in the Act, which, as I say, has dealt extensively with other issues, including the blocking of parties, illegal parties, which as part of their activities... The Ministry of Digitization... There, this amendment or these regulations were placed at the stage of the government project, they were discussed, it was a law that took on many different topics, and therefore... We didn't want to draw up a bill specifically for these few regulations. In fact, at an early stage of legislative design, at a governmental stage, it was in this larger law. And it was also an opportunity to consult these regulations, send to 83 entities, consult with the banks' associations. This was the moment when the cooperative banks spoke. They had... We even have a letter to give you. The cooperative banks had some retail doubts about how to do this. As a rule, they didn't object. This is the July 4th magazine. In general, I understand that... just a legislative debate. And in a situation in which the bill that was to be carried out... restore those regulations, because the Ministry of Digitalization was not interested in further proceding this law, the work on this law was stopped. And that's why we found ourselves, especially KNF, in a situation where... It turned out that mechanisms relevant to the expiry of the rules at the end of the year, so to speak, would stand, i.e. They won't show up. There will be no instruments for KNF that would solve, you can say, the problem of the end of this year. As I understand it, the KNF recommended... Of course, also the Ministry of Finance, discussing this situation with Members, recommended Members... to make them aware of the importance of the situation. Members of the parliamentary club took the initiative to make such an amendment. And this is of course the result of full awareness of the gravity of the situation, why these rules are so important, why they are needed today. In fact, it's like we're solving an important problem that, you might say, is... Please note... The president's letter is public. That's where the moment of October really shows up when... The President points out that the end of the year is about to come, that there will be a moment when there will be a need for such an instrument, a whole range of instruments. Here is the absolute agreement that we can use... the BFG... is simply an institution of bankruptcy, an institution of resolution. However, this instrument is also needed to have a full guarantee that there is no social instability that Poles feel that the stability of the banking system is simply preserved. And this is generally, no longer prolonging, the context of this entire bill... I mean, this amendment, which is of course to... Why this bill? It seemed that the provisions of this law were indeed the most thematically similar. It's a law on supervisory institutions. The amendment is an amendment giving supervision to one additional instrument, which is important at a time when the need for this instrument will arise, namely where the banks of association will no longer protect certain institutions. That's why it's like... There is nothing new in these provisions, nothing that was not applied before 2016. Everything's identical. Therefore, you can say... There is also such a substantive justification that KNF has practiced the application of these provisions over many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u185	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, now I don't understand at all. So those recipes that were before 2016, they're back now, right? And KNF is implementing the same rules that were introduced in 2016, right? Surveillance...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u187	If before 2016, we had a case of a bank that found... Before 2016, in the 1990s, we had problems with some banks. What was KNF doing? What was banking supervision doing, then located in another institution? Because he applied the rules of forced merger of banks. That's what he did when it was obvious the bank was going down. And these rules were applied from 1997 to 2016. They've stopped working. Why? Because there was another way to solve problems, institution Resolution. After two years, we know it was actually a mistake. You have to have a resolution, and those regulations. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u188	Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u189	Yes? Can I ask you a question? Minister, you talk about small banks all the time. I will remind you that we have been through this crisis with dry feet. It's because the banks were in good shape, isn't it? Also. You were talking about the bill, the amendment to the bill, which was supposed to concern mostly small banks, cooperative banks. Therefore, my question is this: what happened suddenly in October or November that large banks were added to this amendment? What happened? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Not added...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u190	Wait a minute. Is the senator done asking? [[They weren't added?]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Okay, okay. I'm still in the next... now it's just...]] Okay, that's the next... [[...I would very much ask for an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u191	They haven't been added. The content of this amendment is absolutely in line with what was applied until 2016. It doesn't really make any difference. So it's not like there's a change in the fact that there were small banks, there were small banks, and there weren't before. Everything's identical. [[But what happened that it had to be introduced now, all of a sudden? Tell me what happened in October, November. What happened?]] No, I understand it as knowing that... [[Because apart from the SKOKs that put us at risk of losing 5 billion zlotys-- well, what happened? Because we don't know, at least I don't know about the threat of some bank bankruptcy.]] [[Senator, there's a question, there's an answer.]] This is the story I've been talking about, which is the situation where, when the year ends, And now it's gonna be December, a few banks, if they don't join these joint guarantee institutions, they might lose their banking license at the beginning of the new year. So we have a situation where... The KNF is diagnosed with a situation where the absence of such an instrument will not allow us to make a gentle, uncrisis transition... This is not a bank takeover, these banks cease to exist as a rule. If they lose their banking license, that means they stop being banks. In general, it can be said that without these provisions on 1 January a few local, small banks, which do not enter the association, will lose their banking license, i.e. fall. It means that in a few situations there will be a real problem. It's not, of course... The scale is absolutely minimal, but one can say that it is always better to solve the problem in such a way that this situation goes through as gently as possible. And that's why you need those records.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u192	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u193	Minister, it seems to me that what arouses the greatest controversy Also in the context of those recordings that upset public opinion and also concern the financial world, it is that, unlike the directives you spoke about, in this provision, there are very few conditions in this amendment to guarantee the objectivity of decisions. The ones that are written there are really so general... There are rules that fit in half the page. And the ones we're talking about are literally a few sentences. They give a huge authority to the supervisory authority because they do not precisely specify the conditions. And that's what's causing controversy, both political and economic, and speculation. That is why I asked if this was an attempt to circumvent the provisions contained in the directive. I meant, above all, those conditions, those provisions that are lacking. Why? And second question. Minister, I'm sorry, but to say that the Ministry of Digitization, let's just say something left something out or didn't want it. That's how I figured it out. And that was the reason why we were so panicked about looking for another way out... Well, in the mouth of a government representative, it sounds a little weird and ridiculous. Why did the Ministry stop wanting to, since, according to you, KNF and others, I am talking about the Ministry of Digitization, it was so necessary, so important, necessary, etc.? That's my question. Why? It's weird.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u194	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u195	Please note that, in general, the initiative, the legislative initiative, is always justified by a situation that... Well, it's from the evaluation. I can't tell you why the Ministry of Digitalization at some point thought that this mechanism was not appropriate from their point of view, from the point of view of technical solutions, blocking pages. I have no knowledge of what was behind the Ministry of Digitalization's decision not to continue working on this law. It's not like all the bill designs the government's starting to work on are... Not all the work is done. It is natural that some ideas appear, then we conduct a public consultation, and this consultation shows that some solutions are not the best and need to be withdrawn. In general, it can be said that it is rational that the government does not close its eyes. So that it is not that ministers, so to speak, do not look at what comes out of the consultation and go blind forward, as if forcefully convincing themselves to their ill-thought-out points. It should be appreciated that the Ministry of Digitalization considered certain solutions related to blocking parties to be unfair and did not carry out any further work. I can't tell you why it is that... the trouble for us was that the mechanism involved in solving this problem still, in some perspective, was not, so to speak, a new legal provision. Please note that this initiative to ensure that, from the point of view of financial market regulation, it is always important for us that KNF, as a law enforcement authority, knows what is needed to guarantee the stability of the financial system. BFG and other institutions, including the National Bank of Poland... Of course, we are talking about all other financial market participants here. From our perspective it looks like this: if KNF comes and says that it needs some legal records because there's some kind of diagnosed gap, then we take it very seriously. If there was such a letter in October that... Please note that we, as the Ministry of Finance, do not have any information about the current situation in a particular bank, what happens there every day. All this information goes to KNF, and it's KNF who knows there's some sort of regulatory gap that there's a hole and something needs to be done. This dialogue, which is, is not just a president or something. On a daily basis, a very broad group of officials examines all issues relating to insurance, banking, the capital market. It is natural, therefore, that since the President is sending us information, you know that the situation is becoming urgent, we cannot do otherwise than try to solve the problem as soon as possible. He even points out that these provisions should enter into force before the end of December to guarantee stability and no one, not one person, should be exposed to potential losses. So it's rational that KNF is active and convinces itself. The Ministry of Finance considers that, rationally speaking, it makes sense. Yes? Makes sense. In the first half of the year, we were the ones asking more questions, if, as I'm going to say, this institution is needed... KNF wasn't always so passionate at the time, convinced of the necessity... Perhaps it was too optimistic about what would happen to the implementation of the CRR on the association of cooperative banks. During this discussion, which we remember, the technical discussion on how to respond to the December situation, representatives, officials of the Ministry of Finance more often pointed out that perhaps this institution would be needed rather than the KNF. KNF generally agreed to this, which is why it appeared in this law in June. So you could say that this is... Later, in October, it appears to the president that the situation is pressing. The finale is that we're here where we are. [[The question is...]] [[You haven't answered my question about the terms yet...]] Oh, conditions, yeah, sure. [[There are over 200 pages of documents, and here we have 200 letters.]] [[Please fill in.]] It is not that... Please note that these institutions, including the Resolution, are actually relying on the following mechanism. The KNF, and in this case the BFG, as the regulator of the Resolution, refers in a very general way to the fulfilment of the capital requirements and the application of those institutions. These regulations, with regard to Resolution, are long, describe the whole complicated procedure, but there's this... general rule is this. We are dealing with an assessment of the situation, a risk assessment resulting from how to translate these general conditions into a given situation. Later, of course, it is possible to sue the public authority concerned and claim compensation. Here, as always, the decision involves a potential lawsuit, so it's not like we're dealing with... It's hard to write out different terms. What are the conditions under which the bank falls? When it doesn't meet the capital requirements and when it doesn't meet all the conditions in a situation... when it's like the situation isn't being implemented, you can say it's a bank that can survive. Because in a bank situation... Please note that we observe this every day in different countries: one day the bank is in good shape and then something may happen and intervention is needed. In general, one can say that the situation can change from day to day.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u196	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u197	I listened to what you were talking about with the utmost attention, Minister, and I have this impression. But please don't take this the wrong way, it's not spiteful. That this approach presented by the Ministry of Finance is a suicidal approach and someone who looks through the keyhole at the context accompanying this law. In answer to the first question, you described the context. But this context is much broader. After all, there is an earthquake in Poland right now! There was a probable transcript confirmed by transcripts. And if anybody wants to click, they can listen to the video too. . Corruption at the summits of power, at the summits of the financial system. This corruption or this attempted corruption does not apply to the Ministry of Finance fortunately, but after all, the Ministry of Finance represents the entire government. And I would like to ask you if the Ministry of Finance does not realize that, as you said at the moment, the implementation of the KNF dictation, i.e. at an accelerated rate, since October, seems, as you said, of this law, to put the government in jeopardy. Not our government, but your government, the PiS government, for an additional earthquake. There is a time between the stages of the Seym and the Senate, when one can still think and not act against one's own interests. Like a suicide who doesn't see the whole context and throws himself off a bridge. In order not to expose ourselves to the effects of this law. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] This context is simply much broader, because it is political in nature. This is an earthquake, the biggest scandal since at least the Rywin scandal. [[But this is]] Yes, of course, but... [[Ask me a question. Ask me a question.]] I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Finance is not aware of this very context in which it operates and that support for this law will also have consequences for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u198	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u199	I cannot comment on the situation mentioned earlier. Well, what you can certainly believe and what you can trust is that public institutions are stable in Poland, they care about the stability of the financial sector, but also about the stability of the justice system. We are here to confirm that the matter will be completely clarified and that we only have to believe it, because we have no reason not to have confidence in it. Therefore, in the context of these provisions, I will say that these provisions are absolutely justified and have no negative consequences for any bank owner, they are also needed to ensure that the transition through this difficult moment from the point of view of the banking sector, i.e. the end of this year, they are also included in the context of European regulation, the DGS Directive is a matter of Article. 11 Guarantees this kind of solution, i.e. allowing it to be applied in a simple, fast way to banks with assets below EUR 5 million. If we apply this to larger banks, we have to... I mean. then this procedure requires notification to the European Commission. So it's actually a reaction to a quick... And it's a solution for these little banks. In the case of a larger bank, a notification from the European Commission is needed, i.e. it is actually a conditional procedure that does not allow day to day-to-day action. That's why it's a story about these small and large banks. These regulations... Five million is probably what you remember. This is the result of the Commission communication, which interprets how public aid should be treated in the process of helping banks, and in fact I understand... Our task in the Ministry of Finance is to protect the interests of Poles in terms of the stability of the financial system. And that's our first priority. I understand that we should actually use some political calculations. Well, unfortunately, the business of Poles comes first with us. I can't comment on it any other way. We are aware that this is an extremely important solution. And this law is also important when it comes to the functioning of the KNF with the new President, under new conditions in such a way that this KNF is an increasingly better supervisory institution for the banking sector to become more stable, it has its own funding to employ better experts. This law is indeed also the result of a review. It is worth remembering that a representative of the International Monetary Fund this year has been with us and has just recommended increasing the financial independence of KNF so that it is not financed from the budget, but has its own resources, independent of the budget. For this reason, the law also implements this recommendation in this respect, allowing potentially, if necessary, to pay more money to professionals to make KNF financially independent, to a greater extent allow the cooperation of different members Other bodies such as the UOKiK, such as the Special Services, to enable the supervision of the Prime Minister to be strengthened, the exchange of information. All these matters are important for KNF to get well into the new year, 2019.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u200	Now Senator Rybicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u201	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, on 6 November, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance in the Sejm, a group of Members tabled an amendment on the possibility of taking over banks in difficulty without the agreement of the entity being acquired in the work on the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. At the meeting, the Minister justified the motion of Members of the Law and Justice. The Commission has agreed to your vote. A day later, the same committee introduces an identical amendment to the law that we are working on today, with a view to strengthening financial market supervision and investor protection in this market. What's the government's position? Because we want to know as the House We will vote on this law, which is the position of the government. Do you think the Minister, in accordance with your recommendation during the parliamentary work, that these provisions should be in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act or in the law that we are investigating today? ♪ For both ♪ ♪ And the other ♪ It doesn't make any sense. This contradicts the different legislative standards, and also conflicts with the principle, as we discussed earlier, 3 readings of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u202	I ask for a brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u203	Good. Absolutely rational is that it's in this bill. The Minister asked the Marshal in writing to hold the bill until this problem is resolved. And that's the effect of this last decision. For this reason, in order to actually sort out the situation related to this provision. And the marshal, as Marshal Borusewicz informed, gave his consent. The point is that we really recommend it, we consider it reasonable to sort it out. It better be in that bill. [[So you're changing your mind, Minister? The Minister therefore changes his recommendation because in the Sejm he recommended that this provision be included in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act.]] I recommend positive substantive content, I am not a lawyer to recommend that, so to speak, the legislative formula. From a rational point of view, it should be in one place. Should it be there or here? It's better here. But do I change my opinion? No. I mean. I think this amendment makes sense. It doesn't make sense for her to be in two places, absolutely, it's a complete agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u204	Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If I may ask, without context, because the context has already been understood... I'd like to ask the same questions again. Minister, why wasn't there a passage in the government submission that was made by Mr Smolinski concerning, in short, the taking over of the zloty? That's the first question. And the other. Has the Ministry prepared a draft of this amendment, or is this Mr Smolinski's genuine initiative?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u206	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u207	Why wasn't it in the presentation of this project, I can't tell you, I didn't supervise... i.e. I did not participate in the work on the Surveillance Act, which was quite quickly prepared and included, you can say, the consequences of these recommendations to strengthen supervision and changes in KFN. I can't tell you why these regulations... Perhaps they were created before the President sent a letter with his attention that these provisions were important enough to work on them. I bet you do. If I had to guess, it was. As with Mr Smolinski's amendment, I do not know. I'm sure it is, as I understand it... I don't have that kind of knowledge either. Perhaps as an institution concerned, KNF consulted the Ministry of Finance on the content of this amendment. Perhaps it even made some remarks at the stage of the work on this amendment because, in general, we wanted this provision to actually end up... Members also very often check their amendments with legislators. I don't have accurate knowledge. Usually, amendments are consulted, recommended at an earlier stage. Because of that... That's the practice. If Members, you can say, want to strengthen their amendments with expert knowledge, we always offer such support. [[Mr. Marshal, can I just clarify?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u208	Yeah, but not long.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Marshal, I ask you to do so: because, as I understand it, you did not participate in everything, or if I could ask for a written reply... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Sure.]] ...why wasn't Mr Smolinski's amendment included in the government proposal? That's the first question. And was the draft amendment tabled at the second reading by Mr Smolinski prepared by the Ministry, or was the Ministry only involved in the process of forming the content of the amendment? Okay? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u210	Now you're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, my first two questions were presented here by Senator Czarnobaj. Minister, I would like to ask you directly, because you answer absolutely substantively our questions, but without this context or subtext that something happened in the KNF. The head of KFN recorded... sorry, it was recorded during a corrupt conversation. It happened, and we know it. He even proposed that they could eliminate proposals or Zdzisław's plan on the way, i.e. here, besides the government, we still have the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, my question is this way: would you trust and repeat today really, with your hand on your heart, that it is worth entrusting the kind of decision that we are talking about today, KNF? [[Please...]] After all, now the head of the KNF will be appointed by the same people who appointed him before. And I'd like to ask if... Because the Ministry of Finance, I think, should also know that in KNF a few people who worked for a long time were called off, and among others. they also dealt with SKOK. Therefore, was this KNF, it just such an absolutely clean and professional body to supervise our finances, or did it also pursue other goals that I would not like to talk about because the various amounts were falling?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u212	That's the second question, Senator, isn't it? [[Thank you.]] That's two questions. [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u213	The Commission is a collegial body. It shall consist of a chairman, 2 alternates There are currently 1 and other nominated members, indicated by individual ministers, but there are other bodies... And now there are also changes to... This is the body that makes the decisions. Of course, there is an office in which people who prepare these decisions are employed. These are people with specific knowledge, competences, etc. Please note that speaking of committee decisions, we are really talking about the whole decision-making process. One clerk who's weak, corrupt, is luckily not enough to make... [[Boss.]] Even the boss. Because the boss never has the opportunity to impose his will on the committee in a situation where the majority You can say: a collective majority The committee shall work in such a way that these deliberations are recorded and verified. There's a transcript, then you can listen, you can verify everything. The D.A., the Secret Service, anyone who wants to control the decision-making process can do it later. Then there could be consequences for the lawsuit and so on. So we're dealing with a situation where all these decisions... If they collapse and if there's any doubt as to whether they are legal, whether they result from any acts of corruption, then later, after how many years No matter who will exercise authority, it will be possible to verify the procedure that has taken place. And an internal letter that prepares an office for the committee, which is these proposals... And then from the whole discussion that was. So I don't think there's a situation like this... It is difficult to imagine a situation in which one person is able to disrupt this process and lead to these decisions being bad for the public interest. [[Who represents KNF outside? This isn't an organ? Boss?]] Decisions shall be taken by a collective committee. [[And the boss represents...]] [[No, the Minister is right that it wasn't one person.]] [[Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u214	Mr. and Mrs. Senators, let's finish... The Minister replied. Does the senator have any further questions? No? [[Wait a minute.]] Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u215	Mr. Marshal, I have this formal question for you: is there a representative of the KNF? And was he invited? That's one question. It's not, of course... [[Voice from the room: He was invited.]] [[We find out he was invited.]] Was he invited? [[Yeah, yeah. He's not here.]] There's no KNF representative, which means I'm not gonna ask him. But I have a question for you: how do you relate to the proposal of the head of the National Bank of Poland to return to the national structures of the bank? Do you think this is a bad solution or is it possible? How do you feel about this proposal? Because she's dead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u216	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u217	Well, it's hard for me to comment on a subject that's completely outside the scope of the bill. This discussion appears in the public debate. We do not have a concrete initiative or legislative process that covers this scope, there is no government position. It is certainly the case that if such a proposal appears, the Ministry of Finance will participate in a discussion on how to regulate relations between KNF and the National Bank of Poland. You could say... Let me say briefly that we see both solutions in the European Union. I mean. we see solutions related to the fact that the equivalent of the National Bank of Poland is an institution regulating banking supervision. There are situations, there are many such countries. And there are places like this. Germany, where there is a separate BaFin institution, which is just such an institution as KNF, and is separately a central bank. It has its downsides and pros in the sense that in a purely academic discussion it rather prevails... I mean. The first question always arises: what to do with these other supervisions? Because we generally combine banking supervision here, this insurance company, the capital market... And then we all have to do something about it. But it also remains like a small KNF, which in this area... So we'd solve a problem, and then we'd solve all the other problems. The discussion on central banks results, i.e. experts say that the central bank should in fact not be dealing with an excessive number of goals at the same time, because it may lose, so to speak, the goal, the horizon to which it should aim. At some point there is a need to achieve several goals simultaneously, and it is always difficult for a public institution to do a few things at the same time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u218	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm going back to the billings again. By entering and understanding the context of the need for various types of entries that are in this original project, as if supporting the spirit that the Minister is talking about, I would like you to tell me such a thing. If there was no amendment by Mr Smolinski, and it would have been introduced, in the sense of idea, in the normal mode of 3 readings, etc. And quietly realized... Do you see any threat? We're talking about taking over for gold here. As far as the functioning of the financial system is concerned, if we do not introduce this one amendment and the act is implemented in its entirety? That's the first question. And a second short question. If I may, I would like to hear once again what were the general opinions on the whole project without Mr Smolinski's amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u220	So I can get this first situation straight, I'll ask. So we're talking about a situation where this amendment isn't there? [[There isn't.]] Well, that's... This argument given by I'll say it again. The president, that in a few cases at the end of the year we will have a problem, is an argument for us that convinces us that it is worthwhile to proceed with this amendment so that KNF can apply this instrument. I don't know if that's what this is about. [[No. Mr. Marshal, can I explain to the Minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u221	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u222	Minister, I am not questioning that this amendment is also worth considering, but it is about going two ways. Firstly, we are proceeding in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. there are 3 readings, there is a law without amendment, etc., we are doing this, and secondly, this amendment will be carried out in the framework of a normal legislative initiative, which will pass all reading, opinions, etc. After all, no one from the association of banks gave an opinion on Mr Smolinski's amendment. Do you see the danger of going here two-trackly, in order to calm down the situation, to introduce what is the background that the Minister was talking about, i.e. the solutions concerning the ending association and other positive solutions that are in the draft law, and what is causing controversy as a result of the submitted recordings to the prosecutor's office and another cover, to play the normal mode again, in accordance with the Constitution, principle 3 readings, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u223	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u224	To answer that question, I'm going to say yes. Since these provisions have already been consulted at earlier stages... It is worth remembering that this amendment, although it is kind of new in the legislative sense, contains those provisions that have already been consulted in June, and we have observations, for example, of cooperative banks associations... [[And where was she consulted?]] Well, in this law, the Ministry of Digitalization... i.e. In our bill, in which there were these regulations... [[I mean, she was there first, and then you pulled her out.]] No, no. We didn't. It's just that those laws that were about blocking pages to which the Ministry of Digitization was supposed to, as if it didn't think it should be handled... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Those were the rules. I'll remind you again. It was an initiative from June. In July we had the opinion of cooperative banks that these rules are generally okay, but there are a number of legislative doubts about them. Since we already believe that these provisions were consulted with cooperative banks in July... This allowed us to support Mr Smolinski's proposal, which had tabled an amendment on these provisions. But I agree that when it comes to... full agreement, it's always better to do things calmly than quickly. It's better to do so, more consultation and think five times, not just once. [[Pretty good, not messy.]] But I can't tell you if... I mean. I do not have the impression that there is an important problem, especially since the comments of the National Association of Cooperative Banks we already had after these consultations which took place in June and July.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u225	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator, do you want to continue? [[Well, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Or do you want me to write you down for discussion? [[No, I'm gonna...]] Well, please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u226	Minister, maybe it's too late, maybe I've been sitting here too long to catch the context. Please correct or confirm. I understand that the original project, which was born either in the Ministry of Digitalization or in the Ministry of Finance, is no longer relevant, but contained those provisions resulting from the amendment made by Mr Smolinski... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Yes.]] ...and then they disappeared... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, the bill stopped...]] Well, how... [[Wait a minute. Finish the senator because it's a long question.]] Minister, wait a minute, wait a minute. This is the bill that came out of the Seym with Smolinski's amendment. Well, if those records were there at first, why would Smolinski make an amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u227	And that's the question. I'm asking for an answer. [[Well, since they were in June...]] [[They were in the introduction...]] [[...in a government proposal, if they were consulted, why did he make this amendment?]] Mr. Senator, the question is clear. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u228	Again, just so we're clear. In June, we put the project UD265 to consultation. It was a draft law on the blocking of parties in the Forex market and it was the law that covered it. In June this draft law was sent to the public consultation, to 83 entities. In July, we received a reply from the National Association of Cooperative Banks in the framework of this consultation, and then it happened on vacation. The Ministry of Digitalization, which... This law was supposed to cover a lot of things. In addition, this information is published on the RCL website, but the legislative work on this bill has been frozen. In view of the fact that most of the provisions of this law treat the blocking of parties, it can be said that in this respect the Ministry of Digitalization is the competent authority, which, in the context of these public consultations, stated that work on this law should be stopped, that some technical solutions should be considered in general. A number of other arguments were put forward in favour of simply carrying out the bill calmly. Laws are sometimes It's worth remembering. . Developed at the governmental stage for many, many months, especially if they are complicated or involve many, many entities. And that's what happened in this case. Later, when we were aware that this project would not actually come out of government work by the end of the year, that these substantive matters were too much... It can be said that October came, and the President's letter came, that this solution is needed. And because of that, there's been a situation that kind of a consequence of these laws... They were included in this law, because the work on the right law, which had them, so to speak, put it into effect, stopped moving forward because of all these doubts, whether this blocking of the parties makes sense and how technically it was necessary to do so was a lot of long discussions on this subject. And that's the context. And we didn't want to say that we were going to start some accelerated work in order to prepare just this one little bill, in order to create some special law cut into one legislative amendment. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll ask you one last question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u229	Last one, Mr. Senator, because you were about to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u230	As you say, Minister, it comes to me... Minister, one more time. Please tell me whether the draft of that law, prepared by the Ministry of Digitalization, which had various kinds of opinions and negative comments, took over you as the Ministry of Finance. Is this a bill based on that bill? Are these the same laws, or did you just take out part of it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u231	We took out... [[Did you take the part out?]] Only those rules were removed from that bill. And the law on blocking pages is, it is worth remembering, the law of the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Digitalization. Technically, it's common, but it's formally ours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u232	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u233	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in one of your replies, you said that the decisions of the KNF are made in the group and by persons who are members of the KNF. One such person is Zdzisław Sokal, President's representative, appointed by the President to the KNF in September 2015. From the tapes and from the opinions of many observers, including the media, it appears that Zdzisław's plan, Zdzisław Sokal, is currently being implemented in the bill on which we are proceeding. Meanwhile, it turns out This is the case according to many legal opinions Zdzisław Sokal was appointed to the KNF illegally, namely without the countersignal of the Prime Minister of the Government, and the constitution clearly states that the official acts of the President of the Republic of Poland should... Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No Thus, KNF's decisions can be challenged, their credibility can be undermined as they have been taken by unauthorised persons. Does the Ministry of Finance monitor this situation, analyze it, and do you have any opinion of the Minister in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u234	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u235	As far as I know, Mr Sokal was appointed to the KNF when Mr Jakubiak was president of the KNF. He is a well - known person for a very thorough assessment of the legal situation, which is also associated with such a belief that this matter has actually been thoroughly investigated. And the other thing. As far as I know, the previous representative appointed by the President to KNF, Mr Pruski, was appointed in the same way. As for the previous decision, as regards the situation of the appointment of the previous representative of the President, indicated by President Komorowski, of course, there was no such doubt. For this reason, this mode has never been questioned... [[He was, he was.]] ...and there's no reason to question the appointment of President Sokal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u236	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u237	I have a request that you, like a peasant, apologize for masculinisation, it doesn't offend women, maybe women are smarter in this case. He explained a matter. Currently we have a law on restructuring and bankruptcy of companies. She, as I understand it, proved to be, well, there was no objection to her, first of all. Secondly, she was also modelled on European law. The question is, why one more bill? What is so important about the present state that it requires such sudden, unhindered, sudden and unexpected action?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u238	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u239	Just so it doesn't take too long, I'll try to... We had quite a long discussion about this. Since the resolution mechanism, i.e. in the case of Poland since 2016, the belief in the European Union, the belief that the resolution mechanism is the Golden Grail, the best solution, more and more so, goes down. Especially worth paying attention to this Spanish solution, where there are actually a lot of lawsuit, a lot of negative consequences associated with orderly bankruptcy, the more that it does not solve the situation of very large banks, as even the National Bank of Poland has been paying attention to for many, many years. And what is important is that in many different countries, among others. in Poland, there is the belief that this instrument, which worked until 2016, which is precisely introduced here, is what needs to be restored, because there must be something indirect between bankruptcy... milder than bankruptcy in a situation where the bank falls, should be a mechanism ensuring a flexible, gentle transition, guaranteeing that no one will financially lose. So this is actually the solution that we want to apply. The idea is to return to the practice that took place between 1997 and 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u240	Thank you. The list of people willing to ask questions has been exhausted. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak in the discussion with Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is impossible to discuss this law without context, without what we know from the media, without the decision of the Prime Minister who forced the head of the KNF to resign. Well, something serious has happened. It seemed that, in this situation, the best solution was to withdraw from this law, from this one specific provision, which allows the acquisition of private banks without any established rules, precisely established rules. But the government and the parliamentary majority of the Law and Justice go on, thus adding oil to the fire. You're the ones putting oil in the fire. Because I thought the government would withdraw from this most critical act. There was a good signal that he withdrew the bank supervision bill... No... [[Guaranteed...]] ...the guaranteed bill... [[A guaranteed fund...]] ...the guaranteed bank fund, and you might have thought that it would do the same in this case. I thought that this was some rational way out of this situation, which is actually a fatal situation, because it undermines confidence in the financial system regulator, because the law seeks to create the possibility of expropriation of property in this case in the banking system. The financial system is a blood cycle, and there is a suspicion that someone wants to disrupt the situation or take over not for the purposes of regulation and improvement, but for the purposes of others, only known. Well, Mr Smolinski's amendment introduces regulations that are very likely to be needed, but there is a provision that says that, where necessary due to the situation of the bank being acquired, the Financial Supervision Commission may grant authorisation to take over, despite the temporary failure by the acquiring bank to comply with the requirement referred to in Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Macroprudential Supervision Act. The previous provision states what the conditions are, and here also introduces the possibility of this type of action, i.e. expropriation, acquisition by another bank, without any rules. It triggered and raises questions about intentions. Why this provision had to be in such a mode, immediately and at such a time, i.e. when the tapes concerning what was happening or what was happening in the back of the KNF have been revealed? There's a time relationship, there's a time relationship. All the more reason that there's a suspicion... If this is not the case, it was all the more necessary to withdraw from this bill and wait for this problem and the crisis caused by the tapes to be resolved. Right now, the situation is surprising and astonishing, and you're still going through with it. This solution provides for the possibility of taking over banks for so-called. It's a cashier's fee. The lack of a clear definition of the conditions under which a situation could lead to much greater scandals leads to unequal treatment of economic operators. We already have that experience. Unfortunately, the current government goes in such a direction that the state is better, that the Treasury bank is better, that the state is better. And you can hear it, you can hear it everywhere. You can hear it when you talk about the so-called. media recolonization, i.e. media takeover... The acquisition of such solutions was applied across the eastern border, as well as across the southern border. Gazprom bought television from Bierezowski so that the criticism that flowed from this television was finished. And that's what happened. In the media sphere... We're hearing it, and we're not the only ones. Today was a meeting with the American ambassador who said that... she said things, including. That how we're in charge here is our business, but for her there's a limit. The limit is to take over the media, take over the private media, that is, the property of others, to practice their own propaganda, or to close their mouths to those who have different opinions and other views on what is happening in Poland. Soon we will proceed with the National Tax Administration Act, which... The reasons for this law are that, in order to improve procedures, this law introduces control of officials, tax officials into legitimacy, i.e. They show ID and they can come in and control, without prejudice, without decision. In addition, this law provides for the possibility of controlling the company's bank account for analysis. Not when there's a suspicion of a crime, just to analyze it. Well, that's... It all kind of fits in one direction. This is the introduction of state sovereignty over banks and over the functioning of public life. This is also the case when it comes to social organisations, the creation of state structures to help and, in principle, supervise. This is terrible. In the same direction you go when it comes to banks, in a situation that is very delicate. And you're not gonna back out of it. What are the losses for this? Of course, the losses are concrete. And maybe somebody's gonna take advantage of this situation. If the banks we know fall, the Bank Guarantee Fund will not be able to cover their customers' losses. The bank fund has already paid over $5 billion to cover what our countrymen have put into the SKOK. He paid $5 billion. The guarantee fund had to be increased. That's not good enough here. If you keep going in that direction, someone will decide to attack the gold. What are we gonna do then? I appeal to the government and to the majority of the government, to those who are aware of the situation: this solution must be withdrawn. I'm filing a motion to delete the passage I've indicated. I'm making such a request, and I hope it will. And if not, you will take responsibility for what will happen in the near future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u242	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to speak with Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Several times came here today from our side the word "afera". In fact, we're dealing with a situation. When, as in the case we are talking about today, it seems to us that we, the senators, are discussing a bill, and after a closer look at the case and after some wiretap has been revealed, it turns out that we are really discussing Zdzich's plan. That's what it looks like today. We're gonna rally over Zdzich's plan. Six months ago, some scenarios were written that might have come true, but they might not have come true either. You could go one way, you could go the other way. We went this way, and the tapes that appeared, which revealed Leszek Czarnecki, showed some mechanisms of functioning of power in Poland. When I listened to you from the Ministry of Finance, the minister's representative, I felt like he was living in a bubble. Minister, you were talking about some wonderful KNF, which will be from the new year, etc., etc. I don't believe it. Perhaps the best solution would indeed be to submit financial supervision to the National Bank of Poland. But I'm wondering if this bank will be trustworthy. I draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with a situation here. Perhaps the director in this recording, as Senator Bierecki suggested, was Leszek Czarnecki, but let's really look at the main actors who perform in this performance. It is the head of the KNF, it is also Mr Sokal, and it is Mr Glapiński that no one has noticed about this matter today, but it was with Mr Glapiński that the gentlemen were to meet once before, somehow this meeting did not happen, but immediately after this meeting we are talking about, you were going to Mr Glapiński again. We also have Mr. Sokal here, and this is the person who is a villain here, i.e. Mr. Sokal is trying to introduce him to Mr. Chrzanowski to ruin our plans. And in this conversation, Mr. Bierecki said here that we are not dealing with corruption there. And it seems to me that anyone who listens to this recording or reads the transcripts must be absolutely convinced that it is corruption that we are dealing with there. We have such elements there: already at the entrance Mr.Chrzanowski informs about the noise that was installed, then makes sure that Mr.Czarnecki does not happen to have a phone with him. So you can see right away that she wants this conversation to be secret and confidential. For what reason? What could be the reason that such a high-ranking official tried to jamm the conversation and informed it, as well as that such a high-ranking official wanted these conversations to remain secret? And what happens after a while? After a while, and after all kinds of other elements that I won't be moving around here. In this conversation, there is a time when a proposal is made to employ Mr Czarnecki in the bank, a person designated by Mr Chrzanowski. There's no talking about what that person's supposed to be doing there at all. It's just, I have this lawyer... And Mr. Chrzanowski immediately goes, Mr. Senator Bierecki, to the remuneration of how much this man will work there, whether this salary will be distributed for a few years, or it will be paid in several tranches, as it will look like. So that we have... [[There's no note...]] Please? [[There's no note...]] Not even a card, not even a card. In my opinion, we are dealing with obvious corruption here. And then there's this one in the background. In order to clarify this, a committee of inquiry needs to be set up on this subject. The links with the various most important people. It should be clarified, inter alia. The role of chief... of President Glapiński in all this. And you have to explain everything: what were you guys for? In fact, what was supposed to happen there... So even if this case was directed by Mr. Czarnecki, the actors played their roles well. And we can say that we are dealing here with exposing the way our state operates, the way we operate high, some of the highest civil servants, and how easily... 'Cause besides what the Minister was talking about, I mean. Except that there are protocols that there are some KNF meetings, that there are people there, that they're discussing with each other, and that's written down... It may even be transmitted, but it turns out that after that, we're actually meeting somewhere in the middle of a loudspeaker, in the privacy of some office, and that's where we set up quotas, contracts, and so on. So that's what it all looked like. In my opinion, there is undoubtedly corruption here. I would also like to refer to what Senator Bierecki was talking about. I think you've run a lot of companies in your life, so you know the bad guy's the boss who doesn't know what's going on in his company. So if after a few days, after Christmas and an extra holiday, the D.A. found out what was going on at his firm, which is the D.A.'s office, I think we're dealing with a bad boss who doesn't know what's going on. If the D.A.'s office doesn't report something like this immediately, we're dealing with a very strange case. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I was talking about a bubble in which the Minister seems to live saying that there was no scandal, and in which Senator Bierecki seems to be living saying that if the scandal was at all, it was Czarnecki's affair. I don't know if you've noticed this, but yesterday I heard a few representatives of the right side of the political scene saying that Leszek Czarnecki is an oligarch. When we hear a word like that, we have a guilty man and we shouldn't even think about it. We have an oligarch and we have a good country. We have sheriffs, which means we have sheriffs. Mr. Chrzanowski, who might want to make some extra money while he's at it, and we've got the wrong oligarch. Right now, this is what it looks like to build a narrative about it. We're not doing anything here. We're going to vote against this bill because she shouldn't even be here tonight, she shouldn't be procedated at all. But it's gonna come back. Surely there will be a committee of inquiry on this subject and some of you will be questioned by this committee of inquiry in connection with the various threads that appear here. One more thing about what you said to Marshal Borusewicz, i.e. certain security in the country of companies and banks, but also people who have their deposits and who would like to have full confidence in the state. It turns out that, after what we have learned, citizens cannot have absolutely no confidence in you, because the highest officials who, as it turns out, do not have the right skills to perform such high functions. Outside of their backs, they plan to destroy some venture, some bank or something. And we've heard many times over the last year about recolonizations, reprivatizations, etc., etc. I think this case has come to light so that you'll refrain from this kind of idea of taking people's property, going into other people's territory, and in addition In this case, everything points to this. For a lot of money. Where that money went, where it was supposed to go, who, etc., we'll probably find out someday when you're out of power. If you think this is normal... I'm talking to a representative of the Ministry of Finance and Senator Bierecki. If you think it's normal for some clerk to make some suggestions As you say, "Oligarchs," I'm really wondering what is going on in our country and what you're doing. We're dealing with a whole lot of that. With the biggest scandal so far, because no scandal has reached such high levels of power and an important institution as KNF. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u244	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that today's debate has shown a few things about how the law is being created in Poland. I knew it was bad, but I didn't think it was that bad. I will tell you why I think so after today's debate. There is a country in Europe called Hungary. I read in the publications that in Hungary, in the majesty of the law, parliamentarians obey what one man wants. This ends with the creation of interest groups, which piece by piece, as good cake takes over Hungary. Of course, I'm talking about publications. I wasn't there, and I'm not saying it on the basis of my own observations. I'm talking about publications on what mechanisms exist. An example of the creation of this right raises such conclusions. I'm not saying, Minister, that's exactly what happened. Me, coming up with the utmost confidence It's my biggest flaw. To another man, I believe what you're saying. Except, as Senator Zdrojewska said, I think that bubble surrounds the Minister. This power group is outside of you, and I think it's a good thing that you're living in the belief of the rule of law and the creation of good law. I would not want us to find ourselves in a moment, thanks to the support of the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, in the country which is described in these publications, in the country which was created in Hungary. In the country where the group of interests holds power. And here's a classic example of a power group. I want to go back to a story. There used to be a good draft media law, but there was a guy who said, "Let's just delete the magazines." Well, he didn't change much. Yes? He didn't want to change much, and in fact it changed the whole point of this bill. And now, Minister, there's not much... After all, this Mr Smolinski acted in good faith. I suspect someone from the ministry came and said: listen, Mr. Member, listen, Kaziu That's what people who know each other call each other. Take this project and submit it. This is confirmed by his later statements Mr Smolinski said that he did not know why he had submitted this project. That's why the Minister's speech is interesting. Here's one ministry consults, makes a big bill about blocking, etc., does, does, does, and there's this story about banks, there is. And then it turns out they're not gonna do it. The Ministry of Digitization says I'm sorry, but we can't do it, we can't do it. But the year is over, and as the Minister said, and Senator Bierecki confirms, there will be a few banks that will not be associated and will be in trouble. Well, we have to do something. Here we go. So? And you made this bill. From all this, someone forgot to mention that the bank could be taken over for a dollar. So it was prepared for poor Mr Smolinski... he gave, laid down, but to this day he does not know why. And we're gonna take over the banks for the gold. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm speaking generally, I don't vouch for everyone. I don't know, some people would like to buy for a dollar, too... Senator Shark showed me such a great meme. Do you know why this mechanic who didn't write those 10 zlotys into income is being persecuted? Because he can buy 10 banks for 10 zlotys. It's so important... [[Applause]] This is the kind of thing you want to do. For a little money, take over the Republic. And now a word about the procedure. You were talking about a good, decent country. What is created in a good, decent country? It's a good, good law. How I've been listening to it today about how it's been going. One ministry takes, pays back, then there's a complex amendment, but he doesn't know why he made it, and so on. It's... Is this how a good law is made in a state of law? Today is November 21st, and on November 23rd, as Senator Bierecki said, the deadline for one group of cooperative banks is over. Well, you should've waited a little longer. Mr. President is probably waiting to sign this. After all, it is not about this, Minister, honourable Members, to question all these provisions, because there are many things here, as the opinion shows and as the Minister said, that are right and good. This is your method: good bill, and under that good bill, we're gonna hook something up. How about a buy-in recipe for a goldsmith? And we're gonna buy 10 banks for that 10 bucks. Maybe they won't notice, maybe they won't notice, and he'll go. I want to say yes to you. If you want it, and I hope you want it internally. I am addressing the Minister here and the Senators of Law and Justice. We want a situation related to the financial system that requires peace, competence and other elements... If you can't... Did somebody order you? Probably not, after all, you make your own decisions, in your conscience, in your conviction. If you are not convinced of the rejection of this law, I will submit an amendment to reject the amendment tabled by Mr Smolinski. Let's hear it. Okay, we're gonna reject her and in normal mode... As I understand from the Minister's statement, the world will not collapse if we do it in a normal way, including it in the whole package of laws. What is needed That's what the Minister was talking about. It will work and we agree. And this whole circle, like the Minister said beautifully, shows one thing: it's very... I even had some doubts about whether this committee was needed or not, but today, after this debate, I would like to say that there are so many threads here to explain: who gave a card to whom, who wrote it, why one ministry resigned, why it is written like this and not another draft of this bill... And please note what many senators have said here in the discussion. It's written down that you can take over. Well, if it were written under what conditions and other things were written that govern the entire process... Plus, the statement that the details will be in the Finance Minister's regulation, the procedure... Of course, it's all right. And here you are giving this situation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] Vladek and Jurki didn't want to talk about Mr. Zdzisław... and Vladek and Jurki met as part of the KNF and decided that the bank had to be sold for cash and they did. Of course, in 10 years' time, the owner of this bank will win the case, but it won't matter anymore. This is not the way to proceed with private property. And now, God forbid, what you're doing to the most sensitive system of state security - stability, peace, competence, lack of corrupting temptations, other things. I'm talking about the state's financial system. And if you don't get it, I'm addressing the Senators of Law and Justice. You do not want this stability in Poland, you do not want to create good law. And if you want to express your concern for the Republic, its financial stability and peace, I suggest you do three things. First of all, for you to appoint the head of the KNF to be a man who gives the guarantee of not being involved in corruption proceedings, has authority and is unbuyable and irreplaceable. There's a man who's been fighting with the SCUs before. Deputy Chairman of the KNF, Mr Kwaśniak. He showed how a civil servant should be determined about showing various kinds of irregularities. And what Senator Bierecki said about KNF. Have you noticed? Senator Bierecki said this: if the KNF places that there is a threat to the bank, we need to think very carefully. And I remember KNF talking about SKOKs, Mr. Senator. God, what was that discussion? That KNF wants to throw itself on Polish property, take away property from Poles, which is bad behaviour of KNF. One senator said when we adopted the inclusion of SKOKs under the KNF: "Surely something is going on here, either love or money. If I know life, it's not about love, so it's about money to take over. And please note that since in the course of this proceeding That's what I'm reading. Everyone in KNF who took care of the SKOKs was fired, which country We're talking? What kind of country is this? I would like to say that this procedure that the Minister was talking about here, which we discussed And we were discussing the role, the role of making amendments, how it was done, how messy it was, which posed a threat to the safety of the system... By quoting your favourite phrases, I would like to tell you that the Polish state in terms of the stability of the financial system failed on the whole line. And finally. I asked the Minister... if we asked the Minister, and the Minister said that the KNF was doing these analyses, which bank, what, but we're not up to date on this KNF, so we're not being kept informed. So I understand that the KNF is working, picking up something, talking colloquially, picking, picking, picking, picking and doing something. Is there any supervision over what they're doing there? How do they do it? As far as I'm concerned, no. From what I read, there's also no supervision of how they spend money. Because if it's true that PLN 103,000 was spent on a ski course in KNF, it shows that the financial security system... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Yes, Mrs. Marshal. He's in real danger. That's why I'm making an application, Mrs. Marshal. I'll put it right here. For the rejection of this law. And if you do not have the courage to reject it, at least express your determination, your concern for the good law and reject Mr Smolinski's amendment. So I'm kind of making this motion two steps away. I'm just gonna put this in, and I'm gonna put it in your office right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u246	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have spoken as rapporteur for a long time, but it is time that I tabled the amendment I had announced. This is the amendment which concerns cooperative banks and the grounds for the non-union of these banks, the forced merger of those cooperative banks with another bank, not necessarily cooperative ones. That's a condition that needs clarification. There was no further discussion at the meeting of the committee on this operation, on what group of cooperative banks this is supposed to be about and how it relates to the epics of the Polish Bank of Apex. Let me remind you that this House has lowered its capital requirements. This is the only bank that has benefited from the option of the cooperative banks law. The point is that an apex bank, which is only apex bank, can operate alongside existing cooperative banks associations. After all, the Senate amendment reduced the capital requirements for this bank by half. It is reasonable to note that since this bank is an app only bank and does not take deposits at its own risk, such high requirements as for other banks should not apply to it. This is an interesting epic. We'd love to know what's going on with this. Well, we get enough letters from cooperative banks, also from this apex bank to ask. So I am making this amendment in order to ask this at the committee's meeting to learn more about this plan for cooperative banks. And it is not what Senator Klich said during the discussion, who tried to interpret my actions, that I am convinced to the end that this amendment should continue. If, as a result of this discussion, which we will be discussing at the committee meeting, I get information that will make me feel that this amendment is not necessary, I will withdraw it. But I see the need for discussion, because I am concerned about the formal obstacles that this bank faces during the organization. At the committee meeting, I will ask other questions that the Minister will not be able to answer, but the representatives of the Committee on Financial Supervision and Banking Guarantee Fund will be able to answer these questions. We need to know what this is for. So I hereby make this amendment... [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. ...so we can keep working. Anyway, the committee's gonna meet anyway. I saw that Marshal Borusewicz had made other amendments just now, so I suppose tomorrow night... Senator Czarnobaj was also making amendments, so that tomorrow evening we will have the opportunity to discuss this at the committee meeting. But I will refer to the voices that were heard during the discussion. This is where they made, like, twice, statements about those who were fired for the JCC, for supervising the JCCs. It's such a cool story I saw in an article called "Okborcza Gazeta." Well, you can really believe anything, and as you look at it... In fact, not much. Oh, I'd say so. There are those who believe in everything, but most believe in little. I would like to say to you that Deputy Chairman, 'cause you're probably thinking about them, which is Mr. Kwaśniak... Yes? Mr. Gajek didn't take care of the SKOKs because he was an insurance guy. On the other hand, Mr Jakubiak's term of office has expired, Mr Jakubiak has finished his 5-year term, currently working at the bank, BRE Bank, which is currently in mBank, the Legal Department. This is the bank he was supervising earlier. I do not know if this is in line with the standards that apply in other countries. In other countries, the concept of deferred bribery, deferred corruption is used. It's true, isn't it? Who's supposed to... And there's a system of protection against this phenomenon. I'm not saying we're dealing with this phenomenon here. I'm saying this to make you remember... There, the person who supervised the entity shall not be allowed to work in that entity immediately after the completion of the surveillance work. It looks really bad, and it opens up a whole bunch of questions. And this is what Mr Jakubiak did, who has performed many times here in the Senate, and I had the opportunity to discuss with him. And he doesn't see the problem. But many see, many see. The European Commission recommends a period of several years between working in a supervisory institution and working in a subject from a sector that has been supervised. That's the point about standards. Mr Kwaśniak, whom we talked about, as far as I remember correctly and I am not mistaken, is an advisor at the National Bank of Poland, because he was an employee posted to KNF from the National Bank of Poland. And I don't think he's getting hurt. I respect this man very much, and I call his name only to denounce the absolute untruth. It's sad what happened to him, but he was attacked not by the authorities in the SKOK sector. He was attacked by the bad guys who stole from us. In this case, the SKOKs have the status of victims. So don't confuse these concepts, because then it's hard to tell who they stole from, right? So it's so... It's easy to say that these SCOCs cost 5 billion, but it's not like that, these 5 billions cost the work of the bad guys who, unfortunately, in these few cashiers, got caught up. Most of them are already in prison, so let's not look for any other guilty ones here. We're dealing with a common criminal case here. But for political purposes, I've been hearing this a lot lately, for example. Mrs Lubnauer used to say such things, in short, foolish things... Yes? She's been saying such stupid things. Well, the SKOK sector isn't guilty of being robbed. That was the ring, that was the ring. Where did this ring come from, who she drank with, who she photographed with? There are other stories in this case, of course, but let's leave this to the journalists. [[And who was supervising that?]] [[Mrs. Marshal, please pay your attention to the senator for this stupidity, because it doesn't seem so...]] [[Senator, you can judge things differently. I don't censor them.]] I take this view by Mrs Lubnauer, and I have taken the appropriate legal steps in this matter, so this is all happening formally too. So don't worry, Senator Zdrojewska... And I think it's an explanation for the SKOK-i waiver. You'll take it, too. Senator Czarnobaj said that the state failed in this case all along the line. Well, I am amazed by this statement, because we have not seen the reaction of the prime minister, the prosecutor's office, such a rapid reaction of all those who are responsible for the smooth functioning of the Polish state so far. During various other events it took much longer and those people who often sweated very much in front of the cameras, answering journalists' questions, were long defended. And finally, a joke about that mechanic. Well, he's at my level, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, when we're seriously talking about a serious case... We're talking about solving banking problems, about the BRR directive. She was accepted so that the cost of solving... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Okay, I'm almost done. ...banking problems were not at the expense of taxpayers. Thus, this directive allows the bank to be taken over by another bank for 1 euro. Because no one protects the interests of the bank owners. Everyone is interested in protecting the interests of depositors. The choice that European countries, and not only had during the financial crisis, was small: the money from the budgets came... And that burdened you and created a bigger debt. [[Mr. Senator...]] Now it's actually burdening the bank owners. And it is the owners of banks who should pay for 1 PLN or 1 euro if they cannot rule them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u248	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law is highly specialised and probably also a discussion at the committee meeting. Despite the fact that I am not a specialist in this field, this law, and the context of today's discussion, the context of what is happening around the law, prompts me to reflect on a few things. The first reflection is actually quite grim. The State of the opposition is talking a lot about the fact that there is an issue and that legislative action should be stopped at all, because we do not know what is happening. Perhaps it is, but I will admit that, after all, I would say that I sympathize with the attitude of the Minister. The state here says that it operates in a bubble or in some unrealized world, but for me it is an example of an official, a representative of a state institution, who does his job. That's how I understand it. I take it as a good coin. It is intended to promote the security of the financial market and the protection of investors' interests in the financial market. And as for the issue, about this context, as I said, I have a bleak reflection. In fact, since 2000, political history in Poland has become a story of building certain tensions and creating reality by exposing bugs, through actions from a semi-shadow It is not entirely known by whom through successive crises, subsequent changes in power. SLD Rywin's scandal, state government The Owl's affair or another... I hope that up to three times the charm and that it won't work that my formation will come out of this corner. But this is a grim reflection for me on how the Polish state works, how the services function. Who and how does it work? We don't know that. And even in this discussion, it turns out that we have some doubts. I share that doubt. We're not playing a game of music here, which we don't really know who's playing for us. That kind of doubt stays with all of this. But I'm leaving this on the side now. Second thought about the bill itself. The bill is supposed to work. That's how I understand it, and I take it as a good coin. For the security of bank deposits, especially from the point of view of depositories, the protection of deposits. This is an extremely important issue not only for interested persons or institutions, but in general because of a certain sense of public life security. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we also have a huge problem, not only in Poland... From this discussion, especially those words that fall from the opposition, that the Polish system completely failed... This is surprising and incomprehensible to me, because, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the functioning of banks and financial institutions at all, this is how I see things. Well, over the last few decades, something has happened to financial institutions, banks in the world. Banks and financial institutions in so to speak, normal reality is primarily based on trust. Right? When a man goes to a bank or maybe when he used to go to a bank, he was convinced that he had partners there who didn't play to trick him or screw him. If he wanted to do business, then, I don't know, in the PRL he went to exchange currency somewhere to the gate or on the street, taking some risks, or playing three cards on the street and also being aware of a certain risk. Well, we live in a world where... I do not want to offend many competent and certainly excellent bank workers here, but unfortunately, at present, after the Frankish cases etc. It could be multiplied. When we go to the bank and negotiate, we often don't know if we're just gonna get played. So something happened to the banking system and it was not only in Poland, and not even mainly in Poland. In the United States, in Europe. To some extent this is also the case in Poland, but fortunately, in my opinion, to a much smaller extent than in other, more civilized and richer countries. This raises the question of some extraordinary instruments to ensure the safety of citizens. And here's my question. Like I said, I'm not a specialist, and I didn't want to ask the minister anymore... I ask here in the context of the fact that banks or financial institutions in recent decades have actually squandered some trust capital on which they have been based for a long, long time. Well, I'm asking you about the cost of State security. From my point of view, the costs incurred by the state or public institutions to restore security and restore confidence are worryingly high and are increasing in a worrying way. There's this most controversial part of the bill about the possibility of expropriating bank owners. It violates some elementary sense, such an eternal belief that the owner can't just be expropriated from his possessions, even if it's a bank on the verge of bankruptcy. Turns out it's possible that in the public interest you can. But as I realized during this discussion and other conversations... This is not our Polish extraordinary invention, because in this way the European Union directive also regulates the matter. It is the reality in the European Union that if public institutions believe that the bank is on the verge of bankruptcy and is threatening public security, it can be expropriated in simplification. So this is one huge cost, because we shift responsibility or we give huge instruments to the state, to public authority, which is not always sacred either. Right? The nationalisation of banks or the nationalisation of financial institutions also has its weaknesses and this needs to be remembered. And finally, one more cost that was never mentioned here at all. That would also be a bit of a question to the Ministry of Finance. Namely, all institutions monitoring the operation of the financial sector, all institutions to ensure security, also cost, raise the costs of operating banks, which obviously must be shifted in one way or another also to those who use these banks. And I don't know if it's an example. one of the reasons that today in Poland even the difference between deposit rates and loan rates is astronomical and these forks are expanding more and more. It's also some kind of cost, huge cost, our desire for security. And it's worth paying attention to here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u250	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Some thoughts were expressed in a very wise and balanced way by my previous speaker, Senator Bobko, even if he extended some. I'll tell you why I've decided to take the floor. I am doing this because the statements of Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Zdrojewska, such a very political one, also contained various kinds of false information. I understand that the situation gives some conclusions to attack Law and Justice. If anyone has committed any crime, they will be responsible for it. Let's give the authorities time to act. Let's give special services time, let's give the prosecution time, and finally let's give it time to settle these issues. If this happens, you'll be able to do it. The courts, too. And then no one from the Law and Justice Neither the government nor the politicians of Law and Justice in general He won't defend the people who may have broken the law. We're saying "possibly," because for now there's an investigation, I understand, and we'll see what this investigation ends with. However, there are two elements that I would like to draw attention to. First of all, the first element that Senator Bobko was very much talking about. He used a key like this: trust. This is an important, important word in this context, because banks acted and acted on the basis of the word "trust." We are aware that if all depositaries had chosen their deposits from each bank, from the largest to the smallest, whether in Poland or in the United States, no bank would have survived. This trust in the banking sector must be. And that's why different kinds of solutions are being created in the European Union or in the United States to protect the banking system, because today banks Maybe it's wrong, but it is. They have such a position in the economic sector that their decline has huge consequences. In 2007, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Bank, the Americans found that even in the United States, the government could not afford a free market economy system for the collapse of the bank. And after that bank no other bank in the United States had fallen; they were subsidised, they were rescued by the United States government. The same thing happened in Europe when some banks were on the verge of collapse. A few years ago, the European Union, as President Grzegorz Bierecki said, changed this decision, because the rescue of banks through public money generally raised protests. Why should taxpayers' money be used to save banks? And it is all these resolutions, the directives that the European Union has prepared, that it is not the state, not the state's money, that taxpayers' money, not the banks that are bankrupt or threatened with bankruptcy, but that it is at the expense of owners and their interests to save the system, to save depositaries, to ensure the security of the financial system in individual countries. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, this amendment... You might wonder if she was happily reported or unhappyly, but I didn't hear in the media and I didn't hear in this room today, so that anyone - including Senator Czarnobaj. He challenged the essence of this record. The essence of this provision, i.e. that it is necessary to introduce substantive solutions that enable banks that are threatened with bankruptcy to be taken over by other banks. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking to the senator again here because I know he's an expert in finance. The solutions that we are restoring today in 2018 were in place until 2016. These solutions were in place until 2016. They've been... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, these solutions have worked, Mr. Senator, probably since 2007, 2008 the Minister can improve me when they ruled the SLD, the PiS, the Platform. For years. We have withdrawn them with the implementation of the EU Directive, and today we are restoring them in accordance with EU legislation. And if today I hear criticism of these solutions that it was in the second or third reading in the Seym, I can't remember, and whether these 3 readings were kept in the Seym... I'm not a lawyer. I don't want to talk about it. But no one questioned neither the Civic Platform nor the Members of the Civic Platform until this unfortunate conversation between Mr Chrzanowski and Czarnecki was revealed until the explosion... No one questioned in the Sejm when these regulations were reported, the substance of these regulations, because they guarantee some kind of security. And that's not true. Once again, I would like to say this very strongly from this tribune. That you can just take over a bank for 1 euro or a zloty. No, certain conditions must be met, namely that the sum of the capital in the bank will not meet certain requirements. It's not like somebody's gonna take over the bank today. Who? I don't know. Grzegorz Bierecki? Is Moravian going to take over the bank? If banks are taken over, banks in bankruptcy, which means banks aren't worth much, and they're going to be taken over by other banks. State, commercial. It's not gonna be like somebody's gonna put up that much money and take over the bank for a dollar. We know for ourselves how much the bank's shares are worth. Well, not much. Period. And these solutions... Sometimes, as I say, it's worth taking over a failing bank to maintain the system. And today these solutions also apply. You're still asking about the SKOKs, so I'll tell you one thing. Today, in the light of the current legislation, if the SKOK has a problem or is on the verge of bankruptcy, what is the first thing that is proposed before this bankruptcy? Well, you're looking for another money that's ready to take the money down. Ba, there's something else. We even put in place rules that allow money with problems to take over the bank. So you're looking for this entity that wants to take over the falling cash, first in the other SKOKs. It's kind of simple, because it's the same form of ownership. And if you don't find another money, another SKOK, you even look for banks. And there were banks that supported in these situations. SKOK-i. There were SCOCs who were threatened with bankruptcy, and they were accepted by other SCOCs, and the ones that took over the banks. And the same mechanism we're putting in here. It's not like somebody here is taking a rarity. 'Cause maybe if the bothererer doesn't find out, we're gonna have to take another step. If one of the banks stands on the verge of bankruptcy and there's no other bank that's gonna want to take it, then the bank either falls or the state has to save it. Because we're talking about situations like this. We're not talking about situations like this that someone who's a successful bank can take over for a dollar. That's it. I think Senator Czarnobaj knows this, but it sells nicely in politics, because there's a nice shortcut in the media: we make it possible to accept well-functioning banks for gold. That's one thing... Well, I'm not talking about the whole procedure, the possibility of appealing, looking at hands, etc., etc. Right, Senator. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's one thing. But there's another point, the political one that the senator was talking about. Well, on the one hand, you say we're dealing with the biggest issue, and on the other hand, you say this: until an independent court is prosecuting someone with a final sentence, this person is innocent. We showed some kind of standards, even though Mr. Mark Chrzanowski had no charges. Just so there is no doubt, after talking to Mr Chrzanowski, the Prime Minister accepted his resignation. Mr Chrzanowski resigned, although from a formal legal point of view, it was not possible for Mr Chrzanowski to "Even in quotes" To force Mr. Czarnecki to resign. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with when it comes to NIK. This is a different situation. You said that until Mr. Kwiatkowski is convicted of a final sentence, he's innocent. And that's the truth. And Mr. Kwiatkowski continues, right? You defended him, Dear Senators, as representatives of the Civic Platform, even though the guy... I don't know if he's guilty or innocent, but this case is already at a different stage because he's being charged and now there's a case in court. We'll see what the court order is. Well, you defended him, you said he wasn't to be called off. Were there any appeals made by Mr. Schetin or Mr. Tusk at the time that Mr. President NIK resigned because he was charged? No, you defended him because he's innocent because there's no final judgment. A dot. By the way, it's about some kind of standards. If you're talking about politics, we've shown this standard... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...that if any shadow falls, then such a person is immediately eliminated, even if later it turns out that she was innocent. [[Mr. Senator...]] One last sentence, Mrs. Marshal. I'm not gonna take advantage of that second vote anymore. You're talking about the biggest financial scandal, the biggest scandal at all. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a certain proportion. I don't want to appeal to history, but he's asking me to talk about all sorts of gigantic issues. I do not mention FOZZ, in which hundreds of millions of zlotys were brought out of the Polish state, or even about this affair... How many millions, billions of zlotys are left... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...in a reprivatization affair. And what was Mr Tusk calling off his constitutional ministers for? Do you remember... [[Time.]] ...when they met at the cemetery or under the gas station? Well, they were canceled. Yes? [[Mr. Senator, time.]] I don't remember if Mrs. Zdrojewska or Mr. Czarnobaj... That was the giant, biggest thing in history? With all due respect to Mr. Chrzanowski However, it was only an official, not a constitutional minister. [[Time.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u252	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, you're welcome. Five minutes, Mr. Senator. Yes? [[Yeah, I'm in a hurry.]] Okay, well, hurry up. [[I understand that if I start...]] I'll count from here on out. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u253	Okay, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator, I think we've been to a variety of debates. I will no longer refer to these stories with these cemeteries, because we would find them both on one side and on the other. That's life. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm supposed to be quiet, I get it. But all you have to do is keep your mouth shut. One must speak and the other keep quiet. Some adopt directives that go somewhere from Nowogrodzka or elsewhere, while others discuss. Well, sorry, that's life. [[Time's running out.]] As for the question of what you have raised, the question of the substance of the record, I ask you once again, Senator, to understand what we are talking about here. I didn't hear a word in the debate about anyone questioning the substance of the record. So what are you talking about here? I want to say that the takeover of banks was until 2016... After all, we talked about it for about three hours during this debate and everyone knows it. If you weren't here and you just came to the discussion... Well, maybe in the meantime you found out. We discussed this, that these provisions were until 2016 etc. So do you understand the essence of the matter we're talking about? We're talking about it. And the Minister spoke about it. How law was created in this regard. And we're saying one thing here, I mean. As for the essence of the entire bill, we say that it is definitely good, it will bring many good solutions. Besides, the opinions of the banking community and others were also good. Well, only those records of the transfer for a dollar, so made, so incorporated, raise doubts, at least doubt. I'm not talking about the affair you're talking about, it's the biggest thing... no, it's not the biggest one. But please point out to me officials from 30 years of free Poland, since 1989... What time did he stay, so to speak, caught red-handed as a high-ranking clerk? I don't recall that. If that's what we're talking about... And you say, some clerk, head of KNF, some clerk. That's what shows you don't understand the problem. This is the man to whom people must have the greatest confidence, he should be more holy than the Pope! I don't know what other comparisons I'm supposed to use here. And it's not a big deal, but it's the most serious thing in the Republic! Please understand that. And it's not about how much money is involved, it's about how it was done, what it was said, how it was talked about and how the law is being built in Poland. I already thought that things like "or magazines" had already ended in Poland, and yet not, because something is given to the Member, he reports it and does not even know what he reports when he reports it, who gave it to him, who prepared it. Is this the way to create law in Poland? No! Now that it's time for the service. Of course... I'm already overlooking who's overseeing this service. And the same man supervises, accounts... Well, I'm even skipping the point, the thing is, it's all in one hand. But we're talking about something else, we're talking about getting to the bottom of the law. Now it's a matter of whether this man can serve or not. I didn't demand his resignation. He's dismissed himself. I didn't defend or defend Mr. Kwiatkowski either. He's defending himself. Well, if his arguments are correct, then he's still in position. Well, I'll skip the political agenda... Now, two more words, if your marshal will allow me, in relation to what your professor, Senator, has said. Mr. Senator, you failed. I quote here what was being discussed by all the committees, because your representatives in committees, in these special committees, kept quoting the phrase "State failed," showing various instruments. Well, I think the state has failed here as well. And already pushing it to push it, it shows that you are completely failing. But with the fact that matter is delicate and requires a long reflection, analysis, I agree completely, Professor. Let's not rush into a case that raises so much doubt. There's a corruption problem, so let the services explain it, let the committee of inquiry rise up to show us what the instruments were working here. Last sentence on Senator Bierecki's words. He's not here, but I hope he hears. Because he said that when someone stole 5 billion zlotys in SKOKs, she stole a ring. Hey, hey, hey, hey, No, not the SKOK employees, that's where the ring came in. But when it comes to Amber Gold, it's not a ring anymore! Oh, that's... These guys were connected to Tusk, they were definitely up to something with Tusk... [[And my son.]] ...and there with the others. Right? Look how cool the thought design is: by chance there was a ring in the SKOKs, she took five big ten, but in the other case, it's not, oh, there's some smart guy... That's why I'd like these things to... [[There's no one who owns it.]] ...take the same measure, don't make quick accusations. There is also one issue that is most important in this whole matter. The security of the state's finances is paramount, so in order to calm the situation, in addition to the work on staff elements, which was also mentioned here. You have to say: okay, there are huge doubts As for making the law, let's leave it, so let's lead the other way. Finally, what you said and what many people have been talking about here, also Mr. Rulewski... [[It's been five minutes, Mr. Senator.]] Now, the last two sentences, Mrs. Marshal, please. [[But it's been five minutes...]] I swear, the last two sentences. This isn't about taking the opportunity to take over the banks for cash, Mr. Senator. As you rightly pointed out, it was until 2016. I, too, advocate that there be different possibilities. But the point is that the elements of the procedure, the criteria of this procedure are set out in the Act, so that the details are written in the Minister's regulation, which we also have, and not in such a way that it creates the possibility of taking over for gold, of course there must be different conditions, but we know how this can be fulfilled. Then Kazik and Antek will do everything they can to violate these criteria so that it can be taken over. If this is not the case, then let us not create such opportunities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u254	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, five minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Senator Bobka for always presenting a point of view here, which is not a party point of view, but a reflection on what is happening in Poland. And I'd like to say that I'm always happy to listen to that. At the same time, I am terrified and anxious to listen to these statements, which are simply party messages, which we need to listen to here, for example. That there was no big deal. Senator Bierecki even said there was no recording at all. These are the messages we're witnessing. This is a grim reality. And in a moment, you will change the bill that you voted unanimously... [[About the Supreme Court.]] Yes, the Supreme Court. And then we'll laugh at you, really. And now I'm addressing Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. Senator, don't lecture me here. I'm the senator of the first term, so I don't know why you're identifying me with some kind of scandal, something like that. The only issues I've been able to look at over the last few years are your scandals, yes, your scandals, made by the power that is right now. And these are the issues of breaking the constitution, the most serious things that... So I agree with you that this case is not the most serious one. This is not the most serious issue of your governments, because they were more serious, those about breaking the constitution and destroying our state's system, destroying the judiciary, etc. But let's leave it alone, because there'll still be an opportunity to talk about it when this bill comes to us. And why is this a big deal? I'll explain again why this is such a big deal. Because it concerns an institution that should be beyond all suspicions. It turned out that people sitting in such an institution, the head of such an institution can be appointed even with not quite clear qualifications... that such a person also has not quite the moral qualifications that such a person was out there, I don't know, accused of plagiarism or something, I don't want to get into it anymore. It's just that this kind of staff policy, your staff policy has some sort of impact, and then you have this kind of thing. It's always... I don't believe, Senator, that this affair will be explained because you can see the connections that are here, certain threads. This will never be explained, because we have a personal connection, it's some kind of web, an octopus that's out there somewhere in certain offices. We're dealing with nepotism that came out on this occasion. If there were to be any good action here, it would not only be the resignation of the head of KNF, but also a reflection on the role of the President of the National Bank of Poland in this situation, Mr.Glapiński, who has so far defended the head of KNF, I do not know why. And think about it. Think about where all this goes if the D.A.'s office hasn't responded for so long if the CBA hasn't reacted properly. It allowed you to clean your desk, let you clean your apartment, and then it came in. Service didn't work here. The state didn't work here, and the person who's the biggest suspect got an umbrella for a week. It's the only way to talk about it. I don't think you're gonna be able to explain this matter. It will be necessary to set up a committee of inquiry to deal with this, and the highest officials will be questioned. And the role of the Ministry of Finance in all this... I'll say the Minister's speech was appalling. I think a representative of the Ministry of Finance should come to us and say, "Sorry, it's wrong." We are the creators of a legal system that, as it were, allowed such pathology... [[Senator, time.]] ...like a pathology with the head of KNF. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u256	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Bogdan Borusewicz, Leszek Czarnobaj and Grzegorz Bierecki. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The text of the act is contained in print No. 998 and the report of the committee In print No 998 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals has 2 objectives. There are two essential elements here. The first element is the introduction of a new tax relief, a thermomodernization relief. The aim here is, of course, to encourage owners of houses or single-family buildings to thermomodernize. This relief will, of course, concern those objects which already function, which were built there once and which will be subjected to thermomodernization. Of course, there is a certain amount of this relief. It will amount to PLN 53,000. Of course, this relief seems to fit in with the challenges we face. On the one hand, it is smog and, on the other hand, specific requirements related to ecology. It is worth warming up our buildings so that the energy consumption is lower. This relief, of course, provides such encouragement. The second element in this law is the introduction of tax exemption from income tax subsidies obtained from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and voivodship environmental protection funds. It's about the famous government program. It's about clean air. If someone were to receive such a relief today, they would have to pay a subsidy tax in the light of the legislation currently in force. We want the Act to enter into force on 1 January and that people who benefit from the Government's Clean Air programme, the programme for more than PLN 100 billion, which is worth noting, do not have to pay tax on these subsidies. These 2 elements concern the contested law. It was, of course, a government project. The law was adopted unanimously at a committee meeting. The motion for adoption of the law without amendment was submitted by President Grzegorz Bierecki. Of course, as part of the discussion... Maybe it's different. The Legislative Office submitted 5 comments to the Act. All these comments were of a more precise, technical legislative nature. They were not of a substantive nature, that is, they did not catch any mistakes. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy Minister, stated that all these comments did not have any effect that would prevent the adoption of the Act and that we want the Act to enter into force on 1 January so that In particular, this applies to the latter element of the contract-signing persons who do not have to pay the grant tax. Of course, on 1 January this is a very important date for the entry into force of this law. The point is that taxpayers who would like to benefit from the thermomodernization relief already know how much they will be able to pay for it. It's a remark worth mentioning. The Minister has committed himself... One of the comments of the Legislative Bureau was that the law is written in a very complicated language. Some of the comments made by the Legislative Bureau were about simplifying or clarifying the law to make it more understandable, so to speak. The Ministry of Finance has declared that it will present certain guidelines on the website of the Ministry in a very simple language, so that everyone can... present clear, common, understandable language quite complicated records that must be... Well, we're talking laws here. We want them to be realized and there are no more gates. Like I said, the bill was passed. The discussion was attended by two senators, Senator Kleina and Senator Jacek Włosowicz. Senator Kleina raised the question of how the bill could be used in the case of people who run business in single-family homes, and gave an example of renting rooms by the sea. The Minister calmed down and explained in very detail that such persons would also be able to benefit from the thermomodernization relief. They will also be able to benefit from grants and exemptions for grants. As far as clean air is concerned, I remember that it appears that there may be 30% on the business... In order to benefit from this grant, a single-family building can be used 30% on the business activity. Of course, different forms of taxation produce specific effects using reliefs. That's it. The bill received a positive opinion from the committee. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u258	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No questions.]] Thank you... [[There it is, there it is.]] Is it? Yes? Senator Mammoth, I'm sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u259	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question: will this relief concern the maximum amount to be used for... I don't know. There's, like, 51,000 zlotys in there. And is it the same as the person who uses the minimum... I mean. He's got a lot of income and he benefits, for example, I don't know, with 3,000... Will that relief be in the same height?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u260	The relief is up to 53 thousand PLN. To benefit from relief, first of all, you have to have income. Depending on this, it will be... and, secondly, you have to make a specific investment. And it's only then that amount can be deducted. Thus, on the one hand, it will determine the size of the thermomodernization investments, and on the other hand, The amount of income. Well, you can't deduct more expenses than the amount of income you have. However, it is determined that regardless of what investments we make and what income we will have, this relief must not exceed the amount of PLN 53 000. But of course she could be smaller. If someone has less income, they will use this relief in a proportional lower amount. [[I'm sorry... so, I understand that the entire 100 billion zloty will be...]] But, Senator, you were talking about the second element, namely the Clean Air program. And here the subsidy can be up to 90%, depending on the income. And there's an element, so that the people who got the grant, for example. 90% or 30% This is based on income ♪ or 40% there ♪ Because there are thresholds, they didn't have to pay tax on this grant. This is the second element. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u261	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: No.]] No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 1000 and the report of the committee In print No 1000 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law was examined by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances. All the provisions of this law, which are very numerous, aim to strengthen certain supervision of the National Tax Administration and to extend the powers of the National Tax Administration, to give new competences in the field of information acquisition, to strengthen supervision. This law or this amendment of the Act is in line with the whole sequence of government actions concerning strengthening the National Tax Administration in order to prevent tax fraud in various areas. It was, of course, a government bill. To this law, our Legislative Office submitted 10 proposals for amendments, 10 comments. They were of a different nature: more precise, complementary, uniform. There's been a long discussion on this bill. The Ministry of Finance did not agree to any of the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau, claiming that they were not necessary. Besides, our Legislating Bureau for these 10 amendments... Not each of these comments ended with a draft amendment, because there were no proposals for amendments in its comments No 5 and there were only some suggestions, questions to the Ministry in the context of these comments. A letter was also received from the Office for Personal Data Protection. Unfortunately, this letter was received at the last minute. The Minister said he didn't know what it was. The letter was received literally a few hours before the beginning of the committee meeting, so we were not all able to get to know the comments of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection so precisely. The Minister present at the committee meeting assured that the draft law was consulted with the President or more specifically with the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection and that, as far as possible, these comments were submitted... Given that the letter had been received so late to the committee, President Grzegorz Bierecki asked the senators to get acquainted with it and, if any, if any comments were made, these amendments could be addressed in the debate. The debate was attended by only 1 senator, Senator Włosowicz, who took over the proposed amendments 1 and 4 of the Legislative Office. Mr Bierecki made a motion to adopt the law without amendments and Mr Bierecki's proposal was accepted, so we have not voted on these amendments 1 and 4. The proposal to adopt the law without amendments was accepted and is a positive opinion of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u263	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: No.]] No. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Blackbay. We invite the Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u264	Minister, could you give us a closer look at the rules of service in Customs, the modification of the rules for determining the controller's and the court's allowance? As if in two words you could approximate what this modification is about today's functioning record... That's one thing. Secondly, extending the possibility of promotion to a higher degree without the required period of service. Why are you doing this? What's that supposed to do? E.g. The time of service was important for promotion, and you want to change this situation, which I understand is to be able to reward in the form of promotion of people who work short. But what is at the root of this enlargement? And one more question, Minister. Reading the discussion that was in the Sejm about the bank accounts... Is it true that now it will be possible to request information about bank accounts at any stage and for every reason? Are there any objections in this regard, in the sense of procedure? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: Could you further clarify the second question? Okay? Because I'd like to answer that question in detail.]] Minister, with regard to the rules of service in the Customs and Customs Service, it is written: extending the possibility of promotion to a higher degree without the required period of service. What is meant by shortening the service...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u265	Thank you very much. Thank you, I get it. I'm answering the first question. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, first of all, I would like to stress that these changes, which are now being proposed, these changes which have already been adopted by the Sejm, are changes which concern mainly the improvement of the operation of the National Tax Administration, the sealing of the tax system. And so, above all, we have to look at it. And as far as the first question is concerned, the audit allowances or any kind of additional remuneration when we talk about the activities of the National Tax Administration, we want to base on actual actions, real activities of officers, employees, civil servants. That's what we're going to do, and that's where we're going. E.g. Today's bill, the bill, is part of this direction of action. It is therefore necessary to implement the activities of employees and officers and to better motivate these officials and employees of the National Tax Administration service. And that's the main goal, that's the most important one. As far as the second point is concerned, this is about the continuation of the first, i.e. the motivation to act. We don't have to wait for years, for a while, to find that an officer is acting really well, works very well, has very good results, which distinguishes him from the actions of other officers. Therefore, it seems to me, and even I am sure, that we should apply here some more incentive option, which will encourage officers to do better, to better service for the good of the Republic. As far as the third point is concerned, it's... Of course I understand that the senator may have thought of something a little different. This isn't about seeing bank accounts. Because we have access to bank accounts. This is about organizing the system of using this access to bank accounts so that we can act in accordance with the letter of law, in accordance with the principles of the democratic state. Therefore, the Act clarifies the principles of operation of the National Tax Administration when we have access to a bank account. Here, in the bill, are already more detailed these requirements specified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u266	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u267	Dear Minister, as far as the audit allowance is concerned, you have said: we will be rewarded for real activity. Of course, I'm asking these questions as a person who's never had any contact with it, either from a controlled point of view or... Well, I've never been to the IRS. Let's call it that in a nutshell. So I'm not familiar with this situation. I'm more familiar with her from certain events. Can action be regarded as a real activity, Minister, in the following situation? Here the inspector detects any inconsistencies there, it seems to be the decision to refund the amounts due, as regards taxes, the controller gets the remuneration, because, as the Minister said, it does work, but after 3 or 4 years it turns out that the court finds that there is absolutely no reason here to force the tax office to impose any penalty or seizure of any account. Do you believe that this kind of action is a real action, or... At what point will this controller get this reward for real action?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u268	I'm answering. Real action is an action that gives real revenue to the state budget in a lawful manner. We mean not the court you mentioned here, i.e. not individual cases, but more practice that took place in earlier years, in 2013, 2014, 2015, when we had virtual footnotes to the state budget when we had many billions allocated... It is about tax footnotes, about arrears in relation to tax pillars of entities that did not actually exist. We had a lot of backlogs and we didn't have the opportunity to enforce those backlogs because they were pillars, as I said before. In this respect, we are very keen not to do unrealistic measures, especially those which cause huge losses to the state budget, which cause unnecessary involvement of the tax services, which cause unnecessary ferment. And mostly that's what I'm talking about. There are indeed cases where the court adjudicates on a case-by-case basis... It's often right, but it happens that against these regulations, the decisions of the tax authorities or other tax authorities... This is happening, mistakes happen. The court's final ruling is that... But I wouldn't talk about individual things here. First of all, I would talk about those things that caused so much trouble, which we are talking about at the moment, about the previous years when it comes to sealing the tax system, about how much there were then questionable actions by the tax services, and the officials, despite these questionable actions, were extremely well rewarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u269	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Czarnobaj signed up for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to give you and you some insights about everyday life. I, of course, agree with the Minister that all that concerns the prosecution of tax offenders... that such persons should be prosecuted with all determination. I am waiting for someone to say about Poland that Poland is a country where only two things are certain: that we will die, and that we will pay taxes. This is the right direction, which I also sign up for, but I want to ask you something else, Minister. You can do things that with sealing They'll have nothing in common, you can do things that... I'm not gonna talk about the details so I don't go into politics, I'm just gonna quote Mr. Kluski's casus, if I remember his name correctly. This is an example of how, as part of a good intention to increase the state's revenue, the company has fallen. When you watch a movie, the closed system, which was filmed on the canvas of these authentic events... This story isn't made up. I just want to say that what concerns strict action against persons who commit tax offences is a thing that everyone subscribes to, but there is a question of the type that makes it possible for the state to have certain safeguards so that situations where... You say mistakes happen. Minister, I know that it's easy for us people who aren't in business to say, well, it's a mistake, but it can happen to anyone. I would like this kind of thinking to be far-reaching officials, especially those services that you represent. Where like where, but in your business, a mistake cannot happen. And that's why I asked about this reward system. It's human and normal: if they reward me when I detect something, I'll detect it. And then it turns out that I was wrong after all? It's okay, it's okay. Mistakes happen. And, Minister, not to look far, a trivial, trivial example. After all, the ladies with the light bulb... Of course, this is a very trivial example. Those ladies who went with that light bulb. ♪ I suspect ♪ They are eligible for a reward because they have detected a very important loss of income. However, I would prefer, Minister, that the tax office or, according to the nomenclature, the National Tax Administration act according to the system, as if sharing the currents of action. One thing, as the Minister said, are pillars, i.e. people committing various kinds of... or doing everything to deceive the Polish state in terms of paying taxes. Well, this is where you have to act with a lot of... otherwise, with all the ruthlessness. But I think a hundred taxpayers are people who, in a fair and normal way, pay taxes. And what I want to say is that I talk primarily to people who do business for many years. Their feelings... Maybe they're wrong, but I'm talking about their feelings. They say that when it comes to treating them as potential people who can, as they say, turn something on taxes, it hasn't happened yet. If we add to the fact that now any official with an I.D. will be able to come in and do what he thinks is appropriate In short: entering the I.D. This reminds me of previous times, when such a long card with the inscription "IRS employee" opened everything in Poland. And my questions and doubts go in that direction. If we add the information I've read, I don't know how much truth is in it, I couldn't be in committee for family reasons... I'm reading a record of a discussion that was held in the Seym. In fact, even for more detailed analytical reasons, a government official will have access to accounts, and a national administration employee will have access to accounts. It also creates the possibility to use for various purposes... And that is why the essence of the state is that the state pursues with all ruthlessness criminals, but also the state with great determination protects a decent citizen from not inspiring such situations, as I said, like the one with a light bulb for 5 PLN or 10 PLN, two instances or until all instances are exhausted, to punish such a taxpayer. Therefore, the development of these systems that you have been talking about is important in these passages. Because the law to prosecute citizens is not a good law. It is a law too repressive and with various human weaknesses I am not talking about political weaknesses, but about various weaknesses. It can be used for bad purposes. And that's why it's important to have a system to protect against mistakes, resentment, actions for other reasons. And that's what I'm considering. Creating such a system, which is too repressive a system, leads to some other effects. And I personally completely sign off on the fact that what concerns the prosecution of those who evade or even cheat on the payment of taxes... As I said before, we will see such times that in Poland these two segments of certainty, one of which is paying taxes, will be a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u271	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As announced earlier, we will now proceed with the examination of point 11 and points on ratification, i.e. points twenty-seven, twenty-eight and twenty-nine. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 1008, and the committee's report In print No 1008 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions... [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter...]] Yes? [[Mr. Marshal, I was so reminded that you didn't ask the Minister if he wanted to address the discussion. But that's hard enough. It's gone.]] [[If the Minister wanted to...]] Look at the rules. I ask when there are legislative proposals. Then the Minister has the right to respond to these requests. And you haven't made any such requests, let me remind you. [[Just?]] [[Talk to the minister if you want.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Marek Pęka, to present a report to the committee. It's good to see your senator healthy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u272	You too, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and to the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 9 November this year on the amendment of the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts. The law adopted by the Sejm provides for amendments to the rules governing the control of visa decisions issued by the consulate by guaranteeing the possibility of bringing an appeal before the court in respect of the issue of visas. The Court of Justice of the European Union of 13 December 2017 held that the procedure for issuing the visa referred to in Article was the case in the Court of Justice of the European Union's judgment of 13 December 2017. 2 of the Visa Code, so-called Schengen visas, at a certain stage of the procedure, should guarantee an appeal to the court. Following a judgment delivered on 21 December 2017, the European Commission sent a letter to the Polish Government requiring the Polish authorities to submit proposals for amendments in this respect so that Polish law would be in line with the ruling I had said. On the basis of the current legal provisions, the administrative courts are competent only for visas issued to a foreigner who is a family member of a citizen of a Member State of the European Union, a Member State of the European Free Trade Agreement, parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation. As far as it is concerned, the law extends the scope of the cognition of the administrative court to matters relating to Schengen visas referred to in Article. 2 points 2.1/5 of the Visa Code. In the proposed legal situation, the administrative court will have jurisdiction in the case of a complaint against a decision to refuse a visa, revoke or revoke a Schengen visa and for the activities of a consul in that respect. The competent administrative court in which the office serving the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs is situated will be the competent administrative court in the cases in question. The Act is to enter into force 2 months after the date of the announcement. As regards the course of the committee meeting itself, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ms Beata Brzywczy, Deputy Director of the Consular Department, a representative of the European Commission and a representative of the Supreme Bar Council were present in addition to the senators. In addition, the Director discussed the most important procedural provisions of the amendment in detail. Among these regulations or solutions... Maybe I'll just mention that, in the context of court proceedings, the consul's duties will be performed by a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The competent court referred to in the Act will, of course, be the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw. This, of course, is intended to improve the conduct of the procedure itself. In view of the practical considerations that come down to the fact that we have a multitude of bodies, i.e. a number of consuls, it was decided that these activities would be carried out by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is about ensuring proper preparation of the documentation, which is addressed to the courts. At the same time, control and supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be ensured over the activities carried out by consuls. The party to the proceedings, as I said, will continue to be the consul, but represented by the minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who is properly empowered. The draft also derogated from the rule laid down in the Law on proceedings before administrative courts that the reply to the action and the file of the case shall be brought before the courts within 30 days of its receipt. It is proposed here to extend this deadline to 60 days from the date of the complaint to the consul, which is also due to the dispersal of consular offices, difficulties in communication, in the circulation of documents. Actually, it's all material. This law did not raise any controversy at the meeting, nor did it raise any controversy with the Senate legislature, and therefore it was put to the vote and adopted without amendments, which I, as rapporteur, also recommend to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1012 and the report of the committee In print No 1012 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers with accompanying parties! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the joint committees, a report on the Law on ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. After considering the law at its meeting today, the committees request the adoption of the attached draft resolution. Maybe I'll just say a few words about what these changes are going to be all about. The Kigali amendments complement the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer. The Montreal Protocol's commitment to developed countries, including Poland, focuses on the total reduction in production and consumption of 40 ozone-depleting substances, so-called. controlled substances. In addition, the provisions of the Protocol introduce mechanisms for market surveillance of controlled substances in the form of annual reporting and licensing of imports and exports of controlled substances, including mixtures containing them. The Kigali amendments were agreed at a meeting of the parties to the Kigali Protocol in Rwanda in October 2016 and will enter into force on 1 January 2019. This is another revision of the Montreal Protocol. All 4 amendments previously adopted have been ratified by Poland. The Kigali amendments have introduced the following additions to the protocol. The list of controlled substances has been extended by 19 substances from the group of hydrofluorocarbons, from the English HFC, used similarly as substitutes for ozone-depleting substances, but which are greenhouse gases with very high global warming potential values, which are very strongly affecting climate change. Schedules for the reduction of these substances have been introduced for developed and developing countries. The obligation to submit annual reports to the Ozone Secretariat for reports on the production, import and export of HFC substances has been extended. The obligation to license imports has been extended... The withdrawal of HFCs in developing countries was covered by the Multilateral Protocol Fund. Poland, as a Member State of the European Union, fulfils all the obligations relating to the withdrawal of HFCs resulting from European Union legislation, which are already more restrictive than those arising from the Kigali amendments, and therefore ratification of amendments will not result in any legislative or additional obligations for entrepreneurs for Poland. The amendment has already been ratified by 60 countries, including most of the Member States of the European Union. The issue of climate protection is also important in the context of ratification. HFCs as greenhouse gases with a very significant impact on climate change are also covered by the Climate Convention and the Kyoto Protocol. The Kigali amendments do not change this state, they only introduce a special approach to their faster withdrawal from the market. In view of this and in the context of the forthcoming COP24 meeting, the climate conference hosted by Poland, the ratification of the amendments from Kigali will be an additional element showing the international community's commitment to the fight against climate. Therefore, the adoption of the ratification act is most appropriate. Thank you very much... Oh, I'm sorry, I'll add that there's been no discussion. The Commission has unanimously adopted the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994. The text of the law is contained in print 1013, and the report of the committee In print No 1013 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 11 to 20 minutes 22]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994. This agreement is similar to previous agreements that we have resigned from in recent Senate meetings within the European Union. The functioning of such agreements is not required and the European Union recommends that they be successfully resolved. The Commission agreed to this position. There was no discussion. So that the committee recommends that the High House support this ratification.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u277	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and conclusion of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1014 and the report of the committee In print No 1014 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This ratification is similar to ratification of the termination of the agreement with the Government of Romania. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union therefore recommends that the Senate also adopt this ratification without comment. There was no discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-senat-67-1.u279	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm gonna schedule a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 25]]
