ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u1	Resume session. And I'm declaring a recess, or I'm actually extending it to 10:15. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 05 to 10 minutes 17]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u2	I'm reopening the session. High Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act on the Promotion of New Investments No. 821 and considering this item as item of the 25th agenda; the Act amending the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity and certain other acts of the Act of Print No. 814 and considering this item as item of the twenty-sixth agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can't hear you objecting. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposals. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Law on the Promotion of New Investments. The text of the Act is contained in print No 821, and the report of the committee In print No 821 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This morning there was a joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please silence the conversation!]] ...and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, on the examination of the Law on the Promotion of New Investments; Senate Printing No. 821, Seym Printing No. 2307, 2483 and 2483-A. The Act deals with special economic zones and turns Poland into one big economic zone. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, senators, those on the left and right side of the room, please do not speak out loud, because it disturbs the rapporteur.]] The bill was designed to adapt to the needs of the instrument in the form of tax reliefs for entrepreneurs planning new investments across the country and not, so far, in special economic zones. The new regulation is the result of government work to adapt tools in the form of incentives to invest for entrepreneurs in the new economic reality to the completely new challenges we are currently facing. The instruments in the form of tax permits will now be available for new investments that will cover the creation of a new production plant and investment, while the conditions for obtaining public aid will depend on the rate of unemployment in the district and adapted to the size of the entrepreneur. This will apply to investments that meet the quantitative criteria in terms of investment expenditures... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I appeal to the marshal and the senator: I'm sorry, gentlemen, they have such tuba voices that even a whisper is audible.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me.]] [[Absolutely. Right, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Thank you on behalf of the rapporteur. Now we're gonna hear it. Please.]] Thank you very much. ...and quality criteria, in line with the strategy of responsible development. There was a very long discussion. There were a lot of questions. They've all been explained. The Act was adopted by committees without amendments, with 1 abstention and 1 against the Senator. I recommend that the High House adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u4	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I see you're reporting for Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u5	Mr President, I could not be at the committee meeting, but the senator confirmed that all Poland is to be this area. Does this mean that if a foreign investor arrives, it will already be considered that every municipality meets those requirements that have been quite high so far in terms of creating economic zones? Today, the economic zone in my city is 2 such zones, connected not only with the simple separation of territory, but also with the provision of suitable accesses, conditions for investment, etc. That was a total zone. And now, as this whole territory, I don't really understand how it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u6	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u7	Thank you very much. Senator, this law mainly concerns Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, and all special economic zones continue to exist and the entrepreneur can turn to the economic zone in which he intends to invest, so that there is no problem here. But a special body will be called. I don't know where it's coming from. - which will be required to record all land for investment purposes. And here there is a chapter, because local governments continue to maintain the competences they have and new investment areas will be manageable under the new law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u8	Your question is Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u9	Mr. Senator, I have a question about, as I recall, Art. 3, which refers to an exception: that this Poland, which is to be one big zone, will not be the zone in those places where there are potential deposits. The problem is that the definition of deposit is... that it can be both gold and sand or gravel, but also that deposits are at very different depths. There is quite a fear of local government officials from the Copper Basin that it will basically eliminate the possibility of creating new investments benefiting from these preferences in this area, because there are either pavements being prepared there or there are deposits that can be mined in the future. Often these are deposits at a depth of 2 or 3 km, and therefore in the case of investments it is not as if it is important. Wouldn't it be better to throw this article away and put it under some kind of tightening in a regulation to control our deposits as part of national wealth? Was there even a discussion about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u10	No, Mr. Senator, there was no discussion. As far as I know, this problem has been resolved in the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u11	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I did not ask this question at the committee meeting, but I would like to ask it to you as President. When we got it, did you, as chairman of the committee, get the bill? That's one thing. Second: were the invitations sent to Polish entrepreneurs' environments, Polish entrepreneurs' organizations for the meeting of our committees?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u13	Given that no one was there, I don't think there was time to invite the social side. I read the bill last night.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u14	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u15	If you don't mind... Mr. Senator, I'm not asking you when you got to know her, I'm asking you this. If you don't mind, I'm asking for an answer. When she went to committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u16	I don't know. I'm not answering that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u17	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u18	Mr President, Mr Senator, you have had a difficult role, and maybe that's why you're giving such up-to-date answers... or revolutionary answers. You said that this law is intended for small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs. How, then, does this raise the question: does this mean discrimination against other entrepreneurs, especially entrepreneurs from the European Union, and a violation of the principle of freedom of movement of capital? In particular, how did you... Will there be a mirrored Polish company, in which it is e.g. share of foreign capital? And the second issue, as it were, from philosophy. Well, special zones are created to favor, help favor. So it's a selective choice. What it will be about now is privileged and choice, selection, since everyone will be able to benefit from it, even those who are not invited, for apologies, from the economy, who, for example. will they apply for land on a reduced basis and do nothing for a few years? That's the second question. And three: are we, then, at risk of being Hong Kong Europe?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u19	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u20	Thank you very much. That's the kind of threat I'd actually like to have in Hong Kong. I wish we were such a Hong Kong Europe. As far as investment by companies is concerned, this is mainly about the exemption from real estate tax. The trader shall report to a special economic zone and within this economic zone shall be completed with documents and state aid rules. [[So, everybody's...]] Everyone...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u21	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u22	Mr. Senator, you're talking about local governments that nothing's gonna change. I have a question: has this law been consulted with regional and district governments? 'Cause that includes... And if she was consulted, what was the opinion of the local authorities on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u24	I don't know what the opinion was, but the director of the Ministry of Development said that this bill had matured for two years and two years there was a discussion with the social side.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u25	The question is... Does anyone else come forward to ask a question? Senator Blackbay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm going to refer to what you said. In which part of this bill is addressed only to Polish entrepreneurs? Could you point that out or say it in general? Because I didn't hear anything like that at the committee meeting. And if I've misheard, I'm asking for an explanation. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask you about the issue of what you were talking about, which is real estate tax. Could you elaborate on the tax exemptions you spoke of? Because it doesn't add up to what we talked about at the committee meeting either.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u28	Such specific questions would be asked to the Ministry of Development and Technology. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm quitting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u29	Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u30	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm just gonna fill in the answers to the questions that Senator Stanisławek gave you. Maybe I'll start with the last thread on preferences for small and medium-sized companies. These preferences are not written directly in the bill. They are in a regulation in which we define the criteria on the basis of which zone privileges in the form of tax reliefs will be granted. I would like to remind you that these are, of course, compatible with the State aid map approved by the European Commission. We are not violating the map of state aid, we are operating under Community law. We indicate in the Act 2 ways of making an evaluation, criteria. The first is the quantitative criterion When we point to the volume of the investment, the value of the investment. The second is a quality criterion If an entrepreneur creates a R &amp; D centre or a shared service centre, he has a signed declaration of cooperation with R &amp; D centres, he will be allocated points and will be able to count on a certain amount of tax exemptions. One of the criteria included in the Regulation is also whether an entity is a small or medium-sized enterprise. A small and medium-sized entrepreneur, applying for a zone permit, gets extra points. We point this out, as I say, in the regulation, not in the bill. These are specific solutions. As for the first question, concerning the exploitation of deposits, I would like to remind you that this was indeed the subject of a large debate by the Sejm committee. The entry in the article. 3 finally received this wording: support cannot be provided in the location of investments in areas of undeveloped fossil deposits, except for investments in such deposits. I would like to remind you that in Poland there is a base of Midas. We checked its efficiency and functioning. Any entrepreneur who decides to choose a place after reaching the base of Midas will know whether or not he can invest in a given area. Let me just remind you, going back to the first question, what does it mean that all of Poland will become a special zone. Zone companies are also engaged in infrastructure adaptation today. It doesn't change. Zone companies will continue to be able to carry out these works in places that the investor will choose as the location of his investment. Departure from the territorial model is not a special Polish property. When we started working on the reform of the Special Economic Zones Act, we analysed the models that exist in different countries, mainly neighbouring us. We have analysed what it looks like in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Baltic countries. We saw the very positive effects of the dynamic model. First of all, it shortens the granting of the permit, because when companies first apply for the inclusion of the zone... it took the most time. I will remind you that when I started working as Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, the record holder was Katowice Special Economic Zone. That's where the enlargement process continued... I'm looking at the principal... [[Director of Investment Development Department at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Grażyna Ciurzyńska: 2 years.]] Looks like we were closing in on him after two and a half years. If we give up this first step right now... The investor chooses the place and then this place is parameterized. We know the map of state aid and we know what maximum aid we can provide. Then the investment can be carried out there. Of course, if it is to be in an honest field, it is well known that you will have to do work related to equipment and infrastructure, but it is, so to speak, another step. Right? Then there's another conversation with the investor. We're not saying that... even if the place he chooses isn't infrastructure-adjusted, the whole process could be shorter. This dynamic model, we hope, will be more attractive and, moreover, will allow... We can already see that there are highly industrialised zones and areas that are still waiting for attractive investments. We hope that these solutions will make such investments more possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u31	Senators can now report Ms Minister, please stay at the speaker, because there will probably be questions from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Wach was the first to vote. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u32	Thank you kindly. Madam Minister, from what you said... I don't have the right knowledge of the bill, and that's why I'm asking. From what you have said, but also the rapporteur, it appears that this is selective support for certain companies at their request. This, of course, involves discretion. You mentioned a number of criteria that probably limit it, but... how can you avoid inconclusive decisions, before, so to speak, such completely discretionary support for certain companies? How does a law prevent such a threat?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u33	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u34	Senator, we are not talking about selective support here, because the zone mechanism concerns those who wish to apply for such support. Not every Polish or foreign entrepreneur who wants to invest and grow wants to benefit from this privilege. Why? For a simple reason, it calculates and sees that... Let's remember that public aid The zoning mechanism is a type of public aid, combined with grant instruments or other forms of legally permissible public aid, e.g. from cohesion policy. The initiator of applying for zone privilege is the entrepreneur. So we, the administration, don't select at any level. The initiator is the entrepreneur. Of course, we will want to encourage the emergence of as many new investments in the zones as possible in Poland, but the criteria applied by us are as unarbitrary as possible, they are arithmetically proposed in the regulation. These criteria are, as I say, quantitative and qualitative. Among the qualitative issues we have are structural development, scientific development, sustainable development, human resources development, minimum entry criterion. The minimum entry criterion for aid is 6 points. As part of the structural development we give 1 point, if in the pool proposed by the investor... The question is what pool of employees in the future will have a specialized education, which will guarantee a high-paying job. In today's law, we would say that it is completely non-arbitrary, but we should ask ourselves how attractive it is for the Polish economy. There is a number of jobs. In this context, logistics centres seem to be very attractive because they employ a lot of people, but, as we founded 2.5 years ago, logistics centres are no longer those investments that we should be particularly privileged by giving, for example. tax relief. We also award points, as I said, for cooperation with academic research and development centres or for belonging to a cluster, because we want entrepreneurs in Poland to cooperate more, extending value chains. We give a point for conducting R &amp; D, a point for being a company from the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, a point for choosing a location. Today we say that we have a record low unemployment, but there are still districts in Poland where unemployment is two-digit. And if the entrepreneur decides to place his investment there, he has a chance to get more of these points because it is strategically important for us to have an attractive investment there. And the quantitative criteria. Here the unemployment rate compared to the national average is taken into account, depending on the level of unemployment, the amount of State aid will be allocated. Thus, these are completely non-arbitrary criteria, measurable, numerical and transparent. [[Thank you very much. But you can say no...]] Yes, of course. [[Well, the criteria are well defined and are of a numerical, numerical nature.]] Yes, sir. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u35	You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In her speech today, the Minister said that one of the weaknesses of this support programme, which so far implemented special economic zones, was the fact that it was often necessary to wait up to 2.5 years for permission to expand the zone. But this decision to expand the zone was the decision of the Minister responsible for economic affairs. Now you are saying that these areas of special development will in practice be managed again by the Minister of Economy. Well, that's what I'm talking about. Councils will be created for these areas of development, etc., etc. Haven't you considered not creating new entities, new institutions, new entities that are just supposed to be responsible... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, Senator, I'm a little upset about this conversation from a friend on the side. So haven't you thought about simplifying this procedure if there's already a need to expand the special economic zones according to the parameters that are written in this law, so that we just... Because today these zones remain and it will be as it was, so again it will have to be after 2.5 years to try... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes? It is simply those existing entities that have their structure, their employees, their officials, etc., that could be used for this great programme, and we are creating a new thing today. This is, I think, a bad solution. There will be special zones, there will be advice, there will be decisions of the minister responsible for economic affairs... There's still a regional government here. Wouldn't it be better to consider that the whole operation, the giving of special privileges, etc., would take care of, for example. Regional development agencies, which are regional government institutions responsible for regional development? We're just doing what local governments could do. Instead of saying what local needs are, we still bring everything to the decision in Warsaw... [[Centralization.]] ...to centralize. We don't exploit the potential we have, because we just can't improve the structure, and if we don't get along... We are often the cause of this disability ourselves. As you said, the minister responsible for economic affairs has dragged you to 2.5 years... Yeah, I know that because I know these practices. These were mostly complaints, no matter what government ruled... [[Question, question.]] [[Mr. Senator, question.]] Why is this potential not exploited, but new structures are being created?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u37	Mr. Senator, I deliberately set the example of Katowice and the period of 2.5 years, because we finally closed down very quickly and accelerated these processes, reducing them to 6 months. This is such a mandatory term in critical situations, and last year's statistics show that we're doing this in three months. We on our side did everything we could to make it as simple as possible. As for the bill, the last one, I'd like to say one thing. I did not have an opening speech here, but always, throughout the entire work cycle on this law, I repeated that the zone law of 1994 has led to many very beneficial changes in the Polish economy, but after almost 25 years we are at a different point of economic development. So we do not change it because we believe that it has caused a great deal of evil, just because economic conditions have changed. That is why, as I said, the first criterion cannot be the criterion of the number of jobs created. And that was also the basis for this work. The second important point is that this law expired because it had an expiration date written at the very beginning. So we're actually simplifying this procedure. Why? Why do these advices and why do you think that this coordination element should be at the level of the minister responsible for economic affairs? I'd be happy to pass on to you all the studies we've been conducting in the context of the conceptual work on the bill. They showed us one issue that entrepreneurs also told us about. In many cases there were such situations that we granted permits under this old law, and I say'my', thinking of the Polish state, because we were not the ones who granted zone permits, significant tax concessions... Well, for example. I know one very meaningful history of the European bathroom ceramics manufacturer, which has obtained very attractive, very good investment conditions in one region, granted as if on the basis of uncoordinated policy, while in another region is our native, local producer of the same ceramics for which the transfer of the factory 'Cause we had these territorial zones. From one place in Poland to another it is practically impossible, because operating costs would have a significant impact on the production cycle. So the lack of coordination at this level... Coordination must be in order to consider whether the granting of such great tax advantages within a single industry in a situation where a producer directly competes in the European market with ours, in a situation where there are a lot of proceedings today regarding non-tariff restrictions on access to the European market.... Well, that's why it's the need for coordination, just so we can think about whether I'm answering every single one of the Senator's questions. We want to provide such high levels of public aid and how this will affect the market balance for other producers in our country. So we are really simplifying this process. We really involve local authorities to present investment opportunities in a given region together with them. Because the law imposes new obligations on the company's managers: the obligation to promote a given area, promotions also to those investors who operate within the framework of zone permits, not only in our country, but also to encourage them to export.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u38	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u39	Ma'am, are you going to do business at the speed at which you are performing today, which is a compliment? And that's how to proceed with questionable economic laws? Zones themselves in the European Union are a dubious idea, and also in Poland, because they create conditions for subsidising competition, including Polish. And that's the question. Secondly, in the zones, ma'am, there are not always controlled trials. Well, that's a reflection. Thirdly, the argument against it is also that politicians win it for their immediate political purposes. E.g. Your supervisor, Prime Minister Morawiecki, boasted very much that he had brought Mercedes. Yes, but for 150 million subsidies to the richest company in the world. Yeah, he brought in Morgan's bank, but for giving them a skyscraper. [[That's right.]] Yeah, yeah, a skyscraper for the richest bank in the world. How do you think it is the way of Poland that we will abandon free competition, free market, fair rules and instead will be subsidising at different levels? And you didn't answer the question that Senator rapporteur couldn't answer: will there finally be this equality of foreign entities or not? Especially those in the European area. Aren't we going to put ourselves at risk for discrimination?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u41	Mr. Senator, this is indeed a more philosophical debate, and you're encouraging me to do so, so I'm happy to stand by and try to speak a little slower, I'm sorry... [[It's an advantage.]] [[Yeah, it's a good thing.]] I cannot address the issues of uncontrolled trials that the senator mentioned, because I do not know which processes the senator is talking about. As regards the granting of public aid or grants to investments of particular strategic importance for the state economy, these are transparent processes that take place not only in Poland but in all other countries. This grant that was given to Daimler, or 20 million, I'll remind you, for JP Morgan, who's going to invest... We estimate that we can expect about 500 million to return to the Polish economy. Well, I guess I wouldn't find an economist in Poland today who would say that it was money badly invested. As for the sense of the existence of zones at all, Mr. Senator, I conducted quite deep studies at the beginning when we started working on this law. In fact, there is a report by 2 professors from the Warsaw School of Economics from 2012, which indicates that the impact on the economy of special economic zones, by agreement, is not the best, because tax credits which obtain these investments, with PIT tax 'Cause we're also showing the impact of PIT on employees. They don't balance. But I'm gonna answer that question another way. If there were a real 100% free market in the European Union, your request would probably be fully justified. But since, as I said at the beginning, such privileges are granted in neighbouring countries, we would no longer be able to compete at first. Because, as I said, the Czechs and Slovaks actively use such instruments. Similarly, Lithuania extended the zone mechanisms last year to another 20 years. The Zone Mechanism operates in Latvia and Estonia. The Ukrainian government is talking about similar solutions today. So there's a question that Poland is not an island, but it works in a certain economic food chain, and we just can't... We have to take that into account. And we're trying, like I said before. That's why it's a coordination moment. Don't grant drastic tax advantages to investments that directly compete with a Polish employer who has been in this legal and economic system for many, many years and who have not benefited from such a privilege, for example. He can't move territorially into the zone. Is equality maintained? Yes, of course, because we're acting... Any such regulation must comply with Community law. We have no right to defy anyone in any way. We have this special privilege. Today, the European Commission and the European Union also place particular emphasis on this. We give a point to small and medium-sized enterprises regardless of their national origin, because we want small enterprises to become mediums faster and large ones. So that there is no preference in any way, because it cannot be because we are a member of the European Union. [[Mr. Marshal, in mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u42	The senator wants to ask, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u43	...correction. I've been misunderstood about the charge that you speak quickly. I say you speak quickly and logically, but I'd like to defend the senator, the perfect professor... [[Minister of Enterprise and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: Stanisławka.]] [[Stanisławka.]] ...Stanisławka, who did everything to introduce us, but unfortunately the government ordered the procedure so quickly that he failed to perform the role he wanted to perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u44	Mr. Senator, that wasn't a question. And in the future, think first, then talk. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Marshal, I'm afraid to ask you a question not to be disciplined like a student... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...fourth-century studies or whatever it's called. [[Third century.]] [[It's the sixth century.]] Minister, the issue of equality of actors has been resolved, which means there is no national colour or preference for any of the actors in the country they come from. That's one thing. I see. Madam Minister, you spoke about examples and that similar elements of support are in neighbouring countries, and at the committee meeting, the director said that I also wrote down here a model or watched whether we were analysing Germany and France. As the committee had a limited period of time and discussion was limited Rach-chan, Mr. Chairman has ordered us to vote and to the sitting room... well, that's normal, but please tell me if you could bring the Minister closer to us... 'Cause there's probably a difference between support. I'm interested because I don't know. That is provided by France and Germany and supported by the countries mentioned by the Minister. And the second question about the consultation. I asked to be able to give me protocols or notes from these consultations, because we have two different informations. A little different I have, you are presenting something else, which is not difficult, but I am interested, Minister, if you have consulted the organizations. According to your knowledge, what is your opinion on the project of employers' organisations and local governments? These two opinions, in the Minister's opinion, interest me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u47	I'll start with the second part of the question, which is the consultation. This draft law has been discussed twice by the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. He really... Really, believe me, it's been a long time because we realize that this is quite a big and serious change, because we too... What we had in mind above all is to maintain a certain sustainability and predictability of the legal system for those investors who are in Poland today and who have obtained zone permits on the basis of the current law. We give them some legal comfort, that nothing will change drastically, because we know that the investment plans of the investor that invests I don't know. 500 million PLN in 2 years... Well, he's planning a return on that investment for 10 and 20 years. So all of this was addressed in the bill, twice the subject of the joint government and local government committee. During the consultation, in which I also participated several times, first, we worked with zone companies, second, we worked with regional governments, which are involved in this process. I don't remember a single critical remark from employers' organisations at the moment. I'm looking at the principal... [[Director of Investment Development Department at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Grażyna Ciurzyńska: There was no...]] ...but I don't remember that kind of attention. And we're also in constant contact with organizations. So here we don't have... And, of course, the minutes of these meetings are available for inspection as much as possible. The first part of the question concerned the benchmarks we used, the reference points. Of course, the mechanisms that can be applied by the so-called countries. of the old Union, they are mainly related, and I presented this remark already at the beginning. With a map of permitted state aid. That is why we eat mainly our neighbouring countries, because these countries can apply roughly similar mechanisms, help at a similar level as we do. We're regionally similar here. The public aid provided by the German or French governments does not take place within the framework of zone mechanisms, directly. It happens, so to speak, in other ways. We know, after all, we have many examples related to the so-called. strategic sectors where public aid from the French Government to the shipbuilding industry is very quickly notified by the European Commission. We've got a much bigger edge on this case. And that's what always happens at the crossroads. So that such a uniform mechanism of zone offers in France or Germany does not exist. This occurs at a point, depending on the investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u48	You're asking Senator Dobkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u49	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to approach this matter as practically as possible. Well, if the president of a town, town or mayor has acquired an investor, he has areas he would simply like to download, say, attract an investor and create jobs, what should he do? If e.g. He has already made a deal with the investor, the investor is interested in leading some, say, investments in the area in question, and he wants to take advantage of these advantages within the economic zone that are currently included... and in the future, after this law, will cover the whole country. He wants to use it. Who's the president or mayor gonna turn to just get somebody to help him, say, offer these investor privileges to encourage him more so that he can just come and invest in the first place? How's that practically... Because, as I understand it, a government representative has a part in this council, if there's a representative there... It even says exactly how many people a government has, members of the council... it's called the economic development council. But I don't think that's the kind of help you're gonna get on this board. Just where does that person go? Do you want to go to a given zone? But let's say that the local government is not in the zone. Is it to the nearest zone? Where's he gonna turn to get help? Thank you. [[In Warsaw...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u51	On the basis of the regulation accompanying the Act we define territorially, we show on the map of Poland which parts of Poland are in the jurisdiction of which special economic zones. This is also the change we're making. 'Cause today's the day. such a situation that a section of the zone near Szczecin is managed by a Mielec special economic zone. We also tried to organize all this territorially in such a way very intuitive for the local government to be clear. If someone is from the vicinity of Gorzów Wielkopolski, then it is known that the right zone is the one closest to him. Thus, the first point of contact for this person is the special economic zone. She's the one gathering information, and she knows how to carry out this investment process safely and quickly. And if anybody had any doubts, we started the so-called. one stop shop in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. And all investors interested in investing in Poland can apply to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, the Department of Investment Development, and there will also receive appropriate assistance. But the first essential point of contact is the special economic zone operating within the local government. It's actually happening today. The purpose of this advice is also to activate the mayors and the mayors to be interested in... to even identify the areas where investments can be placed, thus tasking the authorities with special economic zones. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Klein will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to return to the management system of these areas, special areas of development. You are proposing to set up economic development councils. Don't you think... just give me some advice? more and more, they are such consultative, consultative advice. There are various advices, e.g. at the level of the county is the labour market council, at the level of the voivodship The Voivodship Labour Market Council is also a Social Dialogue Council and several other advices. Isn't there such a trend that individual ministers want their advice in different places? Couldn't it be coordinated somehow? I keep talking about it, because instead of simply improving existing structures, we're creating more. Who are these managers gonna be? Will these areas of economic development be managed by special economic zones? Are they gonna show up... Because these management areas can even be at county level, as you write in the bill. Once again, I would like to raise my fundamental question as to why you are not simplifying the procedures they have at their disposal, which have special economic zones at their disposal, would be best able to extend their tasks rather than create new structures. Because it seems like you can't handle the coordination of institutions in the practice of your subordinates. Only one special economic zone is not directly subject to the Minister. This is the Słupsk Special Economic Zone, which is managed by the regional government, indirectly, through a regional development agency. So shouldn't we just try to simplify all that is and not leave what is and create another advice next to it? There's a tendency at the moment. The minister is smiling, but we really are dealing with it, because when another minister comes, he says exactly the same thing: we are creating a new governance structure to improve something. An example is the question of the stock of parcels under the apartments, these special apartments. There, too, a special structure is created to gather information where there are housing resources on a national scale, in which places, etc. The tasks which should be part of regional policy, which should be part of the competence of the voivodship self-government, with stubbornness worthy of some greater cause, are still centralized. Why? Why...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u54	Mr. Senator, of course you remember the minute... [[I remember...]] In 60 seconds... [[I'd like to say things in 15 seconds, but when I see things like that, I just...]] Well, try it. [[It's a pain in the ass.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u55	Mr. Senator, I say the sun rises and everyone sees it, and the senator insists on convincing us that we're watching the sunset right now. [[There are no windows here, Minister. Maybe that's why.]] I'd like to say one more thing, because the senator is questioning whether we're simplifying something. Let me remind you once again that the procedures for granting zone permits in all evaluations, not those made by us, only through external actors who are trying, were radically shortened from the mentioned at the beginning of the 2.5 year period, when we came to standard 3 months, and in extremely difficult, particularly difficult situations. Up to 6 months. When I talk about the council, Senator, when we talk about the development council, whether it's too much or not... Well, this is the first time we want to turn this on so we can... Because one of the allegations to the Zone Act, regardless of the political colors that appeared in Ujazdowskiego Avenues, was that zone instruments serve especially in the dynamics of local elections. And that's why we have e.g. today. the problem of not developing 60% of the zone areas included in the zones. Thus, the Polish taxpayer paid off the process of integration into the area which is undeveloped today. Why? Well, you just had to turn on the field. It's nothing that was under a high voltage traction, it's nothing that we had a strategic gas pipe underneath, and it was known that there would be no investment there. We've got these areas on because it was in the interest of a local charger associated with the board. We say today: we call counsel. And that, as the senator well knows, is sometimes difficult due to local political beliefs. We say: we are not afraid of this, we are calling for advice to implement the demand for sustainable development enshrined in the Strategy for Responsible Development. Is there too much advice? If there's advice for everything, it's useless. We also have one economic problem that we're diagnosing, I think, regardless of the political divisions and ditches that separate us. The fact that Polish entrepreneurs, compared to our Western neighbours or French, are not integrated. We don't have a good, joint representation of entrepreneurs. Therefore, sometimes e.g. in the collision with galloping European law we lose, react reactively, because Polish industry learns about very retail solutions already in the last stage, in the last phase of the work. Why? Because we don't have this universal representation. Councils are therefore needed for this representation to be either bypassed or triggered at this level. We also turn them on because we want, as I said, not those who want to attract attractive investments today, and in places where these investments are already very much, but we want to show other places in Poland, also attractive ones that are important for sustainable development. [[Minister, with political conditions, it's just that we were together in the Platform, you were active in the Platform, I'm acting, nothing separates us, everything is okay here...]] [[Your mic's off.]] [[Oh, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u56	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The whole of Poland is one special economic zone. It sounds very nice and is positive at first glance. But there's also a second bottom of that statement, which means... And this is the question for you: does this mean that no new investment in Poland can be located without the consent of this entity, which you define here as managing the area? Is there a super-government for economic affairs, which removes a certain range of responsibilities, and at the same time competences, the powers of local government, local government, district government, but also voivodeship, and ceds it to the administration, let's call it economic, i.e. the team managing areas? Additional question: Will the whole of Poland be divided into areas under the management of the areas? In short, will the entire territory of Poland be divided between special economic zones or the management of these zones in the present form, i.e. already existing entities? Let's say, for example. Some mayor will say: I don't want to be in any governing area, I want to be responsible for my own economic policy, for my investments. Will he be allowed? Or else: if he finds an investor in his own territory, will he get a decision to support him? Why am I talking about this? Because I was particularly concerned about one paragraph here, namely Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4: the entrepreneur who received the decision to support But it is not known in what way, in which way, in which procedure, the presumption is that any decision to support It shall be obliged to conclude the contract referred to in paragraph. 1, i.e. contracts with an area manager. And this is a service contract, let's call it soft, like: consulting services, support and brokering services, promotion services, training services, etc. And then there's the question. Tell me, Minister, what is this bill about? Is this about expanding the special economic zones and monopolizing the issue of new investments in the country, or are we talking about these new investments in the country? And the last specific question. If the area managers are not involved in the indirect preparation of proposals to the appropriate minister, this means that the minister will not only expand economic zones and integrate, through individual regulations, individual areas into economic zones, but also wholesale Poland will move to one zone and then the minister will deal with individual investments. Wouldn't the minister, sorry for the expression, clog up? Isn't that gonna get too far?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u58	I think maybe the bill isn't... Or we were vaguely explaining what the law regulates. So once again, the law regulates the way in which public aid is granted, the way in which tax privileges are granted to those who wish to seek these tax privileges. Since the Polish State decides to grant such aid, it must be codified legally. It's rational. We should tell who and why, we should be able to explain to all citizens why one investor can get a tax advantage and another can't. Community law also obliges us to do so, because such public aid is subject to special supervision. So if any mayor or uncle wishes to have one or other investment in his territory, it goes to universal law, because it is governed by universal law. There is a building law and everything connected with it is a development law or a spatial planning plan, which states that this area is an investment, this is a construction site, and here are green areas. Thus, this law is addressed only to those who wish to apply for a special privilege, namely the reduction of taxes under the State aid map, within the framework of the law in force within the European Union. We do not take the sovereignty of conducting activities under the Local Government Act to local government entities, we do not limit the activity of voytes, mayors or city presidents. They can do what they are allowed to do within the framework of the universally applicable law in their municipalities. We are talking about a law that has been operating in Poland since 1994, we are actually slightly changing the criteria and simplifying the way we operate. That's what it looks like. Together we have decided, and I feel after attending several meetings and the Sejm, and the Senate, that it was a common belief that this kind of legal solution is a solution that we all want. So there is no limit or desire to develop power or to build an additional economic administration. The Minister responsible for Economic Affairs... I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers has now adopted this through a regulation, which has also greatly prolonged the decision to include the sites concerned, the extension of the special economic zone. We show territorially the area of activity of entities, which are special economic zones, but we do not say, by God, that in the areas indicated, they are the only ones that are somehow the gateway to access for investment, because this is, as I said, an object of... Well, it couldn't have happened at all. Indeed, the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs is finally signing off on the amount of public aid that will be granted, because it is ultimately the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs who talks to a colleague or to a fellow Commissioner, explaining that the State aid granted is compatible with Community law. We're not doing extensive analytics, and we're not preparing conclusions. Those duties that Mr. Senator mentioned, and those that are written in the bill, don't differ from those that today have executives of special economic zones. On the contrary, they are very strongly stimulated by us to prepare the proposal, to work together with the investor on the best possible preparation of the proposal so that we do not have to communicate with each other several times before the final decision is made.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u59	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but I didn't get an answer to a few specific questions. Will there be areas in Poland that will not be subject to management areas? Is the entire area of Poland currently divided, i.e. the current special economic zones are extended to the whole area of Poland, or will there be only island areas managed by the area managers? That's one thing. Second question. Why do you have to sign a contract? I'm talking about a submarine who's been given a support decision. Why do we have to sign a contract with the landlord? And a third. Will it be possible to receive support without an area manager? These are three very detailed questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u60	The whole area of Poland... As we said, the investor can choose any place on the map of Poland and turn to the zone. Zones have defined areas. If an investor wants to obtain tax relief, he turns to the zone, because in the Polish system of law the special economic zone is appropriate to conduct this procedure. If the investor doesn't want to benefit, he goes to the mayor or the mayor in any chosen area and says he's interested in the investment. Then he executes it without a zone permit. The Mayor and the mayor in the Polish system of law did not have and will not have a legal title to grant such a permit. A special economic zone is appropriate to carry out this process, and ultimately the minister responsible for economic affairs grants this kind of tax relief. The whole area of Poland... And that's the difference. So the investor wants to use it, doesn't want to. It doesn't. If he wants to use it, the special economic zone is the right one for his service. Why is it mandatory to sign this agreement? She also exists today under the current law. An investor who chooses to invest in a given zone shall sign a contract with the zone for the provision of certain services. This is a guarantee... zone is a guarantee of mutual commitment that what the investor has declared will be realized and on the basis of this he got points that I told you earlier will be really realized. And this commitment takes on the entity, which is a special economic zone. And the third question... It was the answer to the question of where the obligation came from, about the whole area... And the third question, I'm sorry, I didn't write it down. [[That's enough.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u62	Minister, I am not entirely satisfied with the answer to the article. 3. If we are talking about the Midas system, I would like to point out that there are always two sides to the success of the investment: the investor and the residents, the area where the investor invests. The fact that an investor can see where this special zone can be and where it can't be is, of course, good information for the investor. But in the long term, this may mean that some areas in Poland will be excluded from the investment, that the efforts of local government officials, often very well-functioning, will cause them to be eliminated from the game as it happens in the Copper Basin. Therefore, I have the impression that there would have to be a level playing field between local government. It is your duty, on the one hand, to equalise opportunities in individual regions in Poland through various objective factors, which make places richer and less rich and, on the other hand, not to delete what is the result of a more thoughtful, wiser self-government policy. These 2 elements pull Poland up. So I am still appealing for some modification of the article. Three, because he can be very dangerous to us in practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u63	Mr. Senator, I otherwise know that there is work on geological law, and I think this is the right place to address these doubts. But the other one is no less important, I think, an element of what you're talking about, and that's the echo of what you're talking about, Senator. It is a matter of spatial planning. And this is really such an Achilles heel when it comes to many developmental excesses or understatements in Poland. So if we had an 80% spatial planning plan. for the whole of Poland, then these doubts would simply not exist. It is the spatial planning plan that all these layers should consume. If that were the case, then we wouldn't have the doubts we have. But work on the Spatial Planning Act is underway at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development. I think that possible doubts are addressed as part of the work on geological law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u64	May I? I'm just gonna make this brief so we don't fetish the locals' plans... As far as I know, in Poland we have plans for an additional 80 million inhabitants. And this shows a paradox that snuck into all of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u66	Minister, I'd like to ask you about chambers of commerce and industry. Because chambers of commerce and industry were established to pursue economic policy in a given region. In Poland, chambers of commerce and industry are not compulsory; associations in these chambers are not compulsory. They are mandatory in Germany or France. And that's where these chambers are working dynamically and trying to promote economic policy. Shouldn't our chambers go in that direction too, shouldn't they be reformed? Because they should indicate the investment locations and needs of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u67	Mr Senator, indeed the Chamber, and indeed the economic self-government, is in Germany, in a German model, a compulsory form of association which causes a certain type of business taxation. The funds collected under this scheme finance the development of small, medium and large German companies in many areas. In Poland, chambers are de facto non-governmental organisations. First such chamber in Poland Close to my heart, because it was founded in Galicia about 1863, if I remember correctly. So I think we have this economic self-government in our genes. We will want to start a discussion with entrepreneurs about such a common model of association, association of entrepreneurs, because it would certainly facilitate the representativeness of entrepreneurs in bodies such as the advice we are talking about on the occasion of the law, but not only. So that we can talk about it. We will certainly involve you in this discussion and ask for help to reach all the environments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If I could ask, because I don't know who's gonna award these points for all kinds of tasks... These are the parameters you write about in the regulation. That's one question. Could you tell the Minister about the income of the management entity, which will be the source of the management entity's income? What's he gonna do? And the third question. At a committee meeting, the Minister, the legislator raised a reservation regarding constitutional compliance, namely that tax matter should be regulated in the law and not in the regulation. I would like the Minister to address these three points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u70	Points... It doesn't change much about what's going on today. The points will be on the basis of the request... Similarly today, such a proposal is being prepared by special economic zones. They will be the ones who will allocate these points under the Regulations. This will then be analysed, as today this Ministry of Economic Affairs is analysing. Zone management's working with council, so it's gonna be... The transparency of this control will, I think, be preserved. Excuse me, Mr. Senator, the second and third question was... [[If I may, Mr. Marshal... the income of the managing entity is one thing. And two: Mr. Counselor's opinion that tax matter should be fully regulated by the law, not by the regulation, which was raised as a non-constitutional element. In the opinion of your patron, of course.]] Yes, sir. The revenue element will be the provision of services similar to those provided by the zones today. We wrote them enumeratively. You were quoting them just now, Mr. Senator... [[So the deal...]] That deal we were talking about. And as far as tax regulation is concerned, in our opinion... We're talking about a way at the law level... We've been investigating it, there's no doubt about it. The Sejm's legislators didn't report it to the office. They weren't reported by the government's legislative office either. Art. 217 Constitution The legislators referred to this. We put general rules on the granting of aid into the law, while the detailed rules will be laid down in the regulation. And that is not a particular thing, because it is the regulations that make these technical rules define. We point out that the Ministry responsible for economic affairs regulates this on the basis of a regulation And that's enough. So that we here have no doubt about... and so we commented on this comment made by the Senate's Legislative Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u71	Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u72	Just one last question. Minister, what is the cost of implementing this law? Will the implementation of this law result in increased administration? What will be the increase in employment in the managing authorities of these areas?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u73	As a result of this change, we do not expect an increase in employment in management companies, and we do not expect an increase in employment in central administration. I'm sorry, I don't have an impact assessment right now, but if I remember correctly, we don't... I mean, there's no introduction costs for the budget... [[You mean costless?]] Costless. [[That's good news.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u74	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls, so thank you very much, Minister. [[Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! High Izbo! The issue of regulating the functioning of zones and the arrangement of this matter in a manner is certainly a good idea and it must be said that it is time to regulate the issue of zones and their functioning in Poland in general. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that this idea, that the whole of Poland should be an economic zone, as an idea also comes to my mind. And I think the assumption is right. And that's all I'd like to say about this bill. And I'll start with a general statement. The Minister, quoting the classic... [[Who's the classic?]] ...I'd say I wouldn't go that way. If we're talking about shortening the examination... If the examination of different applications lasted up to 2.5 years, then of course I agree it's reprehensible. We can say that from the year 2.5 we have shortened, as the Minister says, whether we shorten or want to shorten to 3 months. Well, you could say it's better. But if we're making a change, you should tell yourself... Minister, that's why I've been asking about these ideas in different countries. Don't go that way... I would like to say in general, on the basis of my meetings with entrepreneurs, that the less discretion and less economic governance, the better for economic development and better for the functioning of entrepreneurs. Now, two words about the procedure for this bill. Well, I know your Senators of Law and Justice may be enjoying this, maybe boring, but... today's question, today's answer. I guess there was a game show. And I think that's what you're following. We are considering a law that is fundamental, to which we have a lot of questions, doubts, and at the committee meeting there are no representatives of entrepreneurs at all, Mr President does not even know if they were invited. We're discussing for a certain period of time, quickly, because we're about to discuss it. Well, Professor, answer with your hand at heart: should this be the way to create economic law in Poland? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you for your answer. And what I'm saying is, if we want to create them, we have to have time as senators, Professor, to meet with the environments I've been talking to. Their opinions differ from what the Minister says. I need time to consult, talk, maybe invite some of these people here. Well, don't be afraid to discuss it. What in God's name are you afraid of? That entrepreneurs will come, criticize, maybe suggest something good that we can't see? It's not like we're an alpha or an omega. Well, maybe a couple of alf and an omeg are sitting here, but I'm not one of them. That's not how you make the law. Well, you've been digging through the Court, you've been digging through the Constitution, but economic law is the last thing you shouldn't lean over... I'm talking about the length of the procedure. And I'm gonna take a look and report back to the committee meeting on those discussions in Pomerania. Because I have exactly the opposite information. Now it's about creating the whole procedure at all. Well, what Senator Czerwinski said... Mr. Senator, I completely agree with that statement. We create a new economic administration in Poland. I understand that the zones have ended their lives. But now, in order to get support, public aid, you have to go through a different procedure, and basically the same procedure. Points, analyzes, confessions... This isn't the direction we should be pursuing. I agree with the Minister: if all the countries around us are pursuing an active public aid support policy, we should not exclude ourselves from this. But the procedure should be simple and clear. I'm fulfilling certain conditions. Okay, I'm going from 19%. tax on, I don't know, 18%, 17% or 2%. We set out certain directions that we want to support, etc., and I get them automatically. And economic zones or managing entities, as you call them, are to help entrepreneurs. And here's the role and the cost of the state. This is also the case in many countries. I think this is the model we should be pursuing. And you're probably taking a step forward, but that's a step that doesn't solve much. Once again, the entrepreneur will come to the head of the management company. Good morning, could I...? Please come tomorrow. Okay... Conclusion. And what did you write so vaguely here? Well, of course I'm overreacting. Well, it's not a system, Minister, building a future good economic governance. The less discretion, the less administration, the better the economic goals we want to achieve. If we want to, let us only support these departments in a simple, clear and legible way. The strength of the state is that we are able to verify whether the support goes to certain qualitative and technological players and industries The ones we want to get. But let's verify this post factum, not at first. The entrepreneur hasn't started production yet, and he already has to fill out thousands of documents and thousands of roads to prove that he's right. One of the main reservations to the zones was among others. The fact that the entrepreneur who got there was the same official barrier. Exactly the same. And another piece. The functioning of management entities will be financed What did you ask the senator about, I also sign off on it and make an amendment on the income of the trader concerned. So here's the model: the entrepreneur comes and says, "I have an idea." Okay, we're signing a deal, but, dude, you're gonna be beating us up a little bit, 'cause we're gonna have to stick with something, and so on. Well, that's not how you build modern economic governance, Minister. As we do this change, let's do this to eliminate these reservations and have a modern business operating system. The question of self-government, which is what Senator Klein asked. We're people who love self-government. You may not love them, but at least respect them from reason. After all, local governments, especially regional governments, have a specific role. And you bring them into the role of participant in some sort of economic council. What's in the field is advice. I already said it: there was a country called the Country of the Council, and please do not take an example of it, because they in the field had advice. After all, you remember what was first gathering in the Soviet Union before the harvest. Well, the plenum was gathering. . And you're the same... an entrepreneur who wants to enter a given zone or entity has to go to... it's not called a plenum now, it's called a managing entity. And before he comes in, he still has to sign a deal that he's gonna finance me if I'm the head of an entity like that when I join the PiS. Therefore, these are very crazy constructions. It's a matter of centralization. The state should determine the state as a decision-making body, i.e. in Warsaw, as we say nicely Fundamental things, certain procedures and everything should be done on the basis of: the lower, the better and less problems. And the state again: points, request, verification to the minister. And it won't last two years, and it won't last three months. When I know life... We'll wait, see if it's three months. And the system must be useful to entrepreneurs, clear, clear, not on the basis of leaving, asking, filling out a thousand requests, only this: I have an idea, I go for any help, I implement it, and the state gives me a clear signal as to how to implement it. If this is an area, an industry, an idea that fits into the state strategy, regardless of the origin of the capital That's what the professor said in his speech. The State decides to assist everyone. Not as it is today in the zones that the company of the same industry behind the fence doesn't have a release, and the company in the zone has a release. And that's a move in the right direction. But you are strengthening too much what is related to democratic centralism. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'd like to make six amendments with Senator Kleina. I would also like to draw attention to two points. Firstly, we propose to delete the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. That's what you asked the senator. We're signing off on it, too. There must be no obligation for a company wishing to obtain tax-related support to pay for it to the management body. The fact that he was and is in the zone is not an argument. This is a story from which to conclude that this should not be the case. That's one thing. Secondly, if the zone operates in a specific area and not in the whole of Poland, then I have a choice. Either I go into the zone or I don't. But if I'm gonna get fired today, I'm gonna have to... Now all of Poland will be covered by management entities. We're bringing in five other amendments. I'm putting all of them in the hands of your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the work of the Minister and the Ministry. These are actions where the Ministry seeks to create better conditions for entrepreneurs. Many successes were in the period of 2.5 years and could be recalled, but this is not the time and not the place. This bill is an attempt to go further in this direction. The law also prompts me to have a broader or deeper reflection on key issues such as freedom of business and the role of the state in creating conditions for entrepreneurs. I stress: the role in creating conditions for entrepreneurs. Today, it is a slogan or stereotype of a talk about supporting entrepreneurs. In my understanding, perhaps unfashionable and old-fashioned, the state should not support entrepreneurs as much as create conditions for business activities. Rather, it should remove obstacles, not create privileges. I understand that we live in Europe, we're not on a deserted isolated island, we're operating in a larger organism. This law fits into this context, but unfortunately it fits in this way. It's forced by these external conditions. But it creates more privileges than removes barriers. There's no other advice so far. From this point on, I would like to remind you of the fundamental, obvious thing that we often forget today: the source of prosperity, the source of wealth, both of us individually and the wealth of society is work. Work, not privileges. And not grants. That's what I tell the students. Believe me, among young people, there is an increasingly dominant belief among students. This is documented, supported by examples That prosperity comes from subsidies, that prosperity comes from subsidies. And you can finger-point companies or people who build their prosperity on a clever acquisition of grants. Of course, it requires a job, but not a job in such a traditional sense. I would like to remind you today, especially in this context, that this is not just our problem. This is the world's trouble, especially Europe's pain. I have recently had the opportunity to attend meetings at European level several times. European, official and government structures have huge funds that they intend to manage e.g. for grants to entrepreneurs investing in innovative projects. So bureaucracy is supposed to determine what is potentially innovative and what is not. We take huge funds and deform the market through grants for entrepreneurs, grants, e.g. for projects, in the business arrangement Scientific institutions, etc., etc. So far, the end of this process has not been seen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I will once again say that prosperity comes from work, not from grants. The side effects of the fact that entrepreneurs are entered by necessity... 'Cause of course there are those who say, "I don't want any subsidies, I can do it without it, and I'll do it on my own." However, it is difficult to maintain competitive capacity at a time when a competitor receives several, several or several dozen million grants and someone else resigns. At a time when an entrepreneur enters into these grants, he falls into a certain system of dependence, he is subject to control, and this entails a whole range of different effects, which are also visible in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, I do not withdraw these words of appreciation to the Ministry, but whatever it may be said, this law increases the size of economic law. Well, you'd like to... Such a dream of the head is that a law that makes it easier for entrepreneurs to act is made up of records in which they are deleted, thrown away, reduced... This law ceases to apply, this limitation we reduce, etc. Well, this bill isn't long. We had a book bill here, and this is an essay on 26 pages, but it's going to be followed by a dozen, as I count myself, by regulations, and it's going to be another thick book of law. I take note of the Minister's opinion that this will not have any financial or administrative consequences, but it is hard to believe, because the Act refers to responsibilities, administrative activities, decision-making, keeping records, carrying out inspections, activities of subsequent councils. Well, somebody's gonna have to do it. Another person, this time a colleague of Czerwiński, drew attention to this very disturbing article. 10 in which the trader is obliged to sign an agreement with the managing authority, e.g. for a promotion. Well, that's a little incomprehensible. Perhaps this record can still be explained Or just fix it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Klein. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No? Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Mr. Marshal speaking too quickly, I can't understand.]] But you can read it in the minutes later. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and some other acts - print No 820 - and considering this item as item of the twenty-seventh agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[There's an objection.]] [[How many extra points by the end of the day?]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The disabled are waiting for every good move, every gesture in their direction. We also see it here, in Parliament, during this protest. However, they also look forward to a change of attitude towards them, and they want us to consider them partners in the dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to proceed as it is with this law, and I have pointed this out at the meeting of the Convention and I am now saying this to the whole House. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that the Senate is not given the opportunity to hear at the committee's meeting the views of all the affected disability and disability environments themselves. This is denying people the right to dialogue. It is scandalous that this morning again disabled people who came to attend the committee meeting were not admitted to the Senate. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] We are definitely protesting this! This is really an expression of the arrogance of this authority, the same as the ban on entering the territory of a parliament as well deserved for Poland as Janina Ochojska. This is an outrage! This isn't the right thing to do here. Mr. Marshal, the marshal is obliged to ensure that the laws are properly processed. The Senate Bureau, and you are a marshal in particular, does not do this to us. This is negligence, which must be spoken here in this House, and noted. We have the right to help. It cannot be that the Senate is ruled by the Marshal of the Sejm! [[Applause]] And that we are bound by the order of the Marshal of the Sejm. We have our own entrance, we have the Marshal's Guard, and if there's no entrance, then let's stand on the border of the Senate and the Sejm and let's not pass people without passes. That can be done. If you don't do it, it turns out to be disrespectful to people who are coming from all over Poland to participate... This is the second meeting of the committee which has not been allowed to participate in disabled persons. We therefore believe that the basic democratic procedures have been violated. The objective does not justify the means As Archbishop Gądecki said yesterday to President Duda in Krakow, stressing that absolute compliance with formal law is a duty of power. [[We need to report this to the Union.]] So maybe the Excellency of Archbishop Gądecki will report it to the European Episcopal Conference. In any case, I would ask you to repeat this procedure and to work normally on a law that concerns a sensitive issue such as the situation of people with disabilities in Poland, with their participation, in a partnership dialogue. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u80	Thank you. Since Senator Augustyn has objected, we will proceed with the vote on my proposal to complete the agenda. [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club leave the room]] Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 41 senators voted. [[Voting No 38]] I therefore state that there was no quorum. We're adjourned until 12:00. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 49 to 12 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. We are voting again on my request to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and some other laws and consider this item as item twenty-seven of the agenda. [[Where's the Platform? It's gone.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 46 senators voted. [[Voting No 39]] I'm saying there was no quorum. We therefore proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 814 and the report of the committee In print No 814 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u81	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The revision is not extensive. The aim is to extend the possibility of issuing medical certificates of temporary incapacity to work in the past paper form. In the current legal state, 2 forms are acceptable E-mail and ZUS ZLA prints, temporarily scheduled for paper form on 30 June 2018. The Act extends this period until 30 November 2018, i.e. by 5 months. In addition, the Act postpones the repeal of the legal basis for reimbursement by the President of the KRUS of costs relating to the production and distribution of temporary incapacity medical certificates. This would now take place on 1 July 2018. The amendment extends this deadline until 1 December 2018. During the committee meeting, the Minister explained that it is unlikely that the time limits which are currently in force, by doctors and by the CRUS, would be met, and that the deadline for 30 November in the case of medical certificates and 1 December in the case of CRUs would be appropriate. The Commission has adopted the solutions proposed in the parliamentary proposal supported by the government and proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill's draft was filed... [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] [[Senator Kraska speaking.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, Mr Senator, was the committee meeting saying what was the reason for the delay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u84	The reason for the delay is that the persons who are authorized to issue certificates... of these persons issuing them in electronic form are few. Therefore, it is difficult to expect that 100 per cent of the implementation will take place in a short period of time, and therefore it is necessary to extend this period. We've been wondering. And, of course, there was a discussion going on around it, and that was the most of the questions, the biggest difference of opinion. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and The Ministry's explanation shows that through activity, among others. The US, which is helping at the moment to use electronic form, and thanks to other incentives, this term is likely.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u85	Thank you very much. If there are no further questions, thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you... [[Mr. Senator Augustine, the floor in the discussion.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We've been standing a little bit at a crossroads, because we all see the value of getting sick leave in electronic form. It's also about sealing the system. We didn't talk about this much at the committee meeting, because I think it's pretty obvious to us, and it's in the interest of the state. I think there's a full consensus about that. The only reason I went out on the stand is because this crossroads looks something like this... I have very important doubts. And even the Minister in his speech was restrained, speaking of this term. Are we sure we will achieve the goal in November to which we are extending the old rules? But of course those senators are also right, who said that if we leave I think that's what Mr Szymanski said. It's too long, it's going to be demobilizing, not mobilizing. On the other hand, we were aware, at least I was so aware, that we are voting on a deadline, which is most likely And I'd even go for a bet. It will also not be respected. Only that I have experience with other social assistance cases, e.g. standards in certain institutions. Then we also gradually extended the deadline, knowing how difficult it would be and that it might not yet work out this time, precisely because we were afraid that too far away the deadline would completely demobilize everyone concerned. That is why I abstained from voting on this proposal because I accept the reasons of this law, I understand the intention and even understand why this date was adopted, but I consider it rather impossible. High Izbo, you have to know that today only 25% of doctors release electronics. It's a lot of progress, Mr. Minister said. Even recently, you can say very big. On the other hand, not all of the barriers underlying the fact that it was going so hard have been overcome. Those that are related to technical difficulties seem to be able to overcome. Those that are barriers, let's call it mental, will be much harder to overcome. Therefore, let us try, but let me say so, in the minutes there will be this voice, which makes us aware that it is a rather unreal term in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is with great regret that I raise my hand in favour of this law without amendment. At the same time, this is why I asked for a vote There seems to be a lot of mental resistance in this area, perhaps there are other reasons. The fact is that at present relatively few doctors release electronically, firstly, and secondly, many declare that they are unable to issue them. There's nothing we can do about it. We have to wait for this situation to change. However, I think that the few months ahead of us, assuming that such regulation will come into force, will have to be very intensively and well used. And I think it must come from this tribune, that in order for this pessimistic vision of Senator Augustine to fail, we need the hard work of the family ministry, the Ministry of Health and all other institutions and organizations on which it may depend. I think we also need to mobilize medical organizations, medical authorities. There's been a lot of work done lately. One could say that the first version of the electronic release was simply unacceptable to doctors. She was introduced a few years ago. I am talking about this with great regret, because as Minister of Health I found it as a kind of situation prepared in the ZUS and it was done very badly. It was done so that it took a very long time to issue an electronic release and required some kind of computer equilibrystics. In my opinion, this has done a lot of harm in the awareness of doctors who have found it impossible to go through at all. Of course, those who are more IT-efficient were able to deal with it, but it was certainly not a good offer, especially since it must be assumed that the great majority of sick leave is in primary health care, where the problem number one is time, and it cannot be so that a doctor's visit, for which the family doctor usually has about 10 minutes, will be half or even more filled with release. That would just be absurd. In this situation, there would not be enough time for what should actually be happening in the doctor's office. For several years, you can say the emphasis on this issue, also from the Ministry of Health, was very unambiguous, because it must take no longer than the issue of paper release. And it seems to have been achieved. Very intensive work, in which I also personally participated, led to this in the Social Insurance Institution. I don't want to bother you with technical details. That, in fact, this exemption can be issued in a short period of time. I'm also saying this as a doctor because I tried to do it. I gave myself a day off, and it really didn't take long. This can be done in a very short time and I think that every doctor, and doctors are generally people with IT in their lives, have not only cell phones, but also on a daily basis use computers, and in most cases in health care institutions there is no problem with this... The application that is currently used to release reliefs is a doctor-friendly application. Therefore, it must be made clear that at the moment there is a barrier which I believe has been created in connection with the incorrect solution in the past, because of what we found two and a half years ago, because this provision is older than the government of the current formation. It's been fixed, but it has to be fought in the consciousness of the medical community. I think it's a great job for the Ministry of Family and the Ministry of Health. I'm asking you to. I think someone who's gonna give one, two, third release in electronic form, then they won't have a problem with it. It's like medical records or even medical records. Opry during the introduction of such documentation, various documentation systems have always been, but to those who do it electronically, it does not even come to mind to return to paper. It's just that you just cross that line one way at a time. It's just more comfortable, better, easier, more efficient, so of course, and in this case it will be so. So that I think we just have time to work intensively on awareness, encouragement, encouragement, and that's definitely going to work. At the same time, it must also be made clear that this is not only about improving the issue of the exemption itself, but also about the possibility of supervising the situation in this area. Poland is one of those countries where the number of people or persons covered by medical leave is record in the world. We don't get sicker than anybody else, but there's just something wrong here, and it has to be said directly. In 1999, when the first releases appeared on these ZLA prints, replacing the famous proverbial L-4, or more specifically MzL-4, because that was the name of the print, it was a revolution. Then it really fell sharply, e.g. the number of days off, especially long sick leave, in the case of self-employed people, because it was a plague. At that time, self-employment was often organized in general to go on long-term dismissal. There was a high rate of sickness and then a huge amount of money was collected on the illness. And it's practically gone. Why did it disappear? Because ZLA's prints have... Although it can be said that today they are already a little archaic, but in 1999 they were probably not quite archaic, because the fact that this copy reached the ZUS within 7 days, scanning these exemptions, reading and checking all of this led to the fact that at least this pathology disappeared. I think there's a good chance that the acceleration... But we all know that two weeks off is practically out of control. And that is, you can say, a serious problem for all of us, honest people paying for those who, in their old language, boil, because it is known that this is a very different phenomenon. You have to go one step further. These electronic layoffs may allow you to supervise redundancies, which will be shorter, preventing you from playing cat and mouse to those dishonest people who do it. And it seems also to convince, such a PR regarding these redundancies, to speak directly about the fact that this is also a matter of making sure that only really sick people who require, because of their health condition, that they do not work to stay at home or lie down, depending on the recommendations, not those who simply have such an idea for one reason or another... Introduction to the public awareness of this belief that it is these electronic exemptions that can bring closer to eliminating these pathologies, that of course they will not eliminate them completely, but for this they serve, in my opinion, is crucial. It seems that both honest workers, honest employers and honest doctors should create a coalition, together with the institutions responsible for this, and ensure that this solution is actually implemented within these few months. I think that from the technical point of view there should be no slightest difficulty in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u89	Thank you very much. Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to respond to these so-called. e-releases. Because here it was said that they would reduce the pathology in health care, in putting out primarily these redundancies called L-4. As the Minister said, it is not the fault of doctors or this system, it is the fault of our case-law. This involves provisions on disability case law. There are four times more disabled people here than elsewhere, and then we have a situation that we are unable to help those who are really disabled, because this being disabled benefits a large number of people who do not meet the requirements of disability. I was recently a juror for disability, and in my entire district I was considered a doctor who didn't give judgments. But these judgments were about practically healthy people. Of course, if I didn't spend it, then the higher authority restored it, gave it a disability ruling. This also applies to the provisions on medical certificates. And I would warn against such hurrahoptimism, because I remember the introduction of a health care information system. I was Deputy Minister of Health, then Chief Health Inspector, exactly 10 years ago, and then it was thought that e-prescription, e-release would enter within a maximum of 2 or 3 years. It was optimism. And I'm basing this on American experience. In 1997, piloting and prescriptions and redundancies were carried out in Washington, Washington, and they were introduced effectively only 20 years later, i.e. in 2017, because doctors of different ages and in the United States and in our country, and some of them were not used in the United States because of their age, and at the moment also in Poland by computer. Besides, there's a mess about IT systems. I, Minister, worked at POZ two years ago. I've been putting out parolees and prescriptions. It wasn't a problem. But the mental fear of doctors my age and older is terrible. And that's what you have to take. It's because it's impossible to jump over. If we put on a longer period, we won't have to move it. Like I said, it's too... I remember ten years ago when they said that three years from now, there'd be prescriptions and parole. It's been 10 years and we're saying the same thing again. I suspect it'll be another ten years before we can successfully implement it. The same applies to GDPR. I do not know if the period of such a promise will not result in companies who train in the field and the recipes, and the GDPR, at that time will actually make quite a profit, and we will not introduce it. Right now, I see that there are laws under investigation that... In fact, it is in the interest of every managing authority of any institution to train its employees, because he must, in the event of the entry into force of these rules, prove that he has introduced the employees. If he has sent for courses, for training, it means that they have been informed that the Director is not responsible for the fact that he has not informed the employees of the new regulations. These regulations are just about to enter into force, and I'm already getting offers in terms of introductions and prescriptions, and exemptions from various types of private companies that train employees. I think that we as senators, those who make the law, also have to take this into account, because we may unwittingly cause various kinds of companies to do business on it. And that's what I'm giving to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u91	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 1 p.m. I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u92	The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act on Support for New Investments will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the Senate meeting in room 217. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 24 to 13 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u93	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed to the vote on the request to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and hiring people with disabilities and certain other laws [[There are 51 senators in this room.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 50 senators voted, 49 votes, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 40]] I state that the Senate has accepted a request to complete the agenda. We'll proceed with the review of the point... [[Senator Leszek Infantry approaches Senator Marek Borowski and shakes his hand]] [[Thank you for voting...]] [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The text of the Act is contained in print No 820 and the report of the committee In print No 820 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which was intended to give an opinion on the Act amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. The purpose of this amendment is to support families with disabled persons, especially those who raise disabled children, in line with the reasons for the bill amending the Act on Occupational Rehabilitation. Support services are introduced, rehabilitation services consisting of conducting club activities in occupational therapy workshops, entitlement to welfare benefits in the case of a disabled child's illness up to 18 years old and the possibility of using flexible forms of working time organisation, including teleworking. The regulations adopted amend the following laws: on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, the Labour Code, on income tax on individuals, on social security schemes, on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, on social disability, on support of family and foster care, on state aid in the raising of children, on support for pregnant women and families. During the meeting, Mr Michałkiewicz presented the matter of the law extensively to the members of the committee. He drew attention to the five essential elements that are part of this law. During the discussion they spoke, among others. Senator Rulewski, Senator Libicki, Senator Augustine, Senator Elephant, Senator Szymański, and my humble person. The legislator at the meeting drew attention to the lack of clarification of the Rule. 8, which, according to the legislator, should contain a catalogue of benefits. A representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy said that such a catalogue in this regulation is not necessary. During the discussion, attention was paid to the need for a comprehensive solution to the problems of people with disabilities in our country, while agreeing that this revision of the legislation will improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and disabilities in our country in a real way. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy recommends that the High Senate adopt this act without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal is modest, but socially significant. Moreover, it raises the interest of many participants in disabled environments, their supporters and even the government, because, as Minister Michalkiewicz said, open to such initiatives, there is a need to introduce and systematise what is already in the PFRON Act, namely the rehabilitation tournament for the disabled child and its guardian, and this seems to be close to implementation. A demand-related postulate, popular, but above all effectively fulfilling the need for this environment, has in particular social characteristics. As you know, the tournaments included in the Act were primarily rehabilitation, of course, but they were also talking about integration, so that there would be enough time for them to talk to other people affected by the consequences of random exclusion or restrictions or to consult with medical staff more closely. Today, they are generally queue-like, express-style, and under conditions such a minimum tournament of at least 2 weeks, these consultations will be longer and more important. This can also be used to exchange experience in the care of various kinds of diseases or infirmities, whether mental or physical. And finally, there was... there was actually a rebirth of what was repeatedly claimed, the so-called. resting time for the guardian. Because, of course, when we talk about our minority proposal, we're talking about a total rehabilitation tournament for both a disabled child and his parents, carers. Well, that's what we're talking about, is that the carers are also affected by the need for regular 24-hour care. The minority's conclusion is on its way... today, this form is happening. - As you know. In law, only she is optional, depends on the size of the grant, and later, where decisions are made, on the recognition of the district family aid centre. My little observations in several counties prove No, in accordance with the principle of self-government That the form of these holidays is also different. This is finally the domain of local governments, they know best. But the common denominator of my research is that, in fact, their formula is limited primarily to children, to children up to the age of... well, to young people learning. I'm sure Senator Augustine's about to protest here and say it's not enough, because disability isn't just a child's domain. But I'm sure it's a constitution. I will argue with him here if he raises his head or words or sentences... He commands in several articles, perhaps in an article. 68, Art. 69, Art. 71 and 72, special care for the child, but adds that even more when this child is disabled. So we're kind of in double hinges when we have to give this help. The Constitutional Tribunal itself shared this in its position on welfare benefits. And then, just as I'm going on with this respite story... I would call it a condition, because the point is that carers can improve their condition for further years, because, after all, disability, theoretically to a significant extent, not specified in the law, is a deep defect in the various physical and mental spheres, so... The minority proposal therefore aims to ensure that at least every year this family can exercise this right. With the budget in mind... We would like to say free of charge, and we would like it to be an iron law, but given the budgetary needs, as well as the needs arising from the initial exploration of how it will go... It's not like everyone's gonna suddenly get what they want. I believe that it is important to preserve the existing forms of granting this holiday, this tournament, which today contains 2 thresholds. The first is, of course, a doctor's request, which means that it will not be a form that is widely available, only at the request of a doctor who, I understand, will also be an advisor on what kind of turnuus to direct... And the other one. As you know, there's a profit threshold in the bill. The threshold according to which PCPR, i.e. public authorities will grant assistance if income Okay, if I remember correctly. They will not exceed half the average salary per person in the family. If the PCPRs qualify, then of course this grant will not be complete either, part of the funds must also come from the family's own resources. Well, there's a contradiction here, because we're talking about an environment that's excluded for health reasons, and we know that it also has an economic impact on this family. I think, however, that the principle of effectiveness, and therefore also of budget inclusion, should lead to the fact that at least for the beginning, for today we need to start with this formula and flexible and threshold. Today, you can say, in different environments, this is going on differently. Where there are donors, they also support these families with donations and help. It is also important what Minister Michałkiewicz says, that if such an offer were to be made, she could not be general, or any more so, because it would actually mean the formation of queues for very attractive organizers. And rightly, the Minister, going into a sucursor or even ahead of that thought, said that there should be a certain standardization of those who provide these services, because these services are not meant to be, I would say, light, only to meet certain requirements, because they are referrals at the request of a doctor, and moreover the purpose of them is not merely to change their place of residence. In view of the fact that this is the call of the environments that are taking part in the protest, I support the view that this proposal should be put on the run in the form of its adoption. It is not legally difficult, as this regulatory part will be included, as the creators provide, in the Minister's regulation, which will have to seek an accurate description of these activities. I thank the High House for listening. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u97	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Jan Filip Libicki came forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u98	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. At the beginning of our committee meeting today, we talked about whether or not this law was considered, because there was a group of people with disabilities interested in this work, taking part in our committee meeting, but this did not happen, and so far it has been such a good habit that people interested, especially in this subject, took part in the meetings. I'd like to ask the senator if you think, Senator, it's a good thing that these people didn't take part in this meeting, and if it wouldn't be better, for example. postpone the sitting for a time when they would be able to take part in the work. I ask because, as I say, so far such good practice existed and we all agreed with its application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u99	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I share the reflection of Senator Libicki that it was not good that the representatives of the organisations concerned could not attend our committee meeting. However, given the importance of the issues, I believe that it justifies us as soon as possible to proceed with this legal solution so that it is implemented as soon as possible. That's one excuse. The second justification is that this amendment was a government proposal and was consulted with the environments of people with disabilities. Minister Michałkiewicz asked us to quote at our committee meeting the number of meetings that took place, among others. regional conferences were held in each voivodship, during which this law was debated. So that I am convinced that the environment of the disabled has spoken properly and will accept with understanding this present inconvenience, i.e. the lack of opportunity to participate in today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u101	Thank you, Senator. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] Wasn't there a question for the senator? Was it? [[No, it wasn't, and I'm not gonna prolong...]] Good. I'm asking because I thought you wanted to answer the same question. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz wish to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: No.]] He doesn't want to speak. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Szymanski. There you go... Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. I'm sorry. Minister, I'd like to ask you to approach me here. Let's wait for the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was worried that the Minister did not want to present an opinion on this law, because it is a law that is very expected, especially by the environment of people with disabilities, a very wide, multi-million-dollar group. It contains solutions that are consulted with this environment, solutions that have long been expected. Solutions which have been adopted by a large majority by the Sejm, in which this law has been debated for several months. Work on this bill was not carried out quickly, as is the case in the Senate. It is therefore very important to present this public opinion. But I would like to ask in particular what legal solutions have been adopted by the government in the last two years and are being implemented. I ask this in the context of the fact that sometimes there are such allegations that it was only as a result of the protest that the government was activated when it came to people with disabilities. And we know that we have made a lot of laws on this issue. I would kindly ask the Minister to present, if only by password, what solutions these were.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u103	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Of course, my lack of expression was not an expression of disregard for the content of the bill, because this law is important for the environment of people with disabilities. It was an expression of respect for my previous speakers, because also the rapporteur senator, and Senator Rulewski very widely said why this bill is important. And that was an expression of my respect for my previous speakers. The senator asked two very important questions. The first question was why this bill is important and urgent. As far as this bill is concerned, And that's what we've been talking about. It was very widely consulted with the environment of people with disabilities. Since March 2017, 3 national and national conferences took place, 16 regional conferences took place, 32 working meetings with groups interested in specific solutions. About 7 000 people with disabilities, their families and carers participated. It seems that, in fact, what we could have included in this law has been approved, accepted and discussed with the environment of people with disabilities. There are three important things in this bill, and I am therefore pleased that this law has been proceded. First thing. The Act contains provisions on amounts that are not subject to bail-out. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 5th Act is the transition from the percentage to the quota values, as well as the annual valorisation of those amounts. Thus, an increase in the amount of social pensions, an increase in those benefits that have occurred recently, will not result in bailiffs sitting on these increased social pensions in September, but will actually be secured measures against which bailiffs will not be able to start executions. The second very important thing, very expected by the environment of people with disabilities, is certainly the issue of changes in personal income tax. Art. Three of them are talking about it. Until now, the tax-free amount has been determined on the basis of 12 times the social pension. We're entering two records here. We exempt from taxation the care supplement. The amount of the social pension plus an allowance of PLN 153 exceeded the amount of the free pension and people with disabilities could not benefit from the rehabilitation allowance. The fact that we depart from the inclusion of child support, as well as child support to income, exempts him from the treatment as income, causes people with disabilities, people who survive from a social pension, to be able to deduct the rehabilitation allowance. It also states that in the tax year the income of those persons with disabilities does not exceed 12 times the amount of the social pension in force in December of the tax year. That's why in December, the valorization of pensions is in March. So if it was counted for the whole year, then... the pension changed during the year, the pension changed. And that's why we want this amount to be 12 times the pension rate in December. And then it will be safe, then we will actually also take into account changes in the amount of the pension during the year. This is a very important provision. And this recipe, I would like to point out It's in the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We were in a hurry to announce this before the end of April, because, as you know, property claims are made by the end of April. It did not work, but at the last meeting of the Sejm Committee, a representative of the Ministry of Finance reassured people with disabilities that they would be able to make corrections that there are 5 years to make the correction. And this rehabilitation relief can be deducted, and they can benefit from it. But there is one more important issue that was to correct a clear error that was made during the amendment of the law in 2015. It was all about that... This is the eleventh amendment: Article. 25a in the mouth. 1 the joint part is replaced by the following: The point was, until now, the application could only be filed after payment... I'm gonna tell you more, because it's kind of interesting. Persons engaged in economic activities, farmers, if they were disabled, could only apply for reimbursement of contributions to the Social Insurance Institution when the day before those contributions were paid. The farmer often came, paid the premiums and applied on the same day. We have about 600 pending cases, because PFRON, on the basis of those records that were introduced in 2015, had to punish these people because they applied too early. Now this record is safe. Persons will be able to pay their contributions on the same day and apply for a refund. And the proceedings which were initiated were suspended until the adoption of that law. 600 people are waiting for a change in this bill so that PFRON can settle their cases for their benefit. So the fact that this bill is being passed today is very, very important. And the senator's second question, too, very important. Of course, we are proud that over the last two years we have spent more than PLN 3 billion to support people with disabilities, but it was related to many works carried out in the Seym, but also here in the Senate. First of all, we have introduced, as you know, a comprehensive support programme for people and families of people with disabilities. This law, which we are working on today, is the second stage of making changes that will give us the opportunity to implement this programme. The first law entered into force on 1 July 2017. She... we started with the kids, because, as you know, the kids need the right support, rehabilitation, treatments to make this disability as limited as possible. And, of course, the first stage of implementation was a law that allowed for support for pregnant women and their families, coordinated care for pregnant women was introduced, with particular emphasis on complicated pregnancy, diagnostics without limit and without queue, palliative care and hospice care. So far, palliative care in perinatal hospices has been provided as volunteering and charitable activities, and at the moment it is contracted. We have created and expanded a network of homes for mothers with minors and pregnant women, introduced shelters for disabled people, increased funding in environmental self-help homes for people with special needs 30 per cent higher is the grant for these places. We co-financed family assistants in municipalities so that they could also support families with a disabled person, and we established coordination and rehabilitation and care centers in counties. Yes, 311 of 380 counties signed contracts and created such centres, so in fact almost all counties already have such centres. In 2017, 4,000 children already benefited from the support of these centres, although, as I said, the law did not enter into force until the middle of the year. In addition to this, the important thing to say is to increase the funding of the participants in the occupational therapy workshop. We raised them in 2016 to the amount of PLN 15,000 996 We have also introduced changes in the financing of places in environmental self-help homes. In 2017 the amount of the grant was 200% of the income criterion, in 2018 it will be 230% Income criterion. Well, 1 thousand 438 PLN per participant should be this year. This is a clear difference from what was recently: 900, 1 thousand, 1 thousand 100 depending on the voivodship. At the moment, this minimum amount is already legally defined and linked to the income criterion for social assistance benefits and automatically valorized. It is very important that in other laws which Parliament approves, adopts, there are also special solutions for people and children with disabilities. Let me remind you that within 500+ the criterion for the first child with disabilities is 50% 1 thousand 200 zł, instead of 800 zł. In 2017 97% children with disabilities benefited from 500+, so that the amount of PLN 1 billion 320 million was transferred to families with children with disabilities. These are the amounts, the money that went to families with a disabled child and that weren't there before. These are completely new solutions. We have met several demands, which were very important for the environment of people with disabilities. If someone quit their job to take care of a disabled child, and at some point this care is no longer needed for various reasons Well, there's no more that baby that's been taken care of by that person. The right to unemployment benefit or the right to a pre-retirement benefit is automatically granted. We have also introduced a very important thing that was once raised by the Constitutional Tribunal. If there are two or more disabled children in the family, both parents can go to nursing care. So far there have been 1 care provision, and right now mom and dad, if they have to take care of two or more children with disabilities, can benefit from it. And I'm going to talk about these recent changes that you know about, which is a significant increase in social pensions in 2017 and 2018. You know that at the moment it is equal to the minimum pension from the Social Insurance Institution, with the minimum pension. There was an increase of 39.2% over 2 years. and this is a change expected for many, many years. The environment of disabled people about this equalisation of pensions talked about many, many years because they were not able to understand why the social pension is 84% pensions for total incapacity for work. Why is it 84%? Did it come? Right now, it's 100%. And this is definitely a change expected. And I'm gonna talk about that last bill that's important too. I'm looking at Minister Radziwill. The amendment concerning special support for people with significant disabilities in terms of access to rehabilitation and medical services, medical devices. This is a very important change, because if we do research on the needs of people with disabilities, it turns out that access to medical services, access to rehabilitation is among the most necessary cases that people with disabilities point to. They also indicated that access to rehabilitation, access to medical services, access to medical devices was difficult. So it is certainly a huge step towards ensuring the health safety of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u105	Thank you, Minister. Now you ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u106	Minister, listening to you, you could say that people with disabilities in Poland have no reason to be dissatisfied, and that is not the case. Every government has done something, but it's not enough for people with disabilities all the time. Now, here's the question. Why do you change the rules of appointment of PFRON president, and what do you want to achieve? Two. Why did you say, despite your demands, that all of this was consulted and that the expectations of the social partners were not met, both local governments and professional establishments' expectations regarding the possibility for ZAZ to obtain an entity grant were not met? And a third. This bill amends a lot of laws. Working on it was an opportunity to make a few things that concern people with disabilities, those with the most disabilities, and their carers, finally realize. As we know, the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the care provision has not been enforced. This amendment was made by the Platform in the Sejm, but the amendment was rejected. It has long been requested to raise and equalize the welfare allowance and care allowance It was also proposed And that would go against the demands of the protesters here in Parliament. But it wasn't fulfilled either. I would ask the Minister to address these issues. Then we'll say they were on real ground.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u107	Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you very much...]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u108	Mr. Senator, you've been working this lot a long time, and I've been working there a long time. We know how the situation of people with disabilities has changed over the last 27 years. We remember where, so to speak, some disabled people were able to stay in psychiatric hospitals for 30 years. That's what we remember. The situation of people with disabilities has changed considerably over the last 27 years. We remember that the needs of our society have changed and that people with disabilities today have different needs than 27 years ago, other aspirations, other opportunities. They also want to make full use of the conditions that life in modern Poland offers. And that's where we agree. I believe that we will never fully meet the needs of people with disabilities, but also of other citizens of our country, because these needs are constantly changing. I'm moving on to specific questions. As regards the withdrawal from the competition for the President of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, it is quite simple. The board of directors is three, and the bill says that the decision is taken by the board. The competition just takes a long time. I believe that even if a person wins the competition and becomes President, but fails to meet the expectations of the environment of people with disabilities, the change in this position should be quick and should not interfere with the functioning of the state fund, because this fund is too important for people with disabilities, for employers of these people, for professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. As far as the expectations of professional activities are concerned, we are aware that both WTZ and ZAZ are waiting for support because their situation is difficult. At the same time, they are a very strong link in the system of occupational rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Minister Rafalska presented yesterday with Minister Czerwińska information on the road map of the construction of support systems for people with disabilities and their families. The Social Responsibility Package includes increased funding for professional activity establishments and support for occupational therapy workshops. We know that support is needed. We are working on a change of algorithm to be able to transfer more funding to professional activity establishments and occupational therapy workshops. The changes in the support system are, of course, being implemented all the time. As far as guardians are concerned, as I mentioned, we have introduced one of the judgments of the Constitutional Court on double care. The senator remembers that it was in our time that the Constitutional Tribunal drew attention to this. As far as the differentiation of custody benefits is concerned, the senator also knows who put in the records according to which we have at least five groups of guardians at the moment. [[We also know who sued it.]] We know who sued your bill, the bill you put in place. The Court concludes that it is unconstitutional. Right now. Not all senators need to know about this. It is a special welfare allowance for a person who takes care of a disabled person. There is a welfare allowance for the caretaker of an adult disabled person. They're called. EWK pensions. Once, taking care of a disabled child, you had to work 20 years to retire early. Now these people are often dealing with an adult disabled child, and their pensions are much lower than those of carers who have resigned from work and did not have to work. They have 1472 PLN, and ladies from the EWK often have 700.800 PLN pension. This is obviously the third group. The fourth is care benefits, which are actually now... This is PLN 1477 net. Plus, there's contributions. This is actually a minimum wage benefit. It is also valued with the minimum wage. There are many benefits. What the senator says... I agree that this is an urgent matter. However, we believe that, in order to put the system in order, we must first and foremost sort out the caselaw. The case-law reform team was set up a year ago to prepare new proposals for case-law. By the end of April he had time to review case law and prepare new solutions. This deadline has been extended until the end of June, but the report and proposals for amendments are already being drawn up. Members of the team have until tomorrow to comment on projects that have not yet seen the light of day. So far, members of the team are reviewing them and agreeing... The proposals are prepared in 3 variants. This is difficult because in Poland there are 6 systems of ruling. MON has its own, MSWiA has its own, education has its own, KRUS has its own. In our resort there are 2 systems of judging the ZUS about incapacity for work and ruling district teams about disability. We are also working on a system of ruling on independence. In Poland, independence involves not only disability, but also age. There is an increasing number of people over 90 and over 100 years old who also require care and care. And we want to include these people in the system, which is to link the funding of the guardian... The point is that he's caring for the disabled, and this disability is related to independence. Such people actually require care and care, often 24 hours a day. There's a lot of people like that. They are completely dependent on their carers who need 24-hour care and care. It's worth remembering. These people aren't protesting because there's no way to bring them back to the Sejm with the wheelchairs. And they must also be remembered by the government. Unfortunately, we must remember different groups of people with disabilities, with different needs and with different degrees of disability and independence. As far as care allowance and care allowance are concerned, this is an interesting question. Since 2006, the care allowance has not been increased. Every 3 years there is a statutory verification of this benefit and in 2009, in 2012, in 2015, the government of that time established this benefit at zero. He wasn't actually raised. In 2006 there were 153 PLN and now there are 153 PLN. This year in November there is a statutory deadline for verification. I know that yesterday the government did this because it will be consulted with the Social Dialogue Council, and some proposals have already been prepared. It's definitely not going to be zero, I can promise that it's definitely not going to be zero, and ultimately we want to equalize the care allowance with the care supplement. The care supplement is for ZUS rents and it amounts to 215 PLN. They used to be the same, but in the ZUS there's a benefit valorization every year and he went up. This one of our social pensions has been in place since 2006. I'm not hiding that this is a subject for discussion outside of this room. Because if every three years it were valued, then of course we would be in a completely different situation. As I say, we know that these two cases, namely the benefits to adult carers of disabled people and the increase in the care allowance, are important. Yesterday at the government meeting, these issues were discussed and some proposals were made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u109	Thank you, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator John Filip Libicki questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you're talking about the pros of this bill. They certainly are. For me, the most interesting solution is these support clubs at the occupational therapy workshops. Whether this is effective or not, it is a matter of separate discussion, but certainly an attempt to restore the workshops to the occupation therapy of their original function deserves recognition. I'd like to ask you three things. First thing. As to what Senator Augustine said, it must be said that it is, however, that in the draft budget for 2016, as far as I know, this 600 million PLN was planned for the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on equalisation of benefits for carers of children and adults with disabilities. So what happened to that amount? If you could just say... This is the first case. The second issue is the issue of professional activities. I think that... although I don't know it to the end, but if I were to assume who wanted to get to the committee today, I would say that it is precisely the environments that are most interested in the functioning of professional activity establishments. This is not only a question of the grant that Senator Augustine was talking about, but it is also a matter of another wording of the reliefs that these bets can grant to their co-operatives when it comes to contributions to PFRON. That's a lot of concern. I'd like to ask you how you'd feel about that. And finally, number three. You said at the committee meeting that the two-instantness you are introducing in the case of the administrative decision of the voivode and President of PFRON is expected by employers of people with disabilities. Well, in the time between the committee meeting and the moment I said this, I contacted the representatives of POPON and got a clear position that they would like this way to remain, so to speak, to appeal against the decision of the president of PFRON and the voivodeship. I would like to ask, therefore, why this difference in positions. I have it here because I even got this job by e-mail. If you could explain where this came from, I'd be obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u111	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u112	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you for the questions and thank you for the good word at first. As far as the bill is concerned, the first question concerned 600 million PLN, which was intended for the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The senator knows, because you also pass a budget bill, that there can be no budget planned for something that didn't happen. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was not consummated, i.e. there was no law passed to implement it. And in the 2016 budget, funds for family benefits are planned, as every year. They are always planned in 2 amounts, one in voivodeships' budgets, the other in reserve. At the same time, on 1 January 2016, 2 laws entered into force, which were adopted by the previous government and not secured by the funds. One was the gold bill for the gold. In social assistance benefits or family benefits, if someone exceeded the income threshold, then the benefit was reduced by the amount of the difference but continued to receive the benefit. This resulted in additional expenditure from the budget, as also those who had not previously been planned received benefits in part. The second solution, also very interesting, from which Minister Kosiniak-Kamish was very proud, is maternity allowance I think that's what it's called. For women who have never worked. So that's like, uh... women living in rural areas who had a child could receive a maternity benefit of up to PLN 1 000 for a year, although they had not been insured before, did not pay out contributions to the Social Insurance Institution. The third important thing, or the fourth, Senator, is that my information is also agreed with the family benefit department. The director is the same as then, and really there are still documents in this department confirming what the negotiations on the family benefit budget looked like. And I can assure you that Minister Szczurek did not agree to introduce some extra money for something that was not really covered, which was a bill that wasn't there. That's not gonna happen, Senator. About the reliefs and the ZAZs... In the near future, we have a meeting with representatives of the labour market convention, but we just want to have solutions in place to support them. And when it comes to relief, I'll also remind those senators who don't remember that the Platform government and PSL wanted to completely eliminate the reliefs. The protest of people with disabilities caused, however, that these reliefs were maintained, but already at a lower percentage, of 50% reliefs that were earlier. And there's also a record that when it comes to using reliefs, so that invoices can't be manipulated, only 50% can be used. the value of the invoice. This entered into force in July 2017. Of course, we monitor exactly how this affects the functioning of professional establishments, the functioning of protected employment facilities. We really think it's worth looking into, because where there's a large concentration of people with a significant disability, with special diseases... It is worth remembering that they need special care. It's about keeping jobs. We will certainly analyze this, but, as I say, the bill came in recently, and we need a little time to actually check how it works, all the more so that the relief granted earlier could be used as rights acquired also after July, so we don't have a full picture here yet. As far as administrative decisions are concerned, as I say, they actually result from the fact that we have a lot of cases that go on for years. Maybe the senator doesn't know that. Come to the Ministry, I'll show you the longest cases lying down. Does this affect the functioning of entrepreneurs employing people with disabilities? It's affecting. As for this solution, which we are proposing here... We propose that if someone is dissatisfied with the decision of the President of PFRON, they may appeal again, with new evidence, or may file a complaint directly with the Regional Administrative Court. And then, of course, the court will decide. So this is definitely a shortcut. And as far as POPON is concerned, Mr. Senator, the vice president of POPON is until recently the vice principal of my office and he was preparing these solutions. So if he's criticizing now, then I'm very, very surprised. Because Director Kosiński was just preparing the solutions you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u113	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] I'll write you down, okay? [[Good.]] So you don't dominate... And now Senator Constantine Radziwił. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u114	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we are considering a law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and hiring people with disabilities. I emphasize these last three words. Well, there are many positive changes and there is also an element of the revision of the Labour Code in the employment of carers of people with disabilities. Could you tell me whether there is even more incentive in the Act to employ disabled people, including severely disabled people, including intellectually disabled people? Because it's known that among the many different things that people with disabilities deserve... Or else: what people with disabilities fear, especially their carers, especially their parents, is what happens to them when their parents run out. What's the status on the bill? And eventually, if it's not here 'Cause I don't see it. Whether there is a plan for further flexibility, so to speak, to facilitate the rules on the employment of people with disabilities. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u115	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u116	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, it's exactly what you said. One of the most important issues that disabled people are talking about is that they want to work. It restores them dignity, it is the best form of rehabilitation, it is actually an opportunity for independent life as far as possible. Under this law, there is one solution that goes in this direction, namely those clubs that you spoke about in Senator Libicki's workshop on occupational therapy. This is to ensure that people with intellectual disabilities will not be afraid to leave the occupational therapy workshop, take risks of employment in the open market or in the protected labour market, as such a club will support them in this. The point is, people leaving, for example. for taking up employment, the occupational therapy workshop will benefit from so-called support. Coach. He, as a WTZ employee, could not support people who left the WTZ so far. Now people leaving WTZ will be able to use the club services. And within this club, this trainer will be able to support them when it comes to functioning on the labour market. And also when it comes to the crisis, because for the people in question, it is often a problem to even change jobs, and that person needs to adapt to the situation again. So these clubs are a solution that is going in this direction. There's one more thing that's important. We have recently adopted a revision of the Social Cooperatives Act and there we have put in place such a provision that the workshop participants will be able to benefit from employers' practices for 15 hours a week. So that they can check in advance whether a given job is the job that they are interested in, whether the risk of functioning on the labour market is actually as big as it is as dangerous as they fear. But at the same time, the employer will be able to get used to it, to convince that a disabled person is often a very good employee, even though he has special needs or not necessarily standard behaviours, but he can be a good employee. Every disabled person takes his job very seriously. Thus, during these 15 hours, up to 6 months, with the possibility of extending this period, these persons may benefit from such practices. And that's the next question. Mr. Senator also talked about making it easier for disabled people's carers. We want for these... We know that when there is a disabled person in the family, the whole family must be involved in the process of caring for that person. Therefore, we make it easier for carers, flexible working time, teleworking so that they can reconcile care with professional activity. And one last thing. Yesterday, when Minister Rafalska and Minister Czerwińska presented a road map of the next actions, the actions that will be undertaken in the near future, they also exchanged assisted employment. We're already writing this bill. The Aided Employment Act is being prepared precisely because people with disabilities often need support to start working in the labour market. It can help them, for example. The work coach who prepares the workplace will prepare a disabled person to function in the workplace, support it in crisis situations, prepare his colleagues to work with a disabled person. We also think about other forms, e.g. about workers who have to help with certain activities. If a disabled person cannot deliver the material to himself, it may be an employee who reports the material or receives the products produced. He's such a helping worker. This solution is often used in disabled cooperatives or other places where people with significant disabilities work. So that's right, we're working on it, and we're working on those who are hard-employed. At the same time, the good situation on the labour market makes people with disabilities become attractive workers at the moment. In many places directors, CEOs say they want an employee, whether he's fit or disabled, it doesn't matter to them whether the IT guy is fit or disabled, it's not a problem for the IT company president. Of course, we also have various programs in PFRON, there is a student program under which we support students with disabilities, there is a student program offering support after graduation so that these people are able to function after graduating, find a place of work, work in a new place of work. Thus, various such actions are undertaken, they often do not require statutory changes and are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u117	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question, in detail, concerns what you were talking about, i.e. the reimbursement of contributions. One of the provisions of the Act is being amended, but according to the article. It shall apply only as if to... the following shall be added: from 1 July 2016. Where did that date come from? Wouldn't it be better to say that under the new law it applies to all unfinished cases? Why is there a border date here, from 1 July 2016? And a more general question. The Minister himself said that, in part, the cause of the problems we are now seeing is simply the non-revalorisation of the sums that are recorded in the laws, whether it's thresholds, whether it's a fixed amount of benefits. Don't you think that it would simply be appropriate to go from such a quantitative determination of the amount or level of a specific benefit to a system that relates to the lowest pension or, I don't know, the average wage or the lowest wage? Then these amounts would be automatically re-valorised, and we would not have to deal with any changes that simply result from economic growth. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm already checking. Is this about the free quotas that enter into force on 1 July 2018? That's what we were talking about, isn't it?]] No, Minister. It's about art. 16. The new method of paying contributions is to apply to those who, as if they had been... This new condition for the payment of contributions shall apply from 1 July 2016. Weird is this date, because it's 2 years practically, and contributions are required for probably 5 years. I don't know. Where did that date come from?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u119	I'll tell you what. As I said, a change was introduced in 2015 in the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation, saying that people with disabilities doing business, including farmers, can benefit from the refund of contributions to the Social Insurance Institution, but in order to benefit from the refund, they have to pay contributions the day before. So PFRON was checking... At the time he couldn't check it out, now he's able to, because he's connected, he's got IT systems connecting to the ZUS. PFRON... So someone wrote a statement that they paid their contributions and applied for a refund. But the bill was wrongly written because she said that contributions had to be paid first, and only after that can you apply. So it was only possible to apply a day later. And very many who were able to benefit from this exemption came, paid their contributions and applied on the same day. When this came out, PFRON had to start proceedings, demand a refund and punish these people. But since we've been working on this bill for six months now, PFRON has suspended these proceedings. These proceedings, which concerned this period, from 1 July 2016 to today, are pending, are suspended. And in PFRON, they're waiting for us to pass this bill. If we adopt this law, they will already decide according to the rules that are here, i.e. that you will be able to pay contributions to the ZUS on the same day and submit an application. It's for those people who have to come and don't want to come twice. So they come in one day, pay their contributions, apply. This is about those people and about those almost 600 cases that are currently in PFRON and are suspended, waiting for this bill to be passed, but also about cases that have taken place before. That's why it's the date. The second question I didn't write down... [[The point is that the statutory reference levels or any dams... or, if necessary, the benefits are defined as a percentage, in relation to, for example, to the lowest pension, the lowest salary, the average salary, but not in quota terms. Because the amounts have to be revalorized, and if they were written in this way, they would automatically revalorize.]] Thank you very much. What the senator is saying is important, but we must also bear in mind that laws that have financial implications must be agreed within the framework of inter-ministerial arrangements with the Ministry of Finance. However, the Ministry of Finance prefers a quota settlement, because we plan an annual budget, and if something is defined as a percentage, it automatically values itself and automatically enters the budget as a rigid expenditure. So that, of course, it is more related to the philosophy of the functioning of the budget and the planning of the budget than to our decisions. Interesting is the record and what the senator said... As far as execution records are concerned, this is where the amounts are. From the percentage determination, we went into quotas because, when they were percentages, the increase in social pensions resulted in an automatic increase in the amount that is subject to bail-out. So here we have changed the provisions to quotas as safer, because it actually guarantees that the amounts that should be excluded from the bailout will be excluded. These are more technical matters... But where it is possible, we also try to enter valorization mechanisms, so that these sizes are valorized. Because, as the senator said, it's often forgotten and certain benefits have been unraveled for years. We introduced, among others. the element of budget financing valorisation. I have talked about this here. There were places in environmental homes of self-help, because it also happened there and there began to emerge differences due to the fact that some voivods were adding something, others were not, and there was no automatic valorization, so those leading environmental self-help homes began to have problems with wages for employees. The minimum salary increased and the funding remained similar. So where it's possible, we're trying to do something like this, Mr. Senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u121	Thank you, Minister, for the bill, thank you for understanding about rehabilitation tournaments, for being open to various kinds of benefits. But, please, don't go on the road of equalizing the care allowance with the care supplement, because it's an artificial design. That's the closest goal in the bill, that's what we're going for, and then we'll see again. I'd rather ask you to reform the nursing allowance as a basic universal institution for everyone. But now the questions. Don't you think, among the confusion, of the various voices, that you should divide activities, including financial, into social benefits, i.e. passive and active, i.e. activating to various activities, work, participation? That's one thing. Secondly, it is called for, in the case of social pensions, to abolish the tax. The Prime Minister is speaking right now. I'm calling him back. The solidarity fund... Well, it can be expressed by means of a general tax formula, just eliminating the tax, especially since of course this amount is deducted from the tax, you can benefit from the rehabilitation relief. So wouldn't it be easier? And did you carry out the calculation of the social pension tax? It's 180 zł, but it's incomplete, it's not real, because it depends on what the basis is and if there's relief. But that gives us a real reflection. Or is it real... After all, the social pension was never treated as income at all, it could not be earned or lost. She's just a social service, and as such, she can't be the subject of tax law. So the question is, have you considered it? And finally, there's an issue that I was just talking about. The reform of this supplement... I'm sorry, the care allowance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u122	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, important issues, but I think it's hard discussing the bill, to settle. Surely there is such a thing in thinking about disability that disabled people want to be full citizens of our society, to exercise all rights. We have now compared the social pension with the lowest pension for total incapacity for work and the lowest pension. So we set up those disabled people who, for reasons independent of them, cannot take up employment at a similar level to those who work, who pay contributions that have been retired at the lowest level or the lowest pension from the Social Insurance Institution. However, as the senator said, the system of various types of tax-free amounts, various types of reliefs I hope so. It compensates people with disabilities for their income being at the level of the lowest pension or pension. However, additional expenses are often associated with disability and it seems to me that we are trying to compensate in a slightly different way. This is a more general theme The extent to which these persons should be charged with tax, but I think, as I said, this is a subject for another discussion. As far as care allowance and care allowance are concerned, it has the character we were just talking about here. When it comes to children, it is known that parents with a disabled child have slightly different needs and other expenses. And then there's an allowance for family benefits because of a disabled child. As far as adults are concerned, care for them also requires additional funding. And this nursing allowance was so characterized, so somewhere it is written that it is to be paid for the increased costs of caring for a disabled person, taking care of it. That's right, he hasn't been raised in years and lost his temper. 153 PLN in present times actually means something different than in 2006, because it was last raised. I believe that there are many different types of benefits, and the introduction of the next ones will further disrupt the system and complicate it. It's easier to make sense of those earlier records. So I think that this rehabilitation allowance should actually compensate for the higher expenses associated with disability, but I'm sure at the moment, as the senator said, he doesn't fulfil this function. Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u124	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u125	There was still a question as to whether in the framework of ordering etc. However, funds and money should not be divided into passive activities, i.e. social activities, benefits etc.... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Yes.]] ...and for active actions to support inclusion in society; it is about work, culture, participation in society.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u126	Thank you very much. Excuse me, senator. That was a question, but when I answered the other questions, I forgot about him. It seemed important to me so that it was good that the senator repeated it. It's exactly what the senator said. I think these two things need to be differentiated. They should be of a different nature and should be visible that they are of a different nature. Yesterday Minister Rafalska presented the road map and there the emphasis was on these active forms. As regards the Solidarity Fund, which Minister Czerwińska will build, he is also to support active forms of action in support of people with disabilities. Social action was not presented yesterday as part of the road map. They were discussed yesterday at the government meeting. There, discussions were held on those actions which are the result of the laws and which should be implemented this year. There were proposals that would later be discussed with the Social Dialogue Council on this more social part, which I consider It should be financed from the budget as something that is obvious and that belongs to people with disabilities, because the legislator has decided so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u128	Thank you very much. Minister, I will return to this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the carers of adults with disabilities. I understand, as you said, that the money was, but there was no law in place that implements this judgment of the Court, and therefore that money could not be mobilised, so you have allocated it to the implementation of other laws in this area. That's how I understand it. I understand it's okay... That's how I understood your thinking. And that's the first thing. The second thing is this. As far as the 500+ programme is concerned, families who have children with disability decisions receive funds from this programme for the first child, but this does not apply to children with a slight degree of disability. My question is, are you going to do something about it or not? What's it gonna look like in the future? And finally, the third question. I very much appreciate that you have taken up the matter of ordering the case-law. This is actually a huge area and it's not easy to sort out. Undoubtedly, this is the first step in order to try to write a new law on rehabilitation, even less in the context of the manual of the state fund, and more in the context of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I would like to ask if you have such plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u129	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Let me answer that right away. It's exactly what the senator said about the budget. In the budget there are no planned funds for specific laws. In the budget there is a line on family benefits, i.e. a certain amount is planned for these benefits. And these family benefits are very much, they are different, but the amount is one. Of course, it is actually calculated on the basis of the cost of individual laws or benefits, but there is no separation of this in the budget, there is one amount for family benefits. She was slightly higher than in 2015, than planned for 2016, but, as I say, the previous government left 2 laws for which it did not secure funds, so we also had to add funds to family benefits in the context of updating and amending the budget. But there's certainly no way the minister can pull 600 million out of his family benefits and put them in his pocket. That's not an option. Minister Rafalska also has documents that show that Minister Szczurek did not provide funds for the implementation of the Constitutional Court Act. As far as 500+ is concerned, this is linked to the third question. As I say, let us wait for the reform of case law. As the senator knows, when it comes to a slight degree of disability, he is debatable among people with disabilities. And also by the environment of people with disabilities and experts is often called into question whether, in fact, people with a slight degree of disability require special support. However, we bear in mind that in the case of children there are no judgments in relation to these degrees, only disability is ruled. And all children with disability decisions can benefit from 500+. About the rehabilitation bill... That's a very important question, Senator. I don't hide that on the one hand the caselaw, I think... I hope we can discuss it in a moment, i.e. new proposals or new solutions in relation to case law. On the other hand, the situation on the labour market makes certain instruments of professional rehabilitation no longer play the role planned. As far as technological change is concerned, when it comes to the possibility of working in the labour market to support the employment of people with disabilities, all this should now, as I believe, be reviewed, considered and wonder if it should not be otherwise written. The best example is the senator. A lot of people with the senator's disabilities think they're so disabled they should just... they certainly shouldn't be working. And among our colleagues, we also have a MEP, Mr Plura, who is a really very disabled person, who acts as a MEP, and that works well. So in today's world, disability, depending on mental predisposition, on education, on different conditions, makes them very different in the labour market. And certainly the existing instruments do not necessarily have the same justification as before. And the last thing to say. Yesterday we discussed case law. We also discussed the restoration of the necessary rank of comprehensive rehabilitation, about the Polish comprehensive rehabilitation school, which is actually often used in the world and has been divided in Poland. And what else is diagnostics, what else is diagnostics? Medical intervention, that's all. Medical rehabilitation, that's all there is to it. The occupational rehabilitation, and this often has to take place at the same time and must actually be comprehensive and adapted to the individual situation of the disabled person. So that I think it is worth reviewing whether these instruments of professional rehabilitation, which are currently based on the law, are further justified.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u130	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you to the marshal, thank you to those who took part in the discussion and asked questions.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Szymanski was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to refer to the issue of the atmosphere that prevails, and to this proposal, which was made on behalf of the opposition club, the Civic Platform, in order not to prosecute this law during today's Senate meeting. I am very surprised by this conclusion, because in his argument, Senator Augustine stated that the reason... The senator proposed that the committee should meet again, together with the social partners, with representatives of people with disabilities, so that representatives of persons with disabilities could participate in the debate. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that during almost three years of the work of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, at various meetings, whether in the case of people with disabilities, if they were concerned with the subject matter, whether it was in the case of representatives of different groups, if the meeting concerned other issues, the committee was always extremely open. And this applies to all senators, whether from the Civic Platform or from the Law and Justice. Here the standard is one: we want to listen to other people's opinions, we want to take their opinions into account. No doubt that was the case today. When I held a committee meeting, I informed that I had given such an order to the secretariat of the committee to allow representatives of disabled persons to come, if possible, if they are in the office of leave. Turns out there were difficulties, but it wasn't the committee's fault. It is worth answering to yourself what this is caused by. This is, in my opinion, caused by this action which takes place in Parliament, in the Sejm, by the protest of people with disabilities who are going on another day. It must be said that the effects of this protest are very different. This protest makes the entrance of the Seym and the Senate more restrictive, which also affects various invited guests. This effect should also be taken into account by the public, as well as by the protesters, because this is an effect which makes it very difficult today to consult with people who represent people with disabilities. Last week, one of the committee meetings, including on disabled persons, on other very important issues, was cancelled because representatives of disabled persons were not admitted to the Sejm. It is not the fault of a committee that does not restrict entry into the Sejm. It's because of this situation, the protest that's going on. And if it is proposed to postpone the deliberations so that people with disabilities are involved, then the question arises: when? Or tomorrow or in two days or next week? After all, those who protest say that they will be here until their demands are literally fulfilled, as they wish, and so maybe they will be here in a longer period of time. What does that mean? This means that if we apply this method, the rules, which in general, in this Chamber too, are considered very good, very important for people with disabilities. They are expected in the vast majority of them to be shifted over time in terms of their implementation. Every day is important here, and I would ask that we consider it. Another point is the argument that the committee should reconsider. I would like to point out with all my might that the committee has gathered almost in its entirety. There was only one person, and in the vast majority, she voted in favour of this law without amendments, after a thorough, long discussion, after explanations from the minister present, who represented the government on this matter. The Commission has taken a decision which is undisputed, which is in accordance with the rules of procedure. There is no way that the committee that has already decided will go back to the same matter, only in an extended composition. I would like to stress this very clearly: our will has always been to work with stakeholders, in this case with representatives of people with disabilities. This is difficult, as I said, by the ongoing protest. We should be aware of that. Ladies and gentlemen, as chairing today's family committee and senior policy meeting, I felt it necessary to say that the broad consequences of this protest should be shown, as well as the moving of decisions on this matter. Finally, I would like to point out that the bill has been examined in the Seym for several months in 3 readings. Representatives of disabled people participated. So it's not like this would be the first opportunity... Of course, consultations should be held at every stage of the work. I take the situation in the Senate as a completely extraordinary situation, which is probably not going to happen in the future. As I say, consultations took place in the Sejm and the bill was adopted without a vote of opposition by a vast majority of Members. Moreover, as the Minister informed a while ago, but this was also discussed at a committee meeting, the law was consulted in many places, including at large national conferences. The voice of representatives of disabled persons was taken into account. I regret very much that this was not possible at this last stage, but I explained what I thought was caused. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u132	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u133	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! A little beat up, in an absolutely literal sense, by the Marshal's Watch I come here to speak about people with disabilities. Senator Klich and I tried to introduce a disabled person, the President of the Polish Humanitarian Action Janina Ochojska, into Parliament. The attitude to it, preventing it from entering Parliament, going to protesters, including disabled people, proves that disabled people are not treated as a partner in solving their own problems, their difficult cases. It is wicked that such a situation accompanies our deliberations. This is irrational. The fact that the social partners were not allowed to attend committee meetings should not happen, especially as they are disabled people. Even if there are doubts and threats, each of us, Mr Marshal, can imagine many solutions that would ensure the safety, peace and participation of people with disabilities. By voicing this part of my speech, I'd like to ask you what you're afraid of. Who are you afraid of? [[Disabled.]] Disabled people? In wheelchairs? The demagogy that you're doing right now, Janina Ochojska, in front of the parliament? It's still going on. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk. You have to want to talk, you have to listen, you have to go as far as possible. to meet needs. These people have very different needs, just as the disabled environment is different, from those of science and education, including lifelong education, which would increase the employability of people with disabilities in the labour market. And that's where we're gonna start. By professional, social rehabilitation, material support and, finally, support for those persons with disabilities to a very large extent, which are nearing the end of life. Instruments that are already available today are a lot, but it doesn't all cling to the system, it doesn't create a whole. And every now and then, regardless of government, the disabled remind us of how much we have to do. This government, Minister, even though you've done a lot of things, you've mentioned it. However, it was one fundamental thing that he neglected. We do not have a comprehensive picture of the situation of people with disabilities. We've just witnessed... It is difficult to determine how many people with a significant degree of disability are in Poland We don't know the basic thing for sure. What one of the government officials said was a different number. You can get lost in this maze of different circumstances, conditions that need to be met, in order to get some help suitable for the needs of people with disabilities in Poland. There is no good diagnosis, and therefore there are no comprehensive, systemic solutions, and what we are getting today is probably a hundred enta revision of the law on rehabilitation. We still don't have it. What PiS has advocated for almost 8 years, almost every meeting on this issue... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes. And today, you're still not listening, apparently you didn't mean it. Today we still don't have... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I didn't hide the fact that it wasn't there. We still do not have a comprehensive change in this regard. To some extent here in the Senate... I do not throw away that I have wasted time, because also the diagnosis in the form of a green book about the situation of the independents of my co-authorship was created here, and the draft law on help for the independents materialized and was submitted in the Seym on 4 May this year. There are a few things in the bill that are important. In my opinion, the particular emphasis on the functioning of the WTZ requires that this period is extended to 90 days, guaranteeing a possible return to the WTZ from the labour market. It will certainly reduce the concerns of those who would like to work. There are a few things that concern professional establishments that are right, but unfortunately there are also those that ZAZ haven't seen. The provisions on flexible employment for carers of disabled people are valuable, because this case was a big problem. It is a pity that this applies only to the carers of those with disabilities before the age of eighteen. Yeah, well, it's almost 60%. carers who combine work with care, unfortunately this does not apply. It is a pity, especially since this flexible working time is not related to costs. Why aren't we doing this? I can talk about it because I've negotiated similar solutions. They are, so to speak, in my law with employers. They were willing to accept this because they understood that more and more older workers today needed flexible working time. They want these workers to go back to them, so they don't lose it... Minister, this could have been here. Too bad it's not here. But the bill is in the Seym, so there will be an opportunity to pick it up soon. This is another bill where competitions are abolished. This is really very bad. There are so many people interested in fantastic people who are worthy of competing for this place. Once again, from the political key, the Minister will appoint the President, this time President of PFRON. Unfortunately, it is a pity that the establishments of professional activity, those which are run by local authorities, will not receive an individual grant, which was promised, what were the assurances about, and at the end we do not have it. It is doubtful that this law introduced the possibility of appealing against the President's decision to the President. It's such an interesting design. He's gonna take it longer than he's gonna help with his errands. That is not only my opinion, but the opinion of the interested. So the law itself, the kind of incident that only deals with certain things, shows a lot of shortcomings. But the most important thing is, in my opinion, that the opportunity was lost to refer clearly to what the protesters in the Sejm are calling for during the process of this law. I want to tell you what this protest is all about. It's not about the extra 500 zlotys, it's about the 500 zlotys that these people lose when they're 18 years old. And they're demanding that after they're 18, too... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done. ...have this income guaranteed. Already as adults, people would like to have this supplement so that they could function at an unconventional level in relation to the one from which the Minister rightly, reminiscent of 500+ for the disabled, expressed satisfaction and pride. He was right to do it. They don't want any more, they just don't want to lose. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u134	Thank you, Senator. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a few words about these restrictions on access to the Sejm and the Senate for outsiders. I want to say this: I understand that if there is a protest, there must be some restrictions on access, it is obvious. But what I'm trying to say is that last week, the committee was canceled because it wasn't allowed in, for example. officials of individual ministries. Well, he must have some logic. I understand he doesn't want to let outsiders in unverified, but ministry officials are verified. Mrs. Janina Ochojska is a public figure. After all, public figures were allowed into these people. The former President Duda, who is a public figure, was the first lady, was Fr. Card. Noisy. To me, Janina Ochojska is a similar kind of public figure. It is known that the public will not, so to speak, create such problems as individuals in some way unverified. At a time when this protest continues, they are normally accepted e.g. Tours reported by some senators and Members... [[Some trips.]] Yeah, some trips, that's worth mentioning too. It seems to me that this poses a much greater threat than the presence of Mrs Ochojska and those who wanted to attend our committee today. Because I also want to say that a group of those who attend committee meetings... Well, there are letters from many years, and you know what organizations they are, and you know they're verified organizations. And you can really loosen those rigors so you don't seem to be the biggest threat to the security of parliamentarians are people with disabilities, like Mrs Ochojska, or people who work in organizations for such people. This is the first case. And now I'm going to the point. I'll start with positive issues. I have already said this at the stage of asking questions: in this law which we are currently investigating about professional and social rehabilitation of people with disabilities, there are several elements that I welcome. These are the clubs at the occupational therapy workshops that are supposed to try to bring people with disabilities into the labour market. True, we all know that in the WTZ theory these people were supposed to be preparing to enter the labour market, and in fact they became closed circuit and no one is particularly interested in leaving the workshop and someone else who is preparing for the job. The fact that the Minister is attempting to act in this regard is a positive thing. The question is whether this will have an effect or not to use other tools. But surely this test must be appreciated. In the same way, it is important to appreciate all those solutions that move towards flexibility in employment or working time for carers of disabled people. This is important, too. So I would like to make it clear that it's not like that Even if I make a few critical sentences in a moment I don't see any pros in this bill and in this solution. But here's what I'm saying: about the Constitutional Court ruling... Well, we're different here. It's a matter of order. I believe that since this money was secured, it would only be sufficient for the Senate to approve the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the case would be resolved. You've chosen a different solution. I don't think it was right to do that. It happened when it happened. Now when it comes to including children with a slight degree of disability in the 500+ program... Well, I agree that in the case of a child up to the age of 16, it is only decided that he is a disabled child, without granting a specific degree of disability. But we're talking about this gap between 16 and 18 years old. These are kids who aren't out of the 500+ program yet because they're not 18 years old, and they're already getting a ruling with a certain degree because they're 16 years old. And we're talking about this group, whether it should be turned on or not. I think it should be included. And I strongly urge the Minister to do that. As for the issue of this bi-instantity, as I say, I have on the part of employers such information as I said. It seems to me that since there's a time argument that it's taking a long time... what we're talking about here, it's gonna take longer. That's first of all. Secondly, it is such a reference to someone who has already made a decision on this matter, from a formal legal point of view, that raises my doubts in this matter. The next question is the question Senator Augustine also spoke about this. In the case of a professional establishment, the following shall apply: It is not only a question of direct financial support, but also a question of what we talked about, i.e. these reliefs. Well, I'm not sure those people who wanted to come to the committee today were actually people representing the workplace. But, as it turns out from my brief insight, this is a matter that raises the biggest controversy. At least to me, when it comes to what we're discussing today, the largest number of people came out of this environment. They reported that they would like to take part in the discussion and obtain certain assurances. Finally, I'm gonna say yes. I'm gonna say it again. I welcome the fact that the State that Prime Minister Szydło has decided to set up a team to reform the disability system. I think it's a brave decision to face. This is undoubtedly a very difficult task. I don't know, because matter is extremely complicated. I can say, without revealing my name, that one of the members of the mentioned team told me: if I had known what I was getting into and what I was getting into, I wouldn't have gone there. This shows the degree of complexity of this matter. But it's good that you want to face this difficult matter, although I don't think you're going to do it within the deadline you're talking about, because it's just impossible. I also agree that this is the first step towards starting a new comprehensive law on people with disabilities. I spoke about this during all the governments and talked about it when Minister Michałkiewicz was not standing here, only Minister Jarosław Duda stood there, that I stopped counting the number of amendments when we reached the number 100. We've already exceeded that number a lot today, and let's face it, a piece of legislation that's been amended so many times, well, it's a dysfunctional act. This is a law that was created long before we adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and new documents should be created with regard to this convention. Therefore, I urge you to take another bold step, i.e. to start a discussion on this subject. This is certainly not a matter for one term. At the beginning of this term of office, together with Senator Augustine, I made sure that both I, as President of the Parliamentary Group for the European Union, provided assurance. People with disabilities, as well as Senator Augustyn, as chairman of the team for independent persons, we are ready to work on this bill. I maintain this, especially since I took part in the country I'm sure they also received this. In the Third Congress of Persons with Disabilities. There is a holistic concept of an approach to the construction of a new law. This concept is probably not perfect, but it is already a material for thought, for creating specific regulations, and above all this concept which was presented there, is laid out, constructed and finished, Mr. Marshal. With regard to the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So I strongly urge you to take this second brave step and try these works. Thank you very much. I guess I didn't go too far.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u136	Thank you very much. You fit perfectly in the limit. Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the detailed information summing up all the actions of the Government of Law and Justice for the benefit of people with disabilities and their families. Mr. Senator Libicki deserves a great deal of respect for such a balanced and very substantive statement just now. But I'm not gonna give up on what I was gonna say. Helping people with disabilities, their carers, families is... The sooner it is given, the better. Therefore, it is difficult to understand today's actions of the Senators of the Civic Platform, who, using the fact that there are not all senators in the Chamber or many Senators of Law and Justice are absent The Senators of the Civic Platform today do not all try to prevent this law from proceeding. But the point is that the provisions of this law should be implemented as soon as possible. To prevent this real help for people with disabilities, I apologize for the irony. A special expression of concern. On the one hand, the pathetic tone, the pity of the disabled, the thunders of the cruel rule of law and justice, and on the other hand, the blocking of good ready-made solutions. This does not mean that there will be no better solutions in the future, but today we have these and we need to introduce them. So once again, I'm... Well, I don't understand this Pharisaic attitude of Senators of the Civic Platform. Let me also share this reflection with the High Chamber. In recent weeks in Poland we have experienced two... Polish public opinion was busy and worried about two ongoing events. The first is the protest of people with disabilities in the Sejm We all understand their fate, their bottom line, and the second is the accident in the mine, and a deadly rescue operation led by so many mining rescuers. Yesterday was St. Sophie. Yesterday, the body of the last miner was found in the mine Zofiówka. These are things that... As Mickiewicz wrote in Romance, not everything can be examined with a glass and an eye. We can't do it either. It's important that the miner... Well, many people predicted that under such conditions as underground relations, I think, we all followed There was no chance to save his life. But any miner going underground, whether in a copper mine or in a coal mine or in another mine, must know that the government, that the management, that the miners will do anything and that they will come for him, that they will not leave him there. Why am I talking about this on this occasion? High Senate, I think we should all measure our words, our tone and our attitudes in dealing with many important issues and problems relating to the functioning of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Thank you so much for preparing this bill. She is important, she regulates a whole range of cases, although not all of them, of course. I think it is also important to recall the various actions or achievements that have taken place in recent times as regards the situation of people with disabilities. I think we all realize that this is a very broad topic, that there are a lot of things to do. It is undoubtedly important to see people with disabilities at all stages of their lives. And it's happening right in front of us. We are co-authors of various solutions, where we lean over the family, where the mother learns that she is pregnant and the child is disabled, and we take care of this family, also during the perinatal period. Here is a whole range of solutions that are designed to care for a child who is born deadly or very sick, then a whole range of different types of early rehabilitation interventions, which are needed for a child who is born with different kinds of disabilities, in order to reduce, as far as possible, this disability that can develop, but on the other hand, simply support a family that is experiencing very difficult times. Undoubtedly, the longer a person with disabilities lives, the more these problems go beyond a simple scheme of benefits, simple benefits, especially medical or caring benefits. Because other problems arise when we deal with a disabled child who starts to go to school, then when he matures, various kinds of problems that also require support. I hope that in this respect we will also develop more and more forms of assistance and support for young people with disabilities. But finally, we come to a point that is critical for many people with disabilities, especially parents with disabilities, i.e. Grown-ups. Disabled people with all kinds of disabilities, both physical and intellectual, and their future are becoming increasingly, over time, subject to fear, fear or even despair of their parents, who realize that as they age, they will not be able to provide them with full care, support, etc. So if we're talking about support for people with disabilities, including And I'm very keen on that. Intellectally disabled people and their carers, we must also think about this perspective. It can be said that in the past not only was this problem not seen, but it was just smaller, statistically smaller, for very obvious reasons. Many of these people did not live to grow up or died very young. It's different today. I say, for example. about people with Down syndrome who live almost as much as others today. This generates further challenges that we need to face as a society. I strongly urge the family ministry to actively think about it. I am very pleased that the Minister mentioned today work on assisted employment. In my opinion, it is it is a completely fundamental issue at the moment, and it is also for a group of people with intellectual disabilities. And to conclude, I'd like to use this bleacher just a little bit outside of discussing the bill we're leaning over... Well, I am very pleased to say that, already under the rules that are in force today, which are not entirely flexible and do not fully support this type of employment, I have managed as a health minister to clean up some paths. For about a year or so now, several people with intellectual disabilities have been working at the Ministry of Health for about a year and a half. It was a very complicated undertaking, but it worked. They worked with assistants first, with supporters. And I'm particularly pleased to know that this is technically going to work, but I'd like to show you this. On March 21, when World Down Team Day was celebrated worldwide, the United Nations headquarters in New York hosted a conference on what I bring to the workplace, which is what I bring to the workplace. It's about people with Down syndrome. And at this conference in New York, Poland represented among others. employed at the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Anna, who has Down's syndrome. This is, in my opinion, an unprecedented event. That person was there. I just don't know how this is gonna work out technically, but I'd like to show it to you for a second. [[It's gonna be okay.]] Well, maybe. I would like, while bragging about this, to encourage various other employers, and in the first place the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, to think about hiring such people in central administration offices, then in other offices, and to think at all about the fact that it is a matter of our duty to these people. And by hiring these people, we can gather more experiences, and then we can turn it into the right rules. [[Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł plays video recording on his laptop]] I don't know if you can see anything, but you'll hear it. [[You can see that we're waiting for you out loud.]] Yeah, yeah, they're just sitting down, but this is about where they sit. Mr. Marshal, that's two minutes unless I can fit in time. This is the lady who supports Mrs. Anna. And now Mrs. Anna or Mrs. Ania, as we call her in the ministry. Let me remind you that Mrs. Anna has Down's syndrome. In English in New York she talked about her work, about the happiness that comes from having her money, that she is independent, that she can be useful, that she can represent Poland, just at the UN forum. Minister, I dedicate this to you and, of course, I serve you with this film. This is a film widely available and I think it can be used in different situations. I very, very much urge you to take advantage of this opportunity to promote this area, yet relatively poorly developed, the area of employment of people that can be useful, can be independent Not in workshops, not in clubs, but just among us, wherever they can be full-fledged and full-time citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for letting me take the floor here today for losing this bill. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry for its work and for the fact that we can take further steps today after various difficulties. I think it's a little silly to speak to the opposition senators, since only one is present in this room, but I hope that Mr Augustine will pass on to his colleagues that your behaviour today was a proof of hypocrisy. Because that's not what you're doing, that's what you're talking about. You say you support the disabled. Then why are you making everything so difficult? You say you're fighting for their rights, while when we want to talk, agree, you just pack up and leave. That's not how you do it. We want to take care of the well-being of the disabled, because we are well aware of their needs, we are well aware that their lives are difficult, that they require a lot of funding, many facilitations. We're trying. And I'm sure with the next laws, the opposition might want to do better than that. As much as possible for these disabled people to do. I come from a small town. I've been working with disabled people for over 30 years, and I know their problems very well. And I can tell you one thing: I, of those disabled people I've dealt with so far, can be proud. These really are people who deserve all respect. I'm meeting people who work as well. There's a bar at the station in our town that's just been run by disabled people. That's what makes them feel needed. That's how they make their money. It's not enough, all those who come through this station ask for opening hours and sometimes even say it's too short open because they cook there great. These disabled people are not only cooks, they also make beautiful art. There is a theatre team who drives all over Poland and wins prizes. Maybe I can even arrange for this team to come to the Senate. I thought about it today. 'Cause it's a great team. I used to be on a review of theatrical bands, where there were three bands, so-called. Disabled and 1 team of those disabled. And I'll tell you, he was the best. These are sensitive people, these are people who learn as much as possible. That's why I think it's very important that we make this life easier for them. Indeed, the ministry has not since today and not in such a hurry, but has been trying to help these disabled people for 2.5 years. The fact that therapeutic housing can be created is that a parent leaves his adult disabled child under the care of special carers, and at that time maybe at that time. To go to the hospital to check out whether to go to the sanatorium, it's already working for us. Same result that was in the Seym Only 1 Member abstained and 1 was against It points out that both coalitions and opposition to the fate of disabled people depend. That's why I'm asking everyone... I mean, I don't think my colleagues need to be persuaded, but I'm asking the opposition to vote in favour of this bill, too, without amendment. I'm asking you to, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u142	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. I understand it's a second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You can see clearly that the Minister was right. The great change, after several decades, which we, working together for this environment, had the opportunity to see, so to speak, is among us. It was a really beautiful speech, Senator, full of empathy. If she's missing today, we regret it. You can want to do things, you can do things empathically. Not against, but together. Even under these circumstances... After all, your leader is now temporarily disabled, not fully operational, so it would seem that there should be room for understanding. I went out on the stand for the second time because I'm making amendments. Many of these amendments were tabled in the Seym, but I would like to say a few, putting them as if in a broader context. What I need to do is, according to my view, of course, I refer to my great experience. From big cases like this? Of course, a new law on rehabilitation, which would also contain provisions on a new way of ruling, other provisions. Yes, the Minister is right. I'm really looking forward to it. As the author of the Act on Help for Independents, I wrote down there, in the form of an indication that the district teams will be adjudicating on this matter, but of course I wrote it with my soul on my shoulder. This system isn't tight, it's not perfect, and that's why it would be nice to have it decorated in a new way. It's a good thing. The second thing that needs to be done. No, it has to be done to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. You demanded it, so do it. The third issue concerns what the protesters are demanding. You can do it. Here I agree more with the Minister than with Senator Rulewski. On this occasion, the issue of care allowance, care allowance must be settled. You can even, wisely thinking about the amounts that are at your disposal, try to make sure that you remember the very poor pensioners who are getting a care supplement, remembering them, do so to meet the request made here. I've been trying to show you what's going on in a pill like this, because sometimes we get lost and we feel like they want more and more and more, and in this case it's not true. And another thing. It is either possible to move towards a major resolution of the Act on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, or to go towards such a solution that I am trying to provoke, provoke... I did it when I was with Minister Rafalska so it wouldn't be that it wasn't over-divisible. But I was with her with this project, and I left it there. There is a law that is a kind of overlay for what is already, called the Act on Helping Independents. It's filed in the Seym. Let's hope... She is a complement, especially with regard to this most valuable element. And what do we have to look after people with disabilities? We can see it even here during this protest. Because the greatest value is the caretakers of the disabled, their families. They're the ones you need to support. In this direction You have to go. And most of all, those carers who combine professional work with care. That's what he's for... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. That's what this bill is for. Some elements to make this easier are already included in the amendments I make. I hope you will take these into account at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski. Second time too, so five minutes too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three thoughts. First of all, there's a question of what kind of people are allowed in. ♪ Or not ♪ . to Parliament and allowed to participate in the work of the committee. I would like to point out that this is not the decision of committee chairmen, it is the decision of the Marshal's Guard, resulting from certain arrangements. We do not know whether the procedures that are established are sufficiently fulfilled by these people, and all this is due to this unusual situation, which is the protest in the Sejm. I think we are all interested in the consultation of various laws, including those concerning people with disabilities, to be carried out as best as possible, with representatives of these environments. And certainly this lady from the Warsaw Uprising who wanted to get here, and certainly Janina Ochojska, who is a specialist in this area undisputed and is a nice person not only for the committee, but also for the whole parliament, and should be heard... It's bad that there are situations that make these people unable to enter. But, as I said, this is because of this particular situation, which is the protest. We should listen to the voices of representatives of people with disabilities and there are various channels and opportunities to listen to them. These are senate committee meetings, this is the openness of the ministry, including the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, this is the center of dialogue... Something unusual is the wrong seym hall. I would ask you, at the end of the call, not to take advantage of people with disabilities and the situation of people with disabilities in the political fight. The point is that the ditches between the groups are very deep, this political conflict that is currently taking place in Poland is very strong. But we really need to pay attention to the fact that we do not use socially vulnerable groups to fight against society, to fight politically. Unfortunately, it is difficult not to see that people with disabilities have fallen victim to this. I strongly urge us not to go this way, because this is too important. You can't use people in a difficult situation like that. I don't want to tell you any more... But yesterday, even on the part of protesters in the Sejm, we had calls not to vote for one of the groups, which clearly shows how this tribune is being used. But also representatives of various parties should not in any way use people with disabilities, as I said, for political confrontation. May we aim to ensure that the confrontation that takes place in Poland is not as deep as it is right now. We need more dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Rulewski and Augustine. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, in a moment we will be discussing proposals and amendments at the committee meeting, but I have to say a few sentences because there have been a lot of statements in the debate, in the discussion, which, however, need to be corrected. Senator Libicki spoke about 600 million for family benefits, order etc. It is not possible in the budget to plan and implement laws that have not been adopted. Mr. Senator, you know that. Senator Augustine was talking about the rehabilitation bill that she's not here. I liked more what Senator Libicki said, which is that this is a law that is very possible. It does not run out of one term, because often such cases require more time. After eight years of your activity as a representative of the government majority, we found nothing we could continue with the work on the new law on rehabilitation. As far as the ruling is concerned, I would like to remind you that this is the third panel that has been appointed to develop a new system of ruling on disability and other matters that require judgments. The first did not finish the work, the second did not start, even though it was called, and the third finishes The materials have already been prepared. About the convention... This is a very important issue, but I would like to remind you that the Convention was adopted, adopted by the UN in 2006, we adopted it, ratified it in 2012. This ratification took a little while because we had to check and adapt the legal system in our country to the provisions of the Convention. Ratification meant only that the system, which is in force in Poland, implements the provisions of the convention. However, there was an additional protocol, which excluded the use of involuntaryness, because it still functions in Poland. Of course, the fact that rights are written does not always mean that people with disabilities can make full use of them. They often need facilitation and support in the implementation of their rights. I'd like to thank the senators again. I do not hide that the time spent with you has been very fruitful for me. I have heard many very important and very substantive speeches. I would like to thank you for the fact that the Senate actually left behind political emotions and very substantively discussed problems and the support of people with disabilities. I'll remind you that last week, the Sejm, and at this Senate meeting... If you vote today on this law, you will adopt a total of 3 laws on people with disabilities: the Social Pensions Act, the Special Solutions Act supporting people with significant disabilities and today the Law on the amendment of the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation. During the 1st session of the Sejm and 1st Senate meeting we adopt 3 important laws for the environment of people with disabilities, solutions that these people often waited for very long. I would also like to stress very strongly that yesterday we discussed and presented a road map. Our resort was involved. We're working very hard all the time. At the moment, we are preparing new solutions, new instruments to support people with disabilities. In addition to the road map, which was presented yesterday and which is intended to help implement the new instruments of support for people with disabilities in a timely manner, the government meeting also discussed the tasks to be carried out by law this year in relation to persons with disabilities. I would like to stress very strongly that we have been working hard for two years to improve the situation of people with disabilities, but we also remember Senator Augustine mentioned this. The fact that the growing phenomenon in our society is independence and that it is not always the result of disability. That is why we are also thinking about the issue of independence as part of the ruling. As part of some of the actions we are taking, we are thinking about the problem of independence. I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister's exposé referred to the "Accessibility +" programme. The Prime Minister spoke about Poland that is friendly to all citizens, who are independent for various reasons. Because of their disability, because of their age, because of the illness or circumstances they had to face during their lives. The fact that we are starting to think widely about the fact that the disability and other circumstances of our lives are often accompanied by independence and that we need to make Poland friendly to all independent people, is a new quality of our life and our thinking about society and about social life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. In particular, we thank you for your kind words to our House, which fell from the lips of our colleague in the Lower House. It's always nice to have the Minister here. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u149	The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u150	Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 29 to 18 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u151	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting will be held on 6, 7 and 8 June 2018. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on Employee Retirement Programmes. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 816 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employee Retirement Programmes. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Central Communication Port Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 824 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 19 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Central Communication Port Act. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Personal Data Protection Act. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposal presented during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 811 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Robert Mamytkov, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u152	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u153	Thank you very much. Do the Senator or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? The motion was made during the discussion by Senator Alexander Pociej. In addition, the committee's rapporteur was Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski. And these are the people authorized to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would very much ask for the support of the amendment that I tabled, which concerns children from the age of thirteen, as is the case in the Civil Code, to be able to decide on their own actions on the Internet in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u155	Thank you very much. Senator Mioduszewski? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 54 for, 19 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Personal Data Protection Act. We return to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 812 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u156	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the committee is asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u157	Thank you very much. Would Senator Alexander Pociej like to speak? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say in a customary way, Minister, but somehow no one wants to admit to this success, in quotes, and to present to the High House a bill that turns back, as we say in Warsaw. The Vistula with a stick, because it is completely different from everything that has been done in this matter for the past six months. I would like to say a little bit about the history of this bill. I remind you of 21 July 2017. I will remember this day forever, because I don't think I'll ever have the opportunity to discuss a project that told me to leave the house and fight with my presence under parliament for tens of thousands of people, whom I would once again like to say thank you very much. This meeting will also be remembered by me not only as the beginning of fatal, unconstitutional projects. Until today, which we are discussing today is ruining the Polish justice system, but also as a precedent for passing a law that sent two senators, and a majority, and opposition, Professor Sewerinski and me, to an E.R. with a pressure of more than 200. I remember the statements of my fellow Senators from Law and Justice, Minister of the Warchoł, that this is the realization of the dream of Poles about the reform of the justice system. [[Nightmare.]] I am therefore waiting for an answer and a finger pointing where there is at least one article speeding up procedures that makes life easier for citizens. You said, fellas, that the total opposition is trying to destroy everything, that it's protesting just to protest. The head of the Law and Justice Club has asked several times to proceed without asking questions, and at the committee's meeting the motion to vote on the law without amendments, because there is no doubt. Mr. Senator, because I have personal respect and sympathy for you, I would like to say that you have gone into the history of parliamentarians and it will be lex Martynowski. For the future. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]] [[A voice from the room: Beautiful, Martyn! Bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] Such a beautiful bill, so good, so smart... And all of a sudden, the President, after all, the candidate for law and justice, vetoed this bill because he thought it was just a legislative mistake, and it's pretty thick. The next six months were a struggle in their own political family. Another proposal already in December 2017 a completely new minister, which is understandable, justified, said how brilliant and indisputable these are solutions, the only right and flawless. Except to a large extent they were completely different from the previous July ones, which were also flawless and hit at the point. As usual, our Legislative Office, working through the courtesy of the Senate Bureau at night and day by day in extraordinary mode, did not leave three very important reservations to this project on the dry thread project, but it is important that it has raised three very important objections to this project. Again, no one in the Ministry, no one in committee, no one in the plenary room at the vote had any doubts, at least from the right side of the room, as to the fact that this is the only right legislative path to be followed by your party. To this extent, no one had any doubt that no one at that time supported the very dramatic request of your Minister of Justice, who begged him to give him some peace of mind with an emergency complaint, because it must automatically block and destroy the possibilities of this Minister and the other 6 entities entitled to bring an emergency complaint, but especially the possibility of the Supreme Court to bring an action to an end, because it is absolutely certain that the Supreme Court will therefore be blocked. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Without hearing the experts, without hearing the representatives of the Supreme Court, without amending the State's votes, in my opinion without thinking All of this has been accepted. What happened in March before this December novel came into force? There have been further profound changes and inclusion in the draft Law and Justice, Members of Law and Justice of these three amendments, exactly the same 3 amendments of the Legislative Bureau, which were rejected a moment earlier, which were ignored, because the Minister of Justice's opinion was that it was meaningless at all. After all, they were rejected in December. I would like to express to the Minister He's not here. . Respect for the consequences because he supported these changes. And now two words about the jury and our way of proceeding in the Senate. It's a struggle to turn a secret vote into a public one only under the influence of a political event involving one of our colleagues... We warned that in a moment we would change back to partially secret personal proceedings, because the Supreme Court novel would assume this. There's been this project before. None of you have shared our views and asked us not to at least try twice in this respect, no one has said: you are right, why do this. Then there was this exception for the jury, that however, back the vote would be secret, and then there was another change in the vote again for the public, because someone in the next project said that in case of secret voting there might be a surprising result again. So it's public. I would just like to say to you, by the way, that the municipal council is voting in a secret vote on the election of a jury of the general court. Dear fellow Members, Members of the Law and Justice, the authors of this project have clearly come to the conclusion that the senators are less informed than the councillors. And I say this with the utmost respect for all the councillors in Poland. In the municipalities' councils. What do we got today? We're practically throwing a constitutional complaint into the basket. That is the effect of this bill, which you will be voting on in a moment. [[Not a constitutional complaint.]] Extraordinary, sorry. [[Yeah.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course you're right, Marshal. And I'm so glad someone's listening to me. [[But I was just listening right now.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'll be right with you, Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why is it throwing an emergency complaint in the trash? Because it can be rejected at any time. That's the record. On the pretext that it does not meet the requirements of being important for the legal order. Maybe someone in this room will tell me today. Because, of course, there are no ministers or representatives of the ministry, what that means. None of you will answer that question because no lawyer can answer that question. We're picking up the Justice Minister's asses. Well, we've been told, to you, to all of us, that it's so smart that the Minister of Justice should be doing this. And then what? The other way. We're just going back to the process. I'd like to remind you. No expert opinion, no discussion. It's been like this for a week. Marshal Kuchciński, I don't know why, he's in such a position that they don't even come... I don't know if that's what happened here, but there was no one from the ministry, and there were committee meetings. The government didn't come, they didn't get to the Sejm, they didn't get to Parliament, and we paid attention to the next committee meetings. In the case of this law, I am not particularly surprised that no one from the Ministry or from the MPs... I would just like to remind you that Mr Ast has signed all these projects and that he has exactly signed them under projects that absolutely contradict each other and are not compatible in any way. I wouldn't want to sign another motion that makes a 180-degree turn through the stern. But what do we have in this bill, in this project? The law office showed five very serious mistakes, and the most important thing is that it's practically unknown when a Supreme Court judge has to retire. One rule gives 2 possibilities internally contradictory, and in my opinion in practice it is so constructed that you can keep the judge in check until you are seventy years old. There was no one from the Ministry of Justice to answer that charge. And I can bet with you today that in six months we'll be standing here and you'll be working on the next shift. Dear fellows, the King is naked. It's not a particular malice towards anyone, it's just the king's naked. This expression that has been made under the influence of the European Union... And no one in this room has any doubts, not even a moment to think that it might be different. You all know that. Are you saying that this is an expression of concern for the justice system? No. This is the use of the justice system all the same as, without a holistic look at all this, and these are the vessels connected. There's not even anything to say about porcelain here, because this elephant has passed so far that you can't even say that you have to wonder that something isn't broken. And I'd like to tell you that this is what's going on with me... here's another one for Professor Zarin... Well, as I look at why you're changing this, I'm reminded of two things. First of all, a certain emperor who said pecunia non olet. Secondly, I would like to remind you of such a scene from the Flood, as Bogusław Radziwiłł talked to Kmicice and said: And here under the Republic, you can set up a justice system. That Rzeczpospolita is a piece of dress, put the dress behind which the Swedes, Chmielnicki, Tatars are dragging, and we with the prince of the voivode have decided that we will have something in our hand. Because that's how the forces around the justice system work. Dear colleagues, I will vote against this law primarily because once again, even though there is a phrase here that I support, i.e. Turn to the president, as I always said... I will vote against the bill for one main reason: it is another law written on the knee and it is simply full of errors. We didn't have time and we didn't have an opinion. We didn't have a way to change that. None of you during the proceedings of the bill, which is the opposite of the changes that have been made since the year, aimed at making things worse, and so to speak, taking justice... It is a retreat, and I would like to point out that none of you have said a single word about it during the debate. Nobody. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u159	We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on Senator Aleksander Pociej's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 18 were in favour, 54 against. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 18 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. We are back to discussing item 25 of the agenda: the Law on the Promotion of New Investments. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 821 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission supported the Act by a majority and recommended that it be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u161	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. In the course of the discussion, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and Senator Kazimierz Klein submitted their conclusions. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 17 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Promotion of New Investments. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: a law amending the Law amending the Law on Cash Benefits from Social Insurance in the event of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of the law without amendments of Senate printing No 814 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 64 were in favour, 2 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 820 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u162	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u163	Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Jan Rulewski submitted their conclusions during the discussion, and Senator Jan Rulewski was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. [[Respecting my vote, I refuse.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 3 against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. I would like to inform you that the order of the 60th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jan Filip Libicki first. There you go. Later, Senator Zientarski, Senator Shark and Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make two statements, but I think I can fit in the time limit. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, Mr Joachim Brudziński, and to the Head of Border Guard, General Tomasz Praga. It's about my constituency case. There is a foundation in my constituency that intends to deal with medical assistance for Ukraine, that is to say, providing medical equipment that is no longer used in Polish hospitals and can be useful there. My question to the Minister and to the General is as follows. What conditions must be met, what procedures should be taken, and how should all this be carried out, so that the transport of medical equipment, which will go to the city of Nowoyaworsk in Ukraine in July, can be efficiently carried out and passed through the border? I would ask you to indicate the procedure in this case so that the authorities of this foundation can meet all these conditions in advance. This is the first statement. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Education, Anna Zalewska. I would like to say that in recent days, your Małopolska tutor on Twitter has referred to the ongoing protest of people with disabilities and their parents, saying that this is the exploitation of young people by adults for private, specific purposes. And this Twitter entry was also decorated with this picture where mom pushes the baby in a wheelchair, and in the back holds a knife, I don't know who it's pointing at. This is quite strange behavior if you consider that such tweets are constructed by a curator of education, who should rather, if already, express concern about whether these young people are in the right conditions and not allow themselves to be involved in certain politically. He's a clerk, whatever. This is not the first case of such behaviour by the Polish school curator, because I will remind you that some time ago she also expressed on Twitter the opinion that Poles who passed the proper exam before the Institute of National Remembrance should be the guides in the concentration camp in Oświęcim. These are all political statements. I understand. Your parole officer has the right to, as I say, get carried away by a political temper, but maybe not as a parole officer. I would therefore like to ask Minister Zalewska what she intends to do about it. In the first case and now, in the latter case, did she take any action, or was she going to have an interview, or could the probation officer cancel? It seems to me that if your parole officer has a political temper, it might be worth recalling her position and putting her in the upcoming municipal elections. Then she will be able to devote herself to her own, so to speak, political interests without prejudice to the function she performs. I would ask you to answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grażyna Shark, please. [[Oh, no, now Mr. Senator Zientarski.]] Oh, Senator... Excuse me. [[I'm ready.]] I thought he was still there... Good. Okay. [[Yeah, yeah. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] Good. [[Just for a second...]] I didn't look at it right. Okay. You took the senator... Please, he's getting ready...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u166	Yes, yes, of course. Now. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2 statements. These are statements by Senator Shark, mine and Senator Jan Rulewski. The first is a statement addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers on 25 million PLN grants to CBA from the Ministry of Justice. Dear Prime Minister, The CBA is a special service for combating corruption in public and economic life, in particular in state and local authorities, in accordance with the Act. Its activities should be completely independent of other controlled administrations. The CBA's activities are financed by the State budget and the amount of the budget is set out in the Budget Act adopted by Parliament, in part 56 of the Central Anti-corruption Office. This institution is headed by the Head, who is the central body of government administration supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers. However, in response to the statement of the Polish Senators of 19 October 2017 addressed to the Minister of Justice and requesting the submission of a list of entities and organisations which received funding from the Justice Fund In addition to the amount of the aid, information on the conclusion of the agreement of 29 September 2017 to carry out the tasks of the Justice Fund for the amount of PLN 25 million from the CBA was provided. The justification provides a general statement on the allocation of funds to combat crime by individuals in the public finance sector. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the Justice Fund, the Fund for Victims and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, is a state-owned special-purpose fund, created in this House, aimed at helping victims and witnesses, combating crime and post-penitentiary assistance, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. In 2017, the total amount of grants for all NGOs dealing with the victim's assistance amounted to just over PLN 16 million, much less than the amount for CBA. In the information on the results of the CBA's activities in 2017 sent to the Senate on 30 March by the head of the CBA, there is no mention of this agreement with the Ministry of Justice. In the Budget Act for 2017 for Part 56 concerning The CBA was granted an amount of PLN 158.1 million. The amount of 25 million from the Ministry of Justice is a huge amount compared to the CBA budget. Information about this agreement is also not available on the website of the Ministry of Justice. Dear Prime Minister, in the areas of thematic preparatory proceedings initiated by the CBA, the area of justice is at the forefront. The purpose of the anti-corruption service is its full independence. It cannot be involved in any financial relationship. Is the agreement concluded with the Ministry of Justice does not violate these principles and allows control e.g. irregularities in the disposal of the Justice Fund, which amounts to more than PLN 270 million? Please also answer the following questions. Did the Prime Minister, as the supervisor of the CBA, have knowledge of the agreement and consent to it? Have the funds from the Ministry of Justice been transferred to the CBA? If so, how much time and how much? For which CBA statutory activity referred to in Article. 2 will be allocated these funds? Who's gonna control their spending? Why didn't the information on CBA's activities in 2017 and on the website of the Ministry of Justice contain information about the contract concluded? Have any other government authorities concluded financing agreements with the CBA or transferred funds to the CBA? We would also like to ask you to assess the fact that in the account of the Justice Fund the sum of the funds collected on 30 November 2017 amounted to PLN 270 million and to the aid organisations was allocated slightly over PLN 16 million. Are these measures to be collected, or are they intended to serve victims of crime? At the same time, on the basis of Article. 19 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, please send together the reply of the agreement of 29 September 2017 between the CBA and the Director of the Justice Fund. And a second statement, short, my statement and Senator Štark's, also addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, with four questions. First. What is the potential of the Prime Minister to carry out the scheme of "Accommodation +" since, when the housing cooperative law was amended, the cooperatives were deprived of capital supply. . membership of the law without an entry-in and participations and thus the executive and organisational capacity of housing cooperatives has been removed? Two. How does the Prime Minister intend to eliminate the unequal treatment of cooperative members in terms of rights, obligations and liability? Some have paid in and contributed and are liable for the loss of the cooperative, having contributed to the creation and distribution of the balance sheet surplus and others who are not involved in the creation of the financial surplus have not contributed or contributed to the participation, are not responsible and benefit from the distribution of the balance sheet surplus. Third. How does the Prime Minister intend to eliminate the introduction of a restriction on the freedom to choose membership that violates the fundamental principles of cooperatives within the meaning of international cooperative rules? And four. Do you foresee a pre-emptive amendment to the Housing Cooperatives Act? We ask, because, according to the co-operatives, there are provisions in the current law detrimental to housing cooperatives, discriminatory cooperatives and the fundamental rights of members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u167	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. And now Senator Grażyna Shark. You're welcome. [[Yes, sir. I'm on my way, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice and concerns the so-called. assessment of the efficiency of judicial work. In accordance with the amendment of the law on the system of common courts, which entered into force on 12 August 2017, the Minister of Justice could, within a period of not more than 6 months from the date of entry into force of the law, dismiss the President of each court without justification. During this time on the website of the Ministry of Justice several times, e.g. On 10 November 2017, 8 January 2018, 17 January 2018 and 13 February 2018, messages were published entitled "Evaluation of the efficiency of the courts' work," containing information on low efficiency in a particular court and on the appeal of the President of that court. All communications began with a similar statement of an analysis of a wide range of factors affecting the overall assessment of the quality of the work of the general courts. It was then referred to the low position of the court in the rankings, but each time it was given a position in the ranking in a different way. And one case was an indicator of control of influence in civil matters, otherwise The average duration of proceedings in economic matters, in the next average duration of proceedings in unsolved cases, and in the next e.g. an indicator on the control of the impact of criminal cases. This justification for the decision makes it seem that there were no objective criteria to assess the different courts, but the reasons for the action were invented, each time another random part of the assessment was taken into account. It's ripped out of the whole, matching the thesis. Is there one general, based on the same criteria of the ranking of courts in Poland? If so, please send it along with the information on who and according to which principles it is created. Are there corrective programmes for courts that take a distant position in such a ranking, or is it the only programme to change the President of the court? Please send a full list of the dismissed governors of the general, regional, district and appeal courts during the period referred to at the outset. I would also ask you to provide a table listing the location of each court in the rankings of the control of influence in criminal, civil, average duration of proceedings, proceedings in unsolved cases. I would also like to inform you about the average time of court proceedings in civil and criminal matters in Poland in 2015 and 2017 on a semi-annual basis. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome. Three signatures.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. One, two, three... The first signature is very illegible, but hard... Well, I don't know whose it is. I don't know whose signature this is. [[But it says so.]] [[Up there...]] Upstairs... [[It's all there.]] Oh, it's the senator. All right. Thank you very much. Now we'll know whose signature it is. Senator Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go. [[The Minister will check it out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u170	Statement addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. I want to bring up and describe an appalling and painful situation that happened two days ago. On Monday, May 14, at 3:30 p.m., I arrived at the Srebrzysko Cemetery in Gdansk to light candles on my wife Alina Pieńkowska's grave every week. Because I knew that the Arkadiusz Rybicki, the victim of the disaster in Smolensk, was to be exhumed at 7:00 p.m. on that day, I arrived much earlier. In this part of the cemetery there was already a cordon of the police and military police. Going to my wife's grave was blocked by a police officer representing himself as an aspirant, Chmielewski, who said he had orders not to let anyone through. When he asked outsiders if he had orders to shoot, he would, too, he said yes. He wouldn't let me pass even when I identified myself and pointed out the grave of my wife, which was about 100 m from the exhumation site. The convoy commander refused to come and talk to me. In view of this unacceptable situation, I ask the Prime Minister to inform me of the following matters. First of all, why was there no possibility of access to other graves for those close to you when the land was set aside? Second of all, who was personally overseeing the D.A. and the police to secure the area? Thirdly, whether the Minister for Justice, the Attorney General plans to act in the direction of Article. 231 of the Criminal Code, i.e. Finding out if the police or the authorities commissioning the police to take specific action. Didn't they exceed their powers in this case? Fourthly, whether the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration plans to control the state of training of police officers of the Provincial Police Command in Gdańsk or Because the issue of lack of elementary knowledge seems obvious, will it take action to improve this state of affairs? Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u171	Now please take the floor and make a statement to Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Are the messages here? There isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u172	Addressee: Honorable Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. Mr. Marshal! We, the undersigned senators, make a firm protest against the possibility of proceding in plenary sessions, namely: repeatedly extending the agenda by additional points; multiple breaks, as if unjustified; lack of opportunity to read the material; lack of expert opinions and the Legislative Office; no presence of government representatives. Such procession, in the style of fire department or emergency service, lowers the rank of our chamber. And underneath that are 18 signatures.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-16-senat-60-5.u173	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to speak? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 60th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 19 minutes 17]]
