ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Krzysztof Truskolaski, Sylvester Tulayev and Monica Wielichowska. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Monika Wielichowska. I consider the minutes of the 59th session of the Sejm to be adopted against the non-rejection of objections. I would like to inform you that, as a result of the withdrawal by the applicants of the draft resolution on the condemnation of Nazism, fascism and communism, contained in print No 2231, the item on the agenda for this project has become pointless. At its 59th meeting, the Sejm did not vote on proposals for rejection in the first readings of Parliament's legislative proposals: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, - amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, - on State aid to seniors, amending the Act on personal income tax and amending certain other laws. These are 2034, 2122 and 2182 prints. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the Act on social insurance for farmers and certain other laws. This is print number 2334. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its opinion on the proposal for a subsidiary member of the Court of State, in print No 2339. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of the matter. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Public Collective Transport Act, print No 2314. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft laws: - amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned Enterprises (Polish State Railways) and the Law on Rail Transport (Polish Railways), - amending the Law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, - on the Senate bill amending the Radio and Television Act, - about the Commission's bill to amend the Code of Offences Act. These are prints 2278, 2308, 1928 and 2242. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. This is print number 2340. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of the point: First reading of the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, print No 2291. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, a request was made for a debate on the committee's report on the Senate resolution on the revision of the Hunting Law. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for a debate on the Senate's report on Hunting Law will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 243 voted against - 162, with 8 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Good!]] I propose that the Sejm hear in the debate... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I propose that the Sejm hear in the debate about the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and some other laws of three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] Someone's objecting, but I'd ask you to... [[There's an objection.]] Who's objecting? 'Cause if there's an objection, what kind of a proposition is this guy making? [[Mr. Marshal, what did you propose? Because we didn't hear it.]] Mr Meysztowicz objects. There you go. [[Five minutes...]] Five minutes, okay. There was an objection to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I will therefore put to the vote the proposal I have proposed. So we proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of holding a discussion and listening to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 226 voted against 181 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted my application. If he didn't take it, then we'd have five minutes... We will discuss this point on Wednesday, tomorrow, at the end of the day. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate on the information of the Foreign Minister on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2018. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee has submitted reports: - on the request of plaintiff David Jackiewicz of 12 September 2017 to consent by the Sejm to the civil liability of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, contained in print No 2047, - on the application of the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik of 12 September 2017 supplemented on 20 October 2017 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Richard Petru, contained in print No 2173, - on the application by the head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December 2017 to consent by the Sejm to the detention and temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, contained in print No 2306. At the meeting of the Senior Convention, objections were raised to the day-to-day maintenance of these reports. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on The proposals to keep these reports on the agenda will be put to the vote. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed with the vote on the committee's report on Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Who among you is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: the committee's report on the immunity of the Member, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 259 voted against - 154, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the committee's report on Mr Richard Petru. Who among you is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on the immunity of Mr Richard Petru, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 257 against - 154, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the committee's report on Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. Who among you is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: the report of the Rules Committee on Immunity, the Sejm's consent to the detention of Mr Gawłowski, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 258 voted against - 153, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the findings made during the analysis of video recordings and other material documenting the unlawful behaviour of participants and organisers of the Independence March, which consisted in promoting fascism, calling for racial hatred and public insulting of the population group due to its racial affiliation - this is a request submitted by the Modern Poselski Club, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the reasons for the failure of the Government of Law and Justice in their efforts to move the seats of the European Banking Authority (EBA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) from London to Warsaw - requested by the Modern Posel Club, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the issue of freedom of expression and attempts to intimidate the police and the prosecution against: - journalist Wojciech Bojanowski, who, acting in the public interest, exposed the pathology of the prosecution's actions and revealed the gross abuses of police officers at the Wrocław-Old City station, who, in excess of their powers, could have contributed to the death of Igor Stachowiak, and: - journalist Tomasz Piątkow, author of the book Matierewicz and his mysteries, in which he reveals the links of the current Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz with former Communist security agents and mafia organizations originating from the Special Forces of the USSR, as reported by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask, I request, that an adjournment be made so that applicants can change, otherwise formulate this proposal. We would very much like to support this proposal, but it must be formulated differently. [[Which one?]] I'm talking about the Independence March - I'm talking to Mr. Nitras. The point is that he doesn't have a thesis that talks about participants. I guess it's the intention of the applicants to have this for some of the participants. We also know nothing about the organizers' actions. I therefore propose that we change the wording of this proposal. Then - willingly - we will be able to support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u3	Yeah, there's a request for a recess, okay, but to change the motion. Well, we're not able to change that conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, now we can only vote this out. So that I would ask you to withdraw from this request for a break, because we are unable to change that. This is the conclusion of the Modern Club. If the Modern Club withdraws this request, then of course we will not vote. I can't see, I can't hear. So... [[Wait a minute.]] Okay, there's a request for a recess. [[Let's vote. It's a waste of time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting on a request for a break. Who among you is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 91 votes against and 327 abstentions. The Sejm's request for a recess has been denied. We are voting on the request for information on the arrangements for the behaviour of the participants and the organisers of the Independence March. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 155, against 263, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for information on the transfer of seats of European offices - I quoted earlier and presented the whole title of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 185 voted against - 235, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information on police activities and the prosecutor's office on journalists. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 177 voted against - 237, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on persons who are being sentenced to prison sentences and who have been subject to free detention or detention measures and who have been acquitted during the trial or following the resumption of proceedings or dismissals, as well as on compensation for wrongful conviction, temporary detention or detention, as requested by the Kukiz Club.15 The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Culture and means of transmission - immediately after the end of the votes, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 14, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Public Finance - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 19. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Joint meeting of the Parliamentary Renewable Energy and Parliamentary Energy Team. Energy Winter Package - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 4:30. In addition, I would like to inform you that the pastoral ministry of parliamentarians invites ladies and gentlemen to the Lent retreat which will take place from 21 to 23 March this year. They will start on Wednesday 21 March at 3 p.m. 20 at St. Aleksandra at pl. Three Crosses in Warsaw, Thursday 22 March and Friday 23 March - at 3 p.m. 7.30 in the Seym Chapel at the House of Parliament. The retreat will be led by Fr. Professor Marek Kotyński from the Papal Theological Department in Warsaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u5	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise (Polish State Railways) and the Law on Rail Transport (Prints No. 2263 and 2278). I ask Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a report on the first reading, on the examination of the government draft law on amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise of Poland State Railways and the Law on Rail Transport. The Commission carried out its first reading, considered this project. Legislative and clarification and drafting amendments were adopted during the process. All three of them concerned Article. 2. And so, according to Amendment 1, in Article. 2 in point 3 concerning Article. 90. The following point 3b is added: Amendment 2: 2 in point 4 concerning Article. Article 9q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 1 It was decided that point 8 is replaced by the following: Amendment 3: in Article 2 in point 7 in Article. 9yd is requested to convert the investor into an entity. As a result of the work, the committee recommends the adoption of the Polish State Railways Act and the Railway Transport Act from print no. 2263 together with the amendments in their entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u7	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome. There's no envoy? Is he coming? Good. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the government draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise The aim of this project is to remove barriers to the implementation of investment projects, including the construction of railway tunnels, as well as to improve the arrangements for the functioning of historic and tourist railways. The changes introduced are the result of the demands of railway investment entities, non-governmental organisations of rail enthusiasts. Non-governmental organisations have for many years called for the possibility of free transfer of railway assets. Designed solutions will be an instrument to support the development and maintenance of historical and tourist railway lines. At the same time, they will allow the largest railway companies to dispose of property that is unnecessary to operate, but only generate additional costs. The amendments to the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State-owned enterprise in Poland include inter alia: introducing the possibility of free transfer to non-governmental organisations of PKP movable property constituting monuments of railway technology and materials recovered as a result of repair or modernisation work. They will allow free transfer of railway lines or sections of railway lines to the management board of local government units. The amendments to the Rail Transport Act provide for a new exemption from the provisions of the Law for rail transport carried out on lines with a track width of less than 300 mm, which will clearly regulate the situation of parks or gardens. The changes made will enable Narrow Track Railway Managers to obtain funding, including from the local authorities concerned. The current version of the legislation introduces facilitations in the operation of active historical vehicles, which have been given a new definition. With regard to investments requiring the construction of a tunnel in the draft law, it is proposed to clarify the rules allowing the use of immovable property to be restricted. This limitation will be introduced by decision of the voivode with the permit granted for the construction or reconstruction of the tunnel with accompanying infrastructure. This change will allow investment and maintenance activities without the need to buy back the land under which the infrastructure is being built. The rights of owners, users or land-holders will be secured by establishing the right to compensation for a fixed limitation of ownership. This solution will facilitate the implementation of investments related to the construction and modernisation of railway tunnels, as well as their use, especially in urban areas, where in the framework of the implementation of the above mentioned. investment can significantly reduce costs related to land buy-out, problems with the reconstruction of the existing communication system, problems with negative environmental and safety impacts. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to numerous positive aspects of the proposed changes, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Grabarczyk will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u10	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Act amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise Polskie Koleje Państwowe and the Act on Rail Transport, print No 2263, contains a number of interesting solutions. The first group of rules concerns the possibility of transferring railway lines to local governments. This applies to whole lines, but also to sections of railway lines. However, under one condition: for the purpose of continuing the operation of these lines for a period of not more than 3 years. The manager of these lines will be able to transfer the lines to continue operation without the agreement of the Minister of Infrastructure. It'll make it easier to make decisions. The second group of provisions concerns the possibility of transferring the assets of PKP or other railway companies to non-governmental organisations. This applies both to vehicles of historical importance and parts of railway lines, devices which are the result of the renovations, the modernisation of railway lines. The beneficiary can be not only non-governmental organisations, but also the local government - even the local government that has taken over part of the railway lines or the whole railway line. It is important to clarify the catalogue of conditions that beneficiaries must fulfil. These solutions may allow not only to reduce the costs of railway companies, but also to increase the tourist attractiveness of small homelands. It's a good solution, deserves support. But the fundamental change concerns the possibility of restricting ownership in relation to the planned investments that require tunnelling. And these solutions are really waiting for contractors who have already signed a contract for the construction of a railway tunnel in Łódź between the Łódź Fabryczna and Łódź Kaliska stations. They don't really have the opportunity to start this investment today, because we're just doing this right now. These laws deserve to be supported. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will support these solutions. It is worth asking whether we should go even further, because the Ministry of Infrastructure has already been working on solutions that would concern the right of construction - similar works continued in the Ministry of Justice - or so-called. a layered property, otherwise referred to as 3D property. Why? Because the proposed solutions that limit ownership for tunnel investments only solve part of the problems, but above all do not release the enormous potential that lies in the real estate occupied by railway lines within large cities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] agglomeration. These solutions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u12	...which relate to layered property would help to activate this potential. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u13	Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome. Are you an MP? Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I would like to present a position, comments on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise of the Polish State Railways, contained in prints no. 2263 and 2278. As we can conclude and as we read in the government project, and according to what we talked about at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, the project concerns, one can say, facilitating the functioning of the railways and removing barriers by supplementing and clarifying the current regulations on the implementation of investment projects, including, among others, investment projects. construction of railway tunnels, as well as regulations on the functioning of historical and tourist railways. The changes introduced, as shown by the project, occur - whether we can discuss them or consider them - as if in two parts. In the first part we talk about investments, about changing the formula for the implementation of investments. This requires action on the broad regulation of legal conditions, but that is the objective, which is to facilitate preparation, compliance with the requirements that precede the start of the investment itself, and then also the operation and maintenance of the entire railway infrastructure in subsequent years. And it's important. We know from experience how long the preparatory work takes and how important it is to shorten the preparation time, especially if there are opportunities to raise external resources and finance individual investments. We are most often looking at the resources from the programmes in the current implementation period, as well as from programmes managed at national level, and this often also applies to programmes implemented at regional level. In the second part, we are talking about simplifications, which are supposed to be so-called. historical vehicles and infrastructure that served us in the past. I believe that this is also a very important area, because many actions are linked to the implementation of regional programmes, where emphasis is placed on increasing the potential of the tourist offer, on the use of the assets of the previous period - we have examples in many regions of the country - on the development of railway infrastructure, as normal as well as narrow-track infrastructure, and the inclusion of this in the new proposal, tourist offer, which enriches and expands the economic potential, one can say and often know about the regions, and gives the opportunity to create additional jobs. So that the club will be in favour of continuing this work and in due time, after preparation, finalization and adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u15	Thank you. Now Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise (Polish State Railways) and the Railway Transport Act (Polish Railways) 2263 and 2278. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's draft law aims to facilitate the functioning of the railways and to remove certain barriers to the implementation of investment projects, including the construction of railway tunnels. The project also proposes new regulations on the functioning of historic and tourist railways. According to the explanatory memorandum submitted by the Government, the proposed changes are the result of the demands of the entities making investments on railway lines, non-governmental organisations associating railway enthusiasts, in particular those formulated during the work of the railway monument protection team operating at the Senate Infrastructure Commission between February and August 2016. With regard to the Act of 8 September 2000 on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State-owned company, the proposed amendments meet the expectations of non-governmental organisations which have for many years called for the possibility of free acquisition of railway property. The solutions contained in the project can facilitate statutory and historical activities, including the acquisition and care of railway monuments. These solutions can also be an instrument for supporting the development and maintenance of historical and tourist railway lines. In addition, railway companies will be able to transfer unused property on the basis of the proposed rules. This is a kind of facilitation that will allow railway companies to reduce costs. The question remains why, from a group entitled to a free transfer of a railway line or a section of such a line in management, the government struck out the directly designated entrepreneur who had to be designated by the local government unit. Despite the arguments put forward by the government representative, the question remains whether changes should not, however, move towards an extension of the powers of such entrepreneurs. The draft also introduces a number of amendments to the Rail Transport Act of 28 March 2003. They deserve attention, among others. rules on the introduction of exemptions in existing rules for rail transport on lines with a track width below 300 mm, which will result in better regulation of the situation of parks and gardens. The project also introduces new regulations that will enable Narrow Track Railway Managers to obtain funding from new sources, including from the local authorities concerned. This will enable queues that are often local attractions to make better use of their potential. The submission also provides for the withdrawal of the existing exemption from the provisions of the Act to historical vehicles not moving on the railway network. This means that these exemptions will also apply to vehicles moving on the railway network. This raises questions about security issues, but we hope that the government will respond satisfactorily. Ladies and gentlemen! The changes proposed in the submission also concern investment processes on railway lines, maybe even above all. In the justification for these changes, the government points out that, once they have been introduced, certain barriers to railway investment, including the construction or reconstruction of a tunnel, will disappear and that they will guarantee the right to enter the property, as well as to carry out maintenance, maintenance or repair of the network. In addition, the project includes arrangements for expropriation and compensation for immovable property taken over by railway construction and amendments to derogations from the application of the technical specifications for interoperability. The proposed changes can make rail investments more efficient and timely. This is, of course, an answer to the demands of entrepreneurs who often have problems in these areas. However, it should be noted, Minister, that regulations alone are not enough, a professional approach is needed. Unfortunately, so far, the PiS government has paid more attention to clearing the past than to going forward, and after two years of government it would be appropriate, Minister, to show what has been done, thinking about the future, and here, unfortunately, the situation is unsatisfactory. Modern, of course, will support this project, because it is going in the right direction, but, Minister, we will be hard to account because another element is disappearing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which was an excuse for this unsatisfactory... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Company (Polish State Railways) and the Railway Transport Act. The proposed law amends the Act of 8 September 2000 concerning primarily regulations on the implementation of investment projects and regulations concerning the functioning of historic and tourist railways. The current regulations have introduced chaos in the use of land for investment. These solutions will allow the implementation of a project to modernise national railway infrastructure and thus to make appropriate use of the European Union funds. So far, we have faced a situation in which it was not possible to take over the railway line or its section free of charge in the management by an entrepreneur designated by a local government unit. The changes made will allow for a situation in which a local government unit can act as railway infrastructure manager, e.g. on the preparation and implementation of railway investments. The proposed changes will also benefit history organisations. Associations and foundations will be able to become owners of railway monuments, will be able to take care of them, which will also be an instrument to support the development and maintenance of historical and tourist railway lines. At the same time it will allow PKP SA, PKP PLK SA to dispose of property which is not currently used to conduct their current business. This law introduces the concept of a historical vehicle and a tourist vehicle. Defining the concept of a historical vehicle, it was first of all indicated that it was a vehicle entered into the inventory of museums within the meaning of the Act of 21 November 1996 on museums or in the inventory of museums or historical monuments, or the voivodeship register of monuments - within the meaning of the Act of 23 July 2003 on the protection of monuments and the care of monuments. Added in Article 4 in point 6i above, the aim is to define the categories of commercial vehicles not to meet public transport needs, but above all to meet social needs of a nature, e.g. emotional, related to the conservation of cultural heritage in a given region, technical education, active leisure, infrastructure tourism and industrial tourism. So this is the nature of this article. Art. Paragraph 9s. The provisions relating to the decision to determine the location of the railway line and the restrictions on the use of the property are addressed. These records are intended to address issues related to the construction of tunnels in the framework of investments and railway projects. The existing standards have been clarified in order to clearly and undisputedly indicate the feasibility of these investments. Regulation of investment projects requiring tunnel construction is particularly important in the case of linear investments carried out in urban areas, where there are technical possibilities to place investments under ground, without the need to expropriate property. In view of the positive changes proposed, the Circle of Polish Free and Solidarni will support the governmental bill amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Company (Polish State Railways) and the Railway Transport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u19	Thank you very much. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm opening the question section. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The proposed law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise Polskie Koleje Państwowe is a necessary and expected regulation. It will facilitate the restructuring and proper use of railway assets. My question concerns the extent of this restructuring according to the Ministry. What do you think the number of railway lines could be subject to such restructuring, transfer to local governments? 'Cause that's what the bill says. What part of the assets in terms of value can this process include? And the second point that I want to draw attention to - one of my predecessors has already talked about it - is the matter of the Layer Property Act. This is indeed a very necessary regulation. Is the Ministry [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is he working on that regulation? A parliamentary team was formed in the Sejm, which will continue its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u21	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. First: Are you convinced that these provisions will actually speed up the implementation of rail investments? I ask, because we are all aware that these shifts in project implementation are very large. We still remember from previous years that the funds earmarked for railway renovation had to be moved to highways because there was no way to spend this money. Is this going to improve these actions at the moment and reduce these delays that are? And the second question: Are the records concerning narrow-track, historical or park railways the result of appeals and suggestions from the managers of these railways, or did you think from the top that such solutions would be the most beneficial? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u23	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u24	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The tunnel bill will solve this one problem, how to dig tunnels under the conditions of large agglomerations, how to implement railway lines in these tunnels, how to repair, repair them in case of damage and failure. But in big cities, railway lines often run right through the middle, through the centers of these cities, often cutting down cities into parts. The tunnel bill will not solve the problem of using this space. Therefore, I will repeat the question already asked by Mr Gryglas, but I will only ask it differently, i.e. not whether work is ongoing, only when it is completed [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when that project comes up in the Seym, it's a layered property project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u25	Mr Sylvester Khrushch, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to continue to ask questions to the Minister. I am an engineer, I am a designer, and if there are arguments that we cannot make any investment, then I answer that there are real dates, real regulations, real standards that define whether we are able to implement the investment in the right time or not. Therefore, Minister, I have a question: should this law, these regulations concerning the construction of tunnels be introduced earlier, or did we know earlier, or could we have done so before? On the other hand, can the introduction of this law in any way disrupt this time of design of tunnels in Łódź, i.e. the connection between Łódź Kaliska and Łódź Fabryczna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u27	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a very specific question. I wanted to ask you about the railway line from Jelenia Góra to Lwówek Śląski, about which I made numerous interpellations. This very beautiful railway line, running through landscape parks, has been closed for 2 years. The inhabitants suffer very much because of this, and we can even talk about the exclusion of communication. Will this bill give a chance to move this line to the office, to the regional government, which agrees to its adoption and renovation? Currently, this line is not transferred to the local government or renovated. The answers constantly multiply the very high costs of renovation, which probably have already been increased several times on paper and the inhabitants suffer. I'm asking you to answer that question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u29	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are many such railway lines that require repairs. You can mention the line Bielsko-Biała - Cieszyn, Minister, line Żywiec - Sucha Beskidzka. These are such lines, and they are beautifully located, which I would say are an impetus to the development of these regions, but the state, the government of PiS has forgotten about them. I don't know why. Minister! I will also ask you to clarify the question of when, because Minister Grabarczyk rightly asks here not whether this law on layered property will appear, but when it will appear, because it could actually solve many problems. Minister! I'm also asking you to answer the question of who, where... Perhaps it is worth mentioning examples of tourist and historical lines that will benefit from these regulations. I think it'd be worth it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that society is aware of the real consequences of the rules we adopt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u31	Thank you very much. I am closing the list of Members. Now please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Bittel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the first words, I wanted to thank you for this good assessment of the government presentation that we have today's opportunity to discuss. I hope that this will be appreciated. I will try, in a few words, to address the questions and doubts raised by him. Firstly, I would like to say that this law in the tunnel section clearly supports investment in Łódź and there is no circumstance that there will be any problems with the adoption of this law or against it. There is also no delay with regard to the work set out in the schedule because there are no such provisions, and this is because the work is done in the formula design and build. Now we are in the design stage, and the rules are needed at the time of the administrative decision. So it is worth saying right away that there is no such solution, there is no reason to say that there may be some delay, and that clearly needs to be emphasised. On the question of why only local authorities, I would like to point out - Mr Suchoń said this in his club speech - that we are de facto making legislative amendments in this submission, because there was a reference to legislation that is no longer in Polish law. Therefore, the formula remains the same, and the local government is a very reliable partner for us, i.e. One that can be relied upon, which has a well-known social needs - best. It is evident in this House that the idea of self-government is a very good solution, and it is no longer necessary to justify it. Therefore, recourse to self-government, not to entrepreneurs who conduct business activities - and very well that they lead such activities - has other objectives. Self-government is aimed at meeting collective needs, and entrepreneurs are aiming at earning, and this synergy will be met through these rules. I'm glad... Mr Meysztowicz asked if it would actually accelerate. Yes, this law will actually speed up, because the key barriers in the investment process - identified by many entities and people dealing with these issues - are always a matter of real estate at the first stage, and then there are also construction requirements. The first stage, i.e. the stage of acquiring real estate and obtaining legal titles in this area, is always complicated, difficult, and compensation, fair compensation, which belongs to the owner, who either has limited rights or is even excluded from the property... It is extremely important for him that these rules are clear, legible and that procedures be smooth. Therefore, this formula will be adopted against the background of the application of the law after the amendment. I would not like to mention at this point and at the moment railway lines which will be adopted by the local government, which thanks to this law will receive the support of the local government or which it will be easier to function, because such examples are really very much. The change in these issues is for a reason, the historical change and the support for narrow-track railways or less used lines. This is a general postulate - the postulate that was born has been repeated for years. We're dealing with a case that's been mentioned for years, but that's never been done like this. We respond to the needs of those who carry out their association activities in such a way as to cultivate the railway tradition that we want to cultivate and which should be nurtured in such a way as to provide support, i.e. try to be less disturbing and more supportive. That is the purpose of this presentation, and I think that the fact that we have met with a good reception also in this Chamber shows that this is the direction in which we must and should follow in a very, very consistent manner. The Layer Law Act... Mr Suchoń mentioned that accounting time was supposed to be over. Let me put it this way: at this point, it should be said that under the Layer Law Act, she broke her teeth in a codification commission, which is high-end lawyers. At the level of the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are considering taking this initiative because we have great confidence that, even from a strictly sectoral, railway point of view, such a solution would be extremely useful for many different reasons, including those mentioned by Mr Grabarczyk. And that's what we're considering. If we make such an effort, I can't judge at this point, because I'm not authorized to do so at this stage. Nevertheless, I am also aware that this issue needs to be sorted out. Then we would join countries that have solutions that could have a positive impact on investment processes not only in the city centres, but also in many other cases. These rules would also solve many other practical problems, such as the management of viaducts on different railway lines or roads of different classes, and thus with different managers. Finally, I wanted to say that... I must say this clearly to make this clear: the situation in which we are in the framework of the current European perspective, the current perspective, compared to the beginning of 2016 is diametrically different. At the beginning of 2016 advanced processes were not actually there. There were projects that were staged, and they were carried out. There was no paperwork. Although tenders were announced, but two stages, without feasibility studies, without specifications. Please be aware that at the moment, as it will go well, we will conclude the tender that has been under way since mid-2015, on GSM-R. Soon, I hope, we will sign the agreement and move from the talking phase to the implementation phase. So this effort, which was made for 2 years by the beneficiary, Polish Railway Lines, should be appreciated, should be received positively. We're very, very advanced. We are the leader in the CEF, we must say to ourselves, the European leader in the CEF, in the use of the CEF, and we are very advanced in the perspective of all European funds in general or, even more broadly, of the implementation of the National Railway Programme, because this programme also consists of national funds. So I would like to say very strongly here that the progress made over the last two years has been enormous. Plus two sentences. We are also thinking about the next perspective so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where we will not have projects to carry out from the next perspective. I'm sure she will be. We don't know what she's gonna be like, but she's gonna be there, and we're gonna have to... [[Let's do high-speed trains.]] ...to be perfectly prepared for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u33	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws (prints Nos 2156 and 2308). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report on printing 2156. The first reading of this project took place on 6 February 2018, while on 27 February 2018 the Commissions: Public Finance and Infrastructure worked the draft article after the article. The proposed law amending the law on the road freight monitoring system aims to ensure a more efficient functioning and better monitoring of the carriage of goods indicated in the act. As set out in the Act, it is appropriate to monitor not only road transport but also rail transport, as well as transport related to medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices as defined in the notice referred to in Article. 78a paragraph. 14 Law of 6 September Pharmaceutical Law. During the public consultation, comments were submitted, which are reflected in the Act. They will directly reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. Given the differences in road and rail transport, the proposed regulation takes into account the specificities of rail transport. It's said here, among other things. that the inspection will take place on railway sidings and not during the total transport or the duration of the carriage of goods. Despite the fact that exports abroad of drugs at risk of lack of availability in Poland are prohibited, the problem has not been completely resolved and Polish pharmacy continues to face the problem of access to innovative or advanced medicines. It is therefore necessary to include a system for monitoring the carriage of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices set out in that Act. It was proposed that the Act should enter into force 14 days from the date of its publication, with the exception of certain provisions. Legislative amendments and 10 substantive amendments were tabled to the draft law. As far as the individual amendments are concerned, for example, in order not to extend, I would say that the 1st amendment has changed the wording of the provision to the following: the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport. For example, in Amendment 3, the term "transfer" was used, and after the discussion the term was changed to "transfer of goods." Amendment 9 provides that for the presentation of the means of transport at the time and place referred to in paragraph 9 respectively. Three and four... The point of this change is that quite often, as the Minister said, situations in which the carrier delivered the goods quite circumstantially, to say the least, he was going from Germany to Bulgaria through Lithuania, as was said directly. So this rule changes the situation. In the next amendment, the amendment moves in this direction to reduce the penalty for errors committed which do not relate to carriage but are merely of a formal nature. People are just wrong, that's our disability, and that's why they reduced the penalty for making mistakes like this out of 10,000. Up to 2,000. zł. We come out here to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. As far as the next changes are concerned, e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 the entry to be completed by the word "road" shall be completed. The word "road' shall be left behind, but the word "rail' shall also be added. This is a consequence of previous changes. About the art. 6, which concerns medical devices, the monitoring of the carriage of medicinal products and foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses, has been replaced by "and'. This is the amendment that was discussed at the committee meeting. Also in the article. 16, ladies and gentlemen, the point of the amendment has been changed, which is that in the case of an illegal pharmaceutical inspection of the drugs transported, it will be possible to re-market them by selling by the head of the tax office responsible for the place of storage of the goods detained. This is intended to ensure that scarce drugs at risk of export do not wait until the end of the procedure - they could simply expire - they could only be sold immediately and placed on the market. The aim of this action is simply to increase the level of drug safety of the country. I mean, if it's like... Amendment 5, which was tabled, excludes the possibility for the administrative court to suspend the implementation of a decision issued by the authorities of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection to withdraw the authorisation to operate a pharmacy or a pharmaceutical wholesaler in a situation where a pharmacy or wholesaler participated in the so-called. reversed supply chain and contributed to the lack of medicinal products on the Polish market. At present, any decision of the authorities of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection shall be suspended by the administrative court and shall not be enforced until the final judgment of the court has been delivered. However, this is the situation that makes illegal drug exporters from our country perfectly function over the years, because the administrative court simply stopped the decision of the State Pharmaceutical Inspector. So we're changing the situation. I mean, if it's like... about the 6th amendment - selectively I refer - it also excludes the possibility for the administrative court to suspend the decision of the chief pharmaceutical inspector imposing a fine on an entrepreneur who has already exported medicinal products without the required authorisation. Such situations happen all the time. Thanks to all kinds of tricks and legal intricacies, the one who committed the crime avoids this punishment. We also have an amendment in Article. 8, which is marked as amendment 7. This amendment indicates that it must be clearly written so that there is no doubt that there is simply a closed directory of tasks for officers that they can carry out. These tasks must not be carried out by civil servants. Before the existing wording of the provisions was in force, the Act reported to us such comments as regards the implementation of the Monitoring Act that the officers would also have to carry out analytical and case law tasks. And this amendment clearly states that road control is only the domain of officials, and all other tasks related to case law can only be carried out by civil servants of the National Tax Administration. There is another amendment marked "No. " in the article. 8. This amendment is crucial because it will enable the National Tax Administration to cooperate with the Minister of Health in the effective fight against illegal drug exports in Poland. These individual amendments will have a significant impact on the sealing in terms of the whole illegal carriage of goods. The law is very important, very good, complementary to the previous excellent actions of the Government of Law and Justice, thanks to which we have the sealing of the tax system. I propose to the High House that it be adopted. I hereby submit a very positive opinion from the Joint Committees on Finance and Infrastructure on the follow-up to the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u35	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. I would therefore like to draw attention to a number of points. I would like to stress that the overarching objective of the proposed bill is to combat tax fraud and to counter the mass sale of medicinal products by wholesalers to foreign contractors at the expense of the Polish drug market. The introduction in 2017 of the Law on the monitoring of the road freight transport system resulted in the transfer of sensitive goods to rail transport, as confirmed by the analysis of the National Tax Administration. Therefore, it requires supervision in the model of the road system taking into account the specificities of the railways, as well as rail transport, which is what we are doing in this draft law. The issue of drug exports is problematic because it causes a lack of medicines in Poland, especially those that are important for saving lives, modern, necessary. They are not available for Polish patients. As a result, this problem has already been monitored and observed since 2012, but is still unsolved, increasing. Despite the prohibition in this respect, the Minister for Health, who has presented a list of medicines which cannot be exported, this list is constantly extending and already reaches 180 items. The basis for this is the fact that medicines in Poland are cheap and refunded to a large extent. Some of these drugs are sold on the black market without VAT, CIT, PIT. Moreover, we are dealing on the one hand with a deficit, with difficulty of access, and on the other hand with unjustified margin-based fortunes, which amount to several hundred or several thousand percent. We want to fight this. A number of amendments were tabled during the meeting of the Joint Committees, which also took into account the demands of the social side to make the draft law less burdensome for economic operators, to reduce administrative, bureaucratic burdens, and to make it difficult to carry out activities that may result from transport controls. These amendments were presented in detail by the rapporteur. I would like to say, on behalf of the club, that of course we support them. We clearly support the entire draft law because it will contribute to better typing for control, sealing the tax system and increasing the government's revenue from VAT and excise duty, slightly increasing the burden on businesses, and only large - medium and small ones will not be affected by this. Adaptation of the IT system at its disposal, e.g. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, to the IT systems of the control services, will make the flow of information faster, accurate and more effective and at the same time cheaper. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u37	Thank you, Member. High Seym! Welcome to the gallery of the commune of Łomża with the chiefs and the Kurpiowska band. [[Applause]] Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. The proposal provides for the amendment of several legal acts, notably the law on the road freight monitoring system, because this act concerns almost 30 amendments, but also pharmaceutical law, and also the laws on public roads, road transport, vehicle managers, the National Tax Administration, the Police and the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. The aim of the amendment is to ensure a more efficient functioning and better monitoring of the carriage of goods specified in the Act. According to the project, the monitoring system will be extended to railway transport. The draft provides for rules to mitigate the obligation to notify the carriage of goods in the relevant register. It is worth noting the change introduced in the framework of the amendment that it is necessary to waive the grouping of goods according to the Polish classification of goods and services. Goods shall be determined solely on the basis of the combined nomenclature, the CN, used for excise goods and in international trade. The catalogue of controlled goods has been extended to include medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices which are at risk of lack of availability on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The project imposes new sanctioned obligations on carriers and certain authorities have far-reaching competences. The revision provisions provide for new competences for the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. The draft has an important role to play in the sanctioning provisions providing for penalties against entities failing to comply with the obligations imposed. As already indicated in our position at first reading, sanctions can not only affect those against whom the design is directed, i.e. operators involved in the illegal carriage of sensitive goods, but can also touch, and this is the reality, of honest entrepreneurs operating in the industry, for which irregularities in the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the law, often detailed and time-consuming, have arisen e.g. as a result of oversight. During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, a representative of the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels also pointed this out. So it is a good thing that, as a result of the work of the committee, the amount of the penalty referred to here was reduced from 10 to 2 000. zł, although if this is a technical mistake, I think it's 2,000. Evil is also quite a punishment. This direction of action by the legislator certainly deserves approval. It's a pity you can't meet him very often. Our legislator is now declaring love for the entrepreneur, but he is very eager to punish him for many things, impose sanctions, penalties, and also causes other ailments. In the course of the committee's meeting, the legislators made a number of comments. I emphasize their excellent work. On the other hand, this means that the project was characterised by many disadvantages in this regard. Given the purpose of the regulation I'm talking about, our club will vote in favour. We also appreciate the work of the committee positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Professor, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u40	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! While it is possible to agree with the provisions of the Act that systems should be sealed, as the Member has pointed out, it is also important to take into account honest entrepreneurs who, unfortunately, may suffer under this Act. The amendment itself has a few positive assumptions, but it also has two negative ones. The first is the amount of penalties up to 20,000. PLN and even 100,000. zł, which may also be affected by entrepreneurs who may have inadvertently misled the official, but these are also further obligations for entrepreneurs to supplement the notifications for wagon and train numbers. But what's most important in this bill is what's missing. There is no solution to the problems raised by entrepreneurs. What are the problems? First of all, there is no possibility to report a correction of the SENT notification. This is a problem that entrepreneurs are paying attention to. Namely, when a mistake is made, a human error, a human error, or a change in the character of the notification, there is no possibility to make a correction, which may entail very sad consequences, even multi-thousand penalties. The second point is the failure to exclude petrol stations from the legal regime. The Act obliges to report the transport of fuels purchased by the trader at the time of purchase. Let's think, for example. I buy over 500 liters of gas and take a receipt. Then the trader is not obliged to report this transport to the SENT system, but if two weeks later I go to this station and, on the basis of a receipt, I ask for an invoice, and I have the right, then I put the entrepreneur in an awkward situation, because on the one hand he has an obligation - because I demand an invoice - to report it to the SENT system, on the other hand it is too late because he is obliged to report it immediately. This is such a problem raised by entrepreneurs. I hope it's solved. As far as the other problem is concerned, this is an interpretation of the provisions of the law. The bill comes into force very quickly, it's very detailed. It's a question of interpretation. Entrepreneurs will have to interpret this law immediately in line with the future expectations of officials. Officials will be able to learn this law for 5 years, because after 5 years they will be able to initiate control in 5 years' time with knowledge after 5 years of validity of the amendment. Entrepreneurs will have no such privilege. Finally, of course, I will mention positive points. This positive issue is the inclusion of a rail freight monitoring system. It is also positive to simplify reporting procedures. It will be possible for a single declaration to carry goods of different types if the carriage takes place from one place to another. If the trader violates the provisions of the Act, which will be disclosed in the course of tax proceedings, tax control or customs-credit control, the penalty will not be imposed when it is established that there has been no reduction of the State budget's monetary claims. This, in my opinion, is the most important positive change, which is why, due to this point, Kukiz15 will not oppose the Act, will recommend its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u41	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws upon presentation of the report of the committee. These are 2156 and 2308 prints. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal presented to the High House contains a number of changes concerning the monitoring of the carriage of goods. As a general rule, these changes involve the monitoring of carriage so-called. sensitive goods carried out by rail, withdrawal from grouping of goods according to the Polish classification of products and services, remaining in the definition of the type of goods based on the combined nomenclature, covered by the monitoring system for the transport of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices as defined in the notice referred to in the current Article. 78a paragraph. 1st Pharmaceutical Law Act. Of course, in detail, this project has already been discussed at both the first reading and committee meetings. These solutions have their ratio legis, so most of them, I would say, meet the expectations of both honest entrepreneurs and the social side and generally respond to the need for some sealing in this area. But I'm gonna focus on those things that aren't good. The project also introduces such solutions that are quite dangerous for entrepreneurs, the first, on the basis of which it will be possible to call on the carrier to present the means of transport at a specific place, at a certain time, and the second is absolutely scandalous, drastic increases in penalties for honest people - and here I would like to emphasise once again, Minister - honest entrepreneurs in the transport industry. Here we have to say clearly: the PiS government wants to impose penalties only for the fact that entrepreneurs have not completed the form with some very simple and irrelevant data, such as. the name of the company, and it is obvious that this is absolutely secondary to the monitoring of transport. The most important are other sensitive, sensitive issues: the location of the goods, the route of transport, the place of delivery. However, for lack of such secondary information, the PiS government wants to impose up to 10,000. Evil punishment. If we approach this tactically, we should not say anything, just wait for these draconian punishments to irritate people, while during this time many Polish transport companies would fall because of this bureaucratic-financial lynch made on entrepreneurs by the PiS government. Of course, this cannot be allowed, which is why we are making an amendment that reduces these penalties to reasonable dimensions. [[That is a lie, sir.]] You've had your five minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u43	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u44	We are counting on it, sir, that for the PiS the condition and... [[You're lying.]] ...goods of Polish transport companies are just as important as budget revenue. Read it. You can come in here and answer why you want to punish honest entrepreneurs with draconian penalties. [[No one honest will be punished.]] If that's a lie, come here and say it. Similar doubts relate to the way in which the means of transport are based at the office's request. It's a very important subject. It can be concluded from the reading of the regulations that it is completely detached from market realities and will complicate the activity. It should be noted that each company applies its working time organisation system. All you have to do is get that information a few minutes later, someone doesn't pick it up, someone doesn't give it away, someone gets sick, the company unloads the product, then gets information about the need to replace the vehicle. The question is, who's gonna pay for this? As a result, it may be necessary to hire new workers and costs will increase. Instead of fighting for Europe's markets, our entrepreneurs are fighting the PiS government to stay on the market at all. Here we have to say that this attitude is absolutely not helping our companies to operate in those markets where countries apply protectionist practices, and, of course, this will not be the case for our consent. It is worth noting that the fight against the grey zone is an absolute necessity. There's no doubt about it. Together with honest businessmen, Modern demands such a fierce fight against the gray area. Unfortunately, so far we see further bureaucratic burdens and further obstacles. Mostly it is ordinary PR, and the increase in budget revenue, honourable Member, is not the result of your good actions, it is the result of the significant economic growth and the activities of the entrepreneurs you want to punish. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u46	On behalf of the Poselski Club I am now proposing three amendments to reduce penalties and I ask you to accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u47	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u48	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Since 18 April 2017, the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road has been in force. The current project is to extend these provisions to supervision of rail transport and medicinal products. It means a further sealing of the tax system and thus an increase in budgetary revenue. As you have already pointed out today in the Committee on Infrastructure, it will be a law on the system of monitoring the transport of goods after the introduction of the relevant provisions in other legislation. The primary objective of the proposed regulation is to include a system for monitoring the rail transport of sensitive goods, such as motor fuels and their derivatives, including ecodiesel, fuel additives, lubrication oils, alcohol-based defrosters, thinners and many others, as well as medicinal products, special purpose foods and medical devices. This aspect, which concerns this issue, we consider to be very important, albeit later, in the implementation, in the drafting of regulations implementing the law, it will really be necessary to be sensitive and very careful to formulate these provisions, because we already see today, and the evidence is our discussion and statements today, in how many issues of course this good and proper project can have different feelings and effects, because as usual, these details decide later on how it is implemented and implemented. It is right that we pay a lot of attention here, in these regulations, to extend cooperation with the chief inspector of pharmaceutical supervision and cooperation between resorts and offices. The issue of exports of pharmaceuticals and medicines is certainly a very important issue, already raised here in the speeches, but here I would like to draw attention to issues related to these restrictive provisions. It is good that we seal the systems, that we limit these areas, mechanisms and possibilities where entrepreneurs use different ways to circumvent the need to bear certain costs, but here I ask you to consider both in the formulation of thoughts and records and later in the formulation of implementing rules. As a whole, the club will support the adoption of this project. I think that these amendments that have been tabled, whether the doubts that can be considered in committee, will be clarified. I am convinced that the Minister will provide information here on many of these issues. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u49	Thank you. Four Members have joined the question. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u50	Minister, in the justification of the project, you write about solutions in other countries in the material accompanying the project. There are examples of only three countries of the European Union that have applied certain solutions to certain groups of goods. We are talking about Portugal, Hungary and Germany, where only restrictions on... Control, monitoring concerns certain transits of certain types of coffee only. Does that mean that for example. Germany does not monitor the carriage of other products? Does this mean that other countries do not apply such solutions as the Polish Government has so far proposed in the Road Monitoring System Act, which is being supplemented today by the Rail Transport Monitoring System Act? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, did the Polish solutions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u51	Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u52	...can they be an example? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u53	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the application of this law is and should be observed not to say: monitored - but it is already in the title of monitoring, so we can skip this term - because the extension of this to rail transport was just a reaction to certain phenomena. My question concerns the following: Is the application of this law observed and monitored on the part of the protection of business rights? When you see how it is used, do you also look at it from this point of view? ♪ 'Cause it's like everybody's here like this ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've been on the case, it's important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the strictness of this bill, because it's been in operation for some time now. Here are strange words about some lynching on entrepreneurs, even about the persecution of entrepreneurs. Has there been any bankruptcy of the company or are there dramatic situations resulting from the operation of this law for some time, for a year? That's the first question. The second question is about changing routes, strange routes. As the Minister sees it, is this phenomenon so common? Maybe there are some examples in this matter that entrepreneurs are obviously trying to deceive the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u57	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, my question must be about business. It is clear that it is very easy to impose penalties, and it is very easy to apply further repressive solutions. Besides, at first reading - I remember it quite well - on the question why in the article. 22 you raise this penalty of 5,000. To 10,000, the Minister said: 'cause there are a lot of punishments. Well, I understand that the point is to punish these entrepreneurs even more severely, so that the budget revenues from these penalties are even greater. Minister, I wanted to ask you: What measures have you taken so that entrepreneurs do not pay these penalties? What, I don't know, educational actions, information campaigns that you have applied to their spectrum, so that entrepreneurs know how to meet these sharp ones [[♪ The bell ♪]] Requirements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u59	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Piotr Walczak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u60	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Thank you for these questions, and thank you also for supporting this bill. As for individual questions, the first question concerns the situation abroad. In fact, this law functions primarily... That is, similar solutions exist in three countries: Portugal, Germany and Hungary, as the Member has pointed out. Similar solutions have also recently been introduced by Romania and Bulgaria, so these are the next countries that have extended this. But first of all, I'm paying attention to the fact that... As a matter of fact, last week I had the opportunity to be in the Russian Federation. Russia also shows an interest in our solutions, claiming that these are interesting solutions and that it will consider introducing them. I also have information from Germany that the Germans also want to expand this - because, as you have pointed out, today this concerns a rather specific product which, from our point of view, is coffee - Germans also look at our solutions, wonder whether they are not implemented. I'm just paying attention again to the specifics of our country. These irregularities, mostly concerning fuel and tobacco, actually affected our country quite seriously. We should also look at the fact that unfortunately it was our Polish criminals who used e.g. lubrication oil. Such a modus operandi e.g. He didn't perform in the West. So we have to pay attention to the fact that, above all, this is our innovative approach. In fact, the first system was the Hungarian system, which was quite similar, but we are the second country that introduced this solution. This raises growing interest in different countries. Lithuania has also asked us to present this system. You can see that this system arouses interest. I stress once again what I said at the first reading, what I said at the committee meeting: this system is based primarily on prevention, i.e. not on punishment, not on catching, but on preventing criminal procedures from being carried out. In answer to the second question of the Member concerning the protection of business rights, I would like to point out again that this law is largely our reaction after a year of monitoring - but I will use this wording - observation of the action of the SENT Act. After a year, we reached these conclusions on the basis of repeated conversations with entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that - according to what I know unofficially - POPiHN even wants to grant the National Tax Administration a special title for the implementation of this law, because this law from the point of view of entrepreneurs first of all causes that there are clear rules of competition. There are no criminals among the traders who trade these sensitive goods. Of course, detailed solutions can be discussed, but as far as most of these solutions are concerned, we go to the entrepreneurs after a year of discussion with them. I stress that very often both myself and my colleagues met with representatives of the road transport industry and the rail transport industry, and in this project we were developing precisely those solutions that would benefit not only the state budget, not only free competition, but also the safety of entrepreneurs. I would like to draw your attention - this is where it came from - to this solution: we go from PKWiU to CN codes. Why? Not from the point of view of the interest of the state budget. From an interest point of view, entrepreneurs who simply know the CN codes better. In this connection, I would like to emphasise once again that we are in close contact with the entrepreneurs concerned by this law. Because once again, I wanted to point out that this is not a bill that hits the whole transport industry, if we can use that word at all. This is a law that really concerns a small number of entrepreneurs who are involved in the transport of sensitive goods, and I stress this once again: sensitive goods. As for the operation of this law, I ask you, what the last quarter shows, the examination of the independent ALMARES Institute, which is actually an institute working for cigarette manufacturers, absolutely unrelated to the government or government centres? First of all, this law has led to a historic decline in the area of the grey tobacco sector. Today we have 12.7% when it comes to the gray area of tobacco products. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so important that as the only country we have such a long land border with countries where cigarettes are much cheaper. So the introduction of this has led us, despite these difficult geographical conditions - let's call it - to achieve what is in Western Europe, in countries that do not have a border with Russia, Belarus or Ukraine, where cigarettes are much cheaper. I would like to point out once again that the law has actually produced concrete results this year, and I say this, not by budget revenues, but by increasing fuel sales, by independent research on the grey economy. To answer the rapporteur's question, the sanctions - not even sanctions, and the irregularities found - were actually 1%. Controlled drivers. We're talking margin. The bill in this form has been in operation for over a year. These changes, which are, do not give rise to any tightening of the rules. These are primarily solutions that were proposed after the observation of the operation of this law by entrepreneurs. What's the most important thing? During this year her actions did not reach me any information about the destruction of the Polish entity, about any closure of the Polish entity by the National Tax Administration precisely because of sanctions imposed by this law. Once again, I would like to point out that, ladies and gentlemen, this is a preventive act. She is not meant to pursue and combat, but to make honest entrepreneurs free to run their business. That's what this bill is really about. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now respond to the issues that have been raised here, for example, the lack of possibility to correct the notification. Mr President, this is a possibility because it is possible to cancel the old notification and introduce a new one. There is absolutely no way that if someone makes a mistake in the application, the entrepreneur will suffer the consequences. There is absolutely a procedure that operates for a year, and there has never been any problem with its application. The same is true when it comes to the fact that this bill comes in quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, she's not coming in fast, because there are transition periods for entrepreneurs to get ready. It's been three months. Therefore, this is the case. Again, it is not true that we are introducing a law that we will be ready for, and entrepreneurs will not be. Besides, once again, this bill has been in operation for a year. Most of these solutions are functional and absolutely not... Those things that we've noticed, that's exactly what we're trying to fix in this bill. Okay, one last thing. Here, too, was the issue of gas stations and refueling, and possible punishment for drivers. Already in 2017, the Minister of Finance issued a clear interpretation in this respect. There are no such cases, no such cases have happened. There is a clear interpretation in this regard. That is why I stress - absolutely and with all responsibility I would like to say this - that this is not a law that has led to any disturbance in the transport industry today, to the fact that any people have gone bankrupt. At least - I stress this once again - this information has never come to me, and believe me, I see people in these industries very, very often. And that's the last line. It is on the basis of the demands - as you have said, that everyone can be mistaken - because everyone can be wrong, we are reducing this penalty five times. Therefore, it is, I believe, a great relief for entrepreneurs. I stress, ma'am, that the transport of goods which are at risk does not mainly concern small operators. These are large transport companies. So you also have to look. It's because of this prism. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, transit. The Member also asked that question. Transit is very problematic, because the fuel crime modus operandi in our country was based on irregularities in the declaration concerning the carriage of goods. Goods that left the tax warehouse, e.g. lubrication oil, and it was supposed to reach Germany, actually landed in one of our illegal fuel stations or at the station where it was marketed. So the issue of transit is crucial for us. And that's why for obvious reasons in this bill we pay attention to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u61	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, hereinafter referred to as the Act on the monitoring system. The purpose of the amendment to the law on road and rail transport monitoring system is even more efficient monitoring and efficient handling of goods in our country. The changes examined take into account the need for greater integration into the rail transport monitoring system, taking into account its specific characteristics, differences in the operation of road and rail services. Several provisions have been amended. For example, it will be possible to send a single application instead of multiple applications, for the carriage from one consignor to one consignee, to one place of delivery of the goods, one means of transport for different types of goods. The definitions of the carriage of goods and the means of transport have been modified. This will ensure that, unlike road transport, the means of rail transport will not be stopped, i.e. the detention of goods transported by rail will be at the place where the goods are delivered to the territory of the country. In the absence of innovative or advanced medicines available in the Republic of Poland, the bill correctly provides for an extension of the catalogue of types of goods to be subject to the transport monitoring system, to medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices, hereinafter referred to as medicinal products in the Act. This solution is specifically addressed to large railway carriers and companies operating pharmaceutical wholesalers, it will not affect the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore appropriate to allow the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector in the Act to access the data collected in the relevant registers. The arrangements for the detention of goods by the Customs and Treasury Service or the Police, as laid down in the Act, seem appropriate. The proposed law does not require an opinion, agreement or consultation with the bodies of the European Union. Designed changes to the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road are beneficial, improve the effective functioning and better monitoring of the carriage of goods within our country, therefore the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the procedated government bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u63	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Penal Code Act (Print No 2290). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u64	Dear Marshal, General! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a draft law on amending the Prison Service Act and the Penal Code Act, a draft regulation to improve the functioning of the electronic surveillance system in Poland. In fact, two elements, which are extremely important, are the content of the project and I would like to draw your attention to them and, of course, ask for further work on them and their adoption. First of all, it is about adopting solutions that ensure safe and effective enforcement of penalties in the electronic surveillance system, so as to propose that the rules be extended in such a way that they can also carry out supervision of the electronic surveillance system, to be so-called. the supervising entity of the entities which are directly subject to the Minister of Justice. In the second case, it is about improving the mobile surveillance system, it is about changing the functionality of the device used in it, introducing a new functionality in such a way that the system works, giving a better chance of contacting the person to whom electronic surveillance has been applied. This is of course also important for people who are sometimes protected by the fact that the same system works. On the basis of a statutory mandate, the Minister of Justice will have the possibility to decide that the Prison Service will be able to be an entity that not only supports the monitoring centre of the convicted. That's what she's doing today. I had the opportunity to be on the Central Prison Service Board, see how it worked. Indeed, it is very impressive. However, the second part of the tasks in the entire electronic surveillance system can be performed by private entities. This is the case today when he performs these tasks of the consortium on the basis of a signed contract. Of course, it receives certain measures in carrying out these tasks. They're called. patrols controlling the operation of the electronic surveillance system, and sometimes of course we need to act. The problem is that a private entity does not have such powers, for example. If you stop a person, only usually you have to call the police. Here is the vital weakness of the whole system. And the Prison Service, the Prison Service officers, of course, have the right to apply various types of direct coercion measures. This is a huge advantage in this regard. Of course, the fundamental issue is what philosophy we have when it comes to the operation of such a system. There are different systems and different possibilities. This is the possibility - and this is the case in the European Union - that it is up to the State alone, i.e. those who are state actors, that they are either public systems or mixed systems, private-public systems, or systems where we have a clear emphasis on private actors, such as. in Scandinavia, it is in the British Isles. So this model can be very different. However, we must, first of all, create such a model in order to look at it all through the eyes of those who are to be protected, and that is why we are proposing a change in this area. Secondly, this system must also be economically beneficial. And that's the system we're going to propose. Therefore, it is simply necessary to amend the Enforcement Penal Code and the Prison Service Act. With regard to the second issue, namely the improvement of this whole system, it is the use of the so-called. a portable recorder. That is the person with a GPS transmitter, which, ladies and gentlemen, is not sufficient to contact her in emergency situations. She must have a recorder, just like in the case of a stationary system, where there is a recorder, where in a situation where we see something happening, that person, for example. He's breaking the ban... Usually it is the fact that a distance in meters is provided for, that person must move, usually it is determined in the order in which days of the week, in what hours. If we notice in the monitoring unit that this area is being breached, that something is happening, then here we can contact immediately, because there is this recorder on the stationary system. And if we have a surveillance system that's close-up, mobile, then here we don't have those recorders, which is the only signal we can give... There are vibrations that signal that something is happening, that something is being violated, some kind of ban, but we can't get in touch with the person. This is indeed a very weak point of the entire electronic surveillance system. That's why we want these people to have this recorder so that this system can be complete, so that we can connect, issue commands with a portable recorder, so that this person can have this recorder. Especially, ladies and gentlemen, let's remember that the GPS tracker is a tracker that works less than a day, and you have to charge it for four or five hours, a few hours a day, so there's a weakness of the entire system. Someone said: What is this recorder? It's just like a phone call, usually in a world where you can contact a person. We also want to amend one of the provisions by extending de lege ferenda the scope of electronic surveillance also to measures other than criminal measures and safeguards. It is about extending the functionality of the electronic surveillance system in the future, we cannot rule out that there will also be changes in this area, so let's make this regulation as large as possible so that it actually works. I must say that I go to various meetings, meet people, they often ask: Minister, how is it with this electronic surveillance system, why not distribute it? Of course we're trying to spread it when we're dealing with convicts. Let us remember that there was at all a breakdown in the application of this system, but only when it comes to the penalty of the restriction of freedom. We returned at a time of good change to apply it in terms of prison sentences. Of course, we would like this system to be extended as much as possible, because we don't want to fill people with prisons. Why? Among other things, first of all, because of rehabilitation. It's better if you're a human being, for example. within the framework of the electronic surveillance system, he executes a prison sentence under the conditions of liberty, because he can work. It's very important, for example. for victims. Secondly, for purely financial reasons, because this system, ladies and gentlemen, costs three hundred dozen zlotys, 340 zlotys, 350 zlotys, while serving prison sentences, a month of such punishment in prison, in conditions where there is an isolated person, that is, ladies and gentlemen, ten times more, that is 3,400, 3500 zlotys, ten times more it costs the taxpayer and people ask why we do not disseminate it. We're trying to spread this system. Of course, we are also carrying out analytical work in the Ministry on the issue of extending the catalogue of people to whom the electronic surveillance system could be applied. But this change is a fundamental change, because it shows that today we will look at the whole system differently. It's just that it's a purely public system, not even a mixed system, but a public system. Of course, it can be mixed, because the rule gives such a right, it is this gateway, that in the future, if someone applies public procurement rules, it will have the opportunity to choose a private entity. But, in principle, we give the opportunity for a purely public entity to do the same - in this case, the Prison Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u65	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position towards the government draft law amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Penal Code Act, print no. 2290. We agree with the objectives pursued by the Council of Ministers in the preparation of this project. These include increasing the competence of the Prison Service within the framework of the electronic surveillance system, as well as the possibility of using portable recorders in this system. The amendment will result in the statutory power of the Minister of Justice to entrust the performance of the tasks referred to in Article on an optional basis. 43 of the Penal Code, the Prison Service. We believe that this will ensure continuous and efficient enforcement of penalties in the electronic surveillance system. In the case of the decision of the Minister of Justice, the Prison Service will take over from the commercial entity all the tasks of the surveillance entity, which include the execution of 24-hour intervention patrols by officials and civil servants of the Prison Service throughout the country with the protection by the Prison Service of necessary means of transport and communication and the safe transfer of data between the patrol teams and the Electronic Surveillance System Monitoring Centre related to the execution of penalties, criminal and protective measures. As a result, even in the event of serious critical events, when an authorised guarantor ceases to execute penalties in the SDE, the new regulation will allow for a smooth and urgent take-over of their execution by the Prison Service. This is a key argument in this case. Also in the event of a change in the functioning of the SDE in the future, the proposed regulation will allow for more flexible management of the system. In turn, the amendment of the article. 43n of the Enforcement Penal Code is dictated by the need to improve functionality and ensure compatibility of mobile surveillance devices. The supply of a doomed portable recorder will not only allow phone contact with the surveillance authorities, but will also ensure that his whereabouts are monitored in real time even if the power source in the basic telephone device, which is currently a GPS transmitter, is exhausted. And this is, from a practical point of view, an important issue to be changed. In contrast, the amendments to the article. 43n and Art. 43t of the Enforcement Penal Code standard the important obligation of the sentenced person to receive calls, follow orders and give explanations to authorised persons, including by means of a portable recorder. This case has to be settled directly in the bill. In conclusion, I would like to say that in our assessment, the proposals will improve the functioning of the electronic surveillance system. That is why I declare, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, that the club supports further work on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u67	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u68	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The electronic surveillance system allows permanent and discreet control of the behaviour of the convicted person. The court shall assign its duties. In accordance with this timetable, the person checked must, for example, stay at home or at another place where the penalty is held at strictly specified times. Ladies and gentlemen! Until now, the Prison Service has carried out certain statutory tasks related to the execution of penalties in the electronic surveillance system. These were mainly related to the operation of the monitoring headquarters. In the view of the Government, the powers of the Prison Service should also be extended to include the right to carry out other tasks impermanently related to the execution of imprisonment and the penalty for the restriction of liberty in the electronic surveillance system. I would like to say very clearly that the use of portable recorders as part of the electronic surveillance system is small in Poland. Only 4668 penalties are carried out under this scheme. It could be a lot more than that. I would like to point out that this is a very beneficial system. First of all, it allows convicts to maintain a relationship with their family, to do work for a living, and to reduce the population of the penitentiary units. We all know what the situation is in the penitentiary units. One educator in 40 convicted, one psychologist in 200 convicted. There's no, actually, effective health care. There have been numerous procedural negligence, the best example of which in this term was the case of Ms. Agnieszka Pysz, who died in an investigative arrest in Grochov, when she was not given effective medical assistance, she was ignored in her begging for it. The case was then referred to the Sick Bay Manager, who did not take this effective treatment. These are gross negligence, which is why the electronic surveillance system is also an important challenge. The second point is the speeches that are addressed by both the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman on electronic supervision. These are speeches which relate primarily to the more frequent use of this system in the case of non-alimentation crime. There's a very large group, I understand, convicts who are serving prison sentences, and they could use this system. As I said, it is the government's decision not to carry out this oversight, i.e. an external entity, as has been the case so far. The government's intention is that these actions be carried out by the Prison Service itself. We take this position as information, and we will inform the High Sejm about our approach to the matter at a later date. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u69	Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The failure of the Civic Platform led in 2015 to a drastic decline in the execution decisions in the SDE and, as a result, to the marginalisation of that institution in the field of criminal policy. Electronic surveillance has become a kind of punishment for freedom, rather than a way of executing imprisonment, through reformers with POs. To be honest, this surprised us, because it was probably the only action of POs and PSL against criminals, of course not those dangerous ones, but the smallest ones: non-paying alimony, driving motor vehicles in a state of drunkenness, the perpetrators of crimes of destruction of property and criminal threats. About these fat tax-deducting players, organizing VAT clubs, gambling and fuel companies, the Platform never forgot to take care of. This resulted in an action against the economic interests of the State, since the decrease in the number of sentences for the execution of imprisonment in the SDE resulted in an increase in the cost of keeping prisoners in prisons. In short, the Civic Platform, together with PSL, preferred to spend 3.5 thousand. PLN to maintain the prisoner than PLN 330 for the cost of living convicted outside the SDE penitentiary unit. The current government, and rightly so, has amended legislation and returned to solutions before 1 July 2015. As a result, the number of prison sentences carried out in the SDE has increased. That's right. It is not only economically, but also socially, that the detention of those convicted of minor offences in prisons is not only economically viable. It is no secret that isolation in prison conditions from a criminal point of view teaches nothing good, on the contrary, stigmatizes, removes social ties, causes job losses, and often breaks up the family. However, the efficient enforcement of penalties in the SDE requires constant monitoring, including the necessary legislative corrections. This is where the amendment is headed. There is no doubt that the Kukiz Club15 has extensively entrusted the Prison Service with the exclusive competence of the Minister of Justice to carry out tasks related to the execution of prison sentences in the SDE. So far, ladies and gentlemen, a functioning system has prevented contact with a convicted mobile dispenser via a device installed on the end. Currently, it is proposed to provide a portable recorder to allow such contact, which will thus provide for increased control in the execution of the penalty in the SDE. Of course, such a technical solution requires an additional legal enclosure, and in particular the sanctioning of the legal obligation on the convicted party to receive calls. Working in the judicial system for many years, I have often encountered problems arising from the application of free prevention measures. The best example here seems to be police supervision. In many cases, this measure proved to be fictional, as did the suspect's obligation to be in a specific place or to be banned from leaving the country. Suspects often do not do or do these things. The prosecutors supervising the preparatory proceedings learned about this with considerable delay. This often poses significant risks to the basic condition for the application of preventive measures, which is to safeguard the proper conduct of proceedings. Therefore, de lege ferenda - such work as is known to be ongoing - should be considered necessary to cover the system of electronic surveillance of free means of prevention. Such monitoring will ensure an immediate transmission, that e.g. The suspect shall not be placed under surveillance and, as a consequence, the reaction of the prosecutor supervising the proceedings, which will be able to consider, in order to safeguard its proper course, the detention and application of stricter measures, including provisional arrest. This amendment already takes into account the planned extension of the SDE to preventive measures. In summary, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, you can see from this project that unlike the State of the Civic Platform, which, surprisingly, this time has not taken care of its conflicting electorate, the current management of the Justice Department is interested in SDE, modernising it and increasing its technical and legal functionality. In view of the above, Kukiz15 will support the project in its proposed form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u71	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u72	What a laurel... Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Penal Code Act, contained in print no. 2290. Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns de facto two areas of operation of the electronic surveillance system. To the first extent presented by the government, the project aims to enable the Prison Service to carry out its tasks related to the execution of penalties in the electronic surveillance system. This project is inspired by the fact that the Prison Service is currently only carrying out the statutory tasks indicated directly in relation to the operation of the system monitoring centre. In contrast, in the draft, the government proposes to extend the competences of the Prison Service to other tasks, comprehensively defined in the article. 43t of the Executive Penal Code. This would be based on the statutory power of the Minister of Justice to delegate the tasks of the Prison Service to him optionally. Of course, and what is the consequence of such a project, the appointment by the Minister of Justice of the task of the body supervising the Prison Service would not take place under the Public Procurement Law. Of course, as the Minister mentioned during the presentation of this project, it is a consequence of a different vision of the electronic surveillance system, because so far some of these tasks are carried out by companies, but from how this project is to be understood and as presented by the Minister, it appears that the government is going to entrust all activities only to individuals who will be public entities, such as the Prison Service. I have neither the club nor the club has the belief that entrusting only state entities with the performance of state tasks is a matter of better implementation. On the contrary, not only from Polish experience, but also from many world cases, it is apparent that entrusting public tasks to private individuals, private companies contributed to the fact that these tasks were carried out in a better, more efficient way, he would say, more economically efficient, but of course the government and ministry have the right to carry out their vision. Here it is commendable that the State does not completely exclude this option by allowing private companies to carry out these tasks, leaving these records in such a way that it will be possible to change this situation in the future. The second part of the amendment is related to improving the functionality of mobile surveillance devices. Of course, the rules must meet, promote progress in the development of these devices, and we therefore recognise that the introduction of new solutions that respond to new technical aspects, as far as these devices are concerned, new opportunities are most appropriate. Of course, this must have consequences for describing the behaviour of those who are subject to monitoring. These regulations are also included in the project, and that's good. The proposal to amend the article deserves attention. 43a § 1 Executive Penal Code, extending the scope of application of technical supervision also to measures other than criminal measures and safeguards in the future. There is always such a danger here, Minister, that this can be used for a more specific purpose, which is why the Modern calls for this project to be directed to further work in committee, while during this work we will ask for a detailed explanation of what these forward-looking tasks may involve in order to also bear in mind the civil rights that must be respected under these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u73	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Prison Service Act is intended to enable this formation to carry out tasks related to the execution of penalties in the electronic surveillance system. The Prison Service is currently only carrying out statutory tasks, as designated by the Minister of Justice, which are limited to the operation of the SDE monitoring headquarters. According to the multi-annual practice of the electronic surveillance system, it is very limited in nature and therefore requires an extension of the competence of the Service. The prisoner also has the right to carry out other tasks which are inherently related to the execution of the sentence of imprisonment and the sentence of limitation of liberty in the electrical surveillance system. To date, these tasks have been comprehensively defined by the legislator in the Enforcement Penal Code, as evidenced by the provision of Article. 43t. It shall indicate the tasks to be carried out only by an authorised surveillance body. The bill submitted implies changing this situation through the statutory power of the Minister of Justice to entrust the performance of the tasks referred to in the above-mentioned provision of the Code of Criminal Enforcement, a uniformed formation, which is the Prison Service. As the Ministry of Justice argues, this is intended to ensure full consistency in the continuous and efficient execution of penalties imposed in the electronic surveillance system, even in situations of serious critical events, when an authorised supervisor, e.g. private, cessation of the execution of those penalties in the SDE. In such cases, the new legislation would allow the Prison Service to take over the existing tasks of the entity in an efficient and urgent manner. The drafters of the law provide that, in the event of a modification of the functioning of the electronic supervision system in the future, the proposed amendment of the provision of the article. 43a § 1 Executive Penal Code e.g. to extend the scope of SDE's application to preventive measures, the proposed regulation would allow flexible management of the system. The intended objective could be achieved without delay, as without the requirement of additional arrangements, annexation and agreement of new contractual provisions, these tasks would be taken over and implemented by the Prison Service. While the objective is understandable, the creation of an optional gateway, as far as these possibilities are concerned, makes the case not so obvious anymore. The Resort proposes to repeal and amend several provisions of the Prison Service Act and, at the same time, stresses the legitimacy of the power of the Minister of Justice to optionally entrust the performance of the tasks of the formation subordinate to him or supervised by him. The amendment also includes a revision of the provision related to improving the functionality of mobile surveillance devices. As the resort points out, so far convicted in the mobile door was equipped only with a GPS tracker, mounted to the end, which, due to its technical design, did not allow a telephone contact between the surveillance authorities and the convict. Therefore, the equipment of a portable recorder will enable it to make such contact, and will allow it to control the location of a real-time doomed stay, even if the power source in the GPS transmitter is exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the opinion of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, any change serving the welfare of the state or individuals deserves support, but the scope and objectives of this regulation should be very detailed, with the utmost caution, thoroughly analysed, after consulting both the Supreme Court and the General Data Protection Officer, so as to avoid errors that are often irreparable in an unusual hurry. It is also necessary to analyse and clarify the situation of the impact of the possible adoption of the project on economic activity, hence we are in favour of directing the draft law to further parliamentary work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u75	Thank you. Five ladies and gentlemen came to the question. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u76	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In accordance with the wording of the justification of the proposed law, when entrusting the tasks of the supervising entity without application of the Public Procurement Law to an organisational entity subordinate to or supervised by the Minister of Justice other than the Prison Service, such entity will fulfil the conditions for the award of an in-house contract. However, according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Law so-called. In-house contracts are contracts awarded in the form of a free-of-hand contract which does not exclude the application of the Public Procurement Law, but only provides for the possibility to negotiate with the sole contractor to award the contract. And the question, Minister: What, in this case, the authors of the proposed law provide for the reality of negotiations between the Minister of Justice and the undertaking under his authority or supervision in order to award the contract in question, in particular the principle of rational public spending? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u77	The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Revision of the article. 43n deals with improving the functionality of mobile surveillance devices. It is about the equipment of the sentenced person in the electronic surveillance system with a portable recorder. This will allow you to control the whereabouts of the doomed person in real time, even if the battery of the transmitter is exhausted. The project, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, has implications for the state budget. In view of the plans to use portable recorders in the future, I just wanted to ask you about them. How many doomsdays do we currently have in the electronic surveillance system, how many trackers we have in the system, how much is used and how much will be the cost of buying portable recorders? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u79	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is not directly apparent from the bill, but it appears from the Minister's statement that the whole system will be ultimately transferred to the Prison Service. I don't think that's the wrong thing to do. On the other hand, I have a question about this system, which has now been in operation, and companies that have had supervision of this whole system: Has there been any irregularities, or is this a more strategic and political decision to unfortunately eliminate private entities from this market? Were there any irregularities, and this was the reason why you decided that the whole system would be incorporated into the prison service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u81	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I believe that the liquidation of the arrests of investigators, which is currently taking place, among others. in Lubań Śląski, forces the taking of actions which will result in the execution of punishment in a different way than in the previous way. In connection with this project, I have two questions. First of all, does this bill mean, because I'm not sure that the Prison Service will be the only supervising officer in the SDE, or will mixed forms of punishment be possible? That's the first question. And the second question is: What expenditures are necessary for the Prison Service to start carrying out the new tasks introduced by this law, and have these funds been secured in the budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u83	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have two points to explain. The first concerns this - it is not hard to guess - whether and how their positions were presented and what these positions contained, companies that are currently operating this system. What losses will these companies be exposed to if all services are taken over by the Prison Service? This is the first issue. The second issue concerns the extension of the use of the system under today's conditions. I agree with the arguments that were presented during the debate that you could do this more efficiently than you have done so far. Therefore, which country Have you taken steps to make this system more efficient, or have any steps been taken at all? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u85	Thank you very much. High Seym! The gallery welcomes young people from the district of Rawski. Good morning. [[Applause]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Michał Wójcik, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u86	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Let me answer those questions that have arisen and also the doubts that you shared here. Thank you very much for joining the discussion. First, I will answer Mr Bańkowski. It is a question of entrusting without public procurement. Yes, because in the case I was talking about, i.e. if this road was chosen, that with regard to the supervision of the electronic surveillance system, but full, i.e. monitoring, the entire headquarters, the supervising entity will be the Prison Service, there is no public procurement law at all. It is simply that the Minister of Justice will recommend a subordinate service, in this case the Prison Service, the performance of these tasks and these tasks will be carried out, and no provision of the Public Procurement Act is involved here. The only exception would be a situation in which a private entity would be chosen, because such a gateway, of course, always remains because we are actually creating a mixed system, but we must give the public entity a chance to carry out these tasks as well. Mrs Płępek asked about the purchase costs and how many such devices are available. There are as many devices as there are in the system, today it's 5,000. The cost is PLN 331 per month, that is how much it costs to carry out this task under the SDE in relation to convicted persons, which is 10 times less than if such a person were staying in a penitentiary. Mr Meysztowicz asked if there were any irregularities in the functioning of this system. Yes, there were situations that actually forced us to reflect on whether this system is a system that will always work properly. Why? If this is entrusted to a company, for example, to a private company, to a private company, the company is always threatened with bankruptcy. For some reason, I don't want to go into the details here, maybe cancel the contract, but let's remember what the job is. In the background, we have supervision of people who have entered into a conflict with the law. Could there have been irregularities? Of course, they can always be in this situation. If the State is responsible for this, the situation is completely different. The state can't fall, as far as I know, so the situation is safer. Mrs Czernow asked if the budget was secured. Yes, part 37 has reserved funds for this task. I would also like to say to you that by the end of September 2018 there is a consortium, a private entity, which has been chosen to actually carry out this task, part of the whole system, that is the issue of these surveillance entities. We've secured the budget. Who oversees this system? Not only the Prison Service, they are also courts, judges, curators, here the pallet is wide, also prosecutors, so here of course are these fuses. Mr Suchoń asked if there would be losses in the case of companies and what steps we have taken to disseminate this system. That's a very good question. Of course, we have carried out training in this area, in terms of courts, judges, and we have also carried out media actions. But there is one thing that is important, ladies and gentlemen. According to the Act, there are certain conditions when this system can be applied. Let us remember that we are limited in some way, limited in the framework of this law. There's a category of entities that can apply for electronic surveillance, that's once. Two, someone, or convicted person, must agree to be such an electronic supervision. Three, the objectives of the penalty must be met, because this is a very important issue. Four, the technical conditions must be met, that is also one of the elements that is important. Not always, but sometimes there is no signal, this signal does not occur, so this is a problem, technical conditions are sometimes difficult to realize. Five, if he lives with householders, other persons, then it must be agreed, there must be a statement that they agree. Here is a very interesting thing, that in such a situation this is actually the best implemented system, because these people directly, you can say, supervise the performance of this electronic supervision. Isn't there going to be a loss to the companies? There will be no losses for companies. Once again, as regards the performance of this task under the signed agreement, it will be implemented by the end of September 2018. It's 170,000 a month. zł, this is the cost of the monthly implementation of this contract. If the decision is taken, of course, with regard to the execution of this task by the Prison Service, this task will be carried out - I understand that he meant that the commercial company would not then do so. I also wanted, Your Marshal, to return to the answers to the questions that had been raised here before, among others. Mr Honourable. This is a matter concerning an incident that took place in one of the prisons. I would like to tell you that there have been very far-reaching consequences to the director of this prison in Warsaw. He's just been disciplined off the force, and he's being prosecuted, so it's not like there was no response. The second is the matter of this medical facility in the Prison Service. Here I would like to thank Barbara Chrobak, because she has just pointed this out. She pointed out why this service has not been modernised in this regard over the years. Ladies and gentlemen, this good change is today implementing a programme of deep modernisation of the Prison Service, deep modernisation. This is a 4-year program and over PLN 2 billion. For the medical service - this is the security that Mr Szczerba referred to - has never been spent in history as much money as in recent times. Of course, we encounter various problems, among others. Except people don't want to work in medical care in prisons. It's normal, except for prisons, there's a similar problem, and we know it. Those of you who are doctors know that very well. What I'm trying to say is that a lot of money went into medical care in prisons. I also want to say that we're modernising objects... Just prison hospitals. There's never been such an upgrade. However, the fact is that the state of Polish prisons, prisoners, infrastructure is fatal. He's been neglected for decades. Here I bow low to Mr and Minister Patrick Jaki, who is indeed overseeing the Prison Service and who, under the supervision of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra, is making very profound changes that concern the Prison Service - very profound changes. This task has not been carried out for years. About the issues... I think that's it. Ah, what is important is the question that I think Mr Bankowski or Mr Suchon, I no longer remember exactly, I apologise very much, about the issue of preventive measures, namely the creation of a regulation for the future. That's an important question. The legislative technique is that it can be done - a recipe that is large enough not to change the recipe directly all the time, and... What is it? The idea is that this system could possibly be applied to other preventive measures, e.g. police custody, temporary arrest. After all, this system can also be used. Today the legislator is not working on this, but it does not prevent us from working in this area. We make it possible for this recipe to be as large as possible. And that's not wrong from the legislative side. This is, I think, everything. Of course, there is also the question of art. 209 Penal Code, which is non-alination crimes. I would like to say that in this respect, Today 10% persons, so-called non-alimenters, punishes within the electronic surveillance system. Just remember, I didn't mention one important condition when it comes to using electronic surveillance: imprisonment up to 1 year. This is important, this is the starting point, the formal element. 10% non-alimenters are currently punishing under these conditions. What can they do? They can work. It's not about that, and we've emphasized it very strongly by changing the article. 209 The Penal Code, which is where we have excluded the grounds of persistence in terms of not satisfying the basic needs of a legitimate person, the basic needs of life... Today is different: he does not pay three full periods, it may be subject to a certain penalty - 2 years imprisonment. We know that very well. As a rule, we changed the recipe, but we don't want these people in prison. The point is that they should work and be able to really satisfy these basic needs. On the other hand, they often defended themselves, saying that they have no job, no job, no job, and for example. We knew they were working. Today, with the use of SDE, it is possible to monitor this person at headquarters. We know exactly where this person is, of course, depending on what system was applied, what was written in the court's order. Today we will not be so easily fooled that someone has no job and there is simply no possibility of taking a wage to do so, for example. in relation to the entitled person. So that I would ask very cordially the High House for further work on this project. We will try to keep you fully informed of what is under each of the proposed provisions. It seems to me that today the safest thing for you as such is to adopt these new regulations. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Code Act, contained in print No 2290, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television (Prints No 1607 and 1928). I ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The solutions contained in print 1928, based on the Senate draft law amending the Radio and Television Act, touch a very important social problem and prove an attempt to reduce inequalities, remove barriers for people who, for reasons entirely independent of each other, cannot fully benefit from the wealth of everyday life. This project talks about solutions that deaf, blind or deaf people can make it possible to use the TV programme to the fullest extent, to observe it. This case has been known for years. The expectations of these environments are fully justified, correct. Let me remind you that at the moment the legal solution obliges television broadcasters to guarantee 10% time in the quarterly broadcast time, except, of course, advertising and teleshopping, in such a way that the people we are talking about can benefit from this program. Of course, 10%. it is something, but it is difficult to say whether it is the end of expectations or aspirations of this environment, which has the right to participate fully, just as people who hear well, see well, in cultural life, and TV in some sense is also a determinant of cultural life. This project - I will say right away as rapporteur for the committee - is probably not fully satisfied with those to whom it is addressed, on behalf of whom it was as if it had been examined here, because we know very well - all the members of the committee, and, I think, the majority of Members not only from this committee, receive emails and signals, and it is understandable that we would very much like the level of availability of the programme for these people to be much higher - that there are technical, organisational and financial obstacles. For let us not forget that it is not only about public broadcasters who, perhaps, should try to exceed these percentages themselves, but also about all broadcasters. So we tried, before in the Senate, and then our committee tried to middle it up so that we could see the intention that we really want to make this life as accessible as possible, but we also care about the reality of purely - as I say - technical and financial. The Commission has worked in close contact and in connection with the National Radio and Television Council and the Ministry of Culture, because in fact this law - I hope it will be adopted by the High House - sets out only a certain framework, and in fact its implementation will depend on the regulation presented by the National Radio and Television Council. That's what happened so far, and that's what's gonna happen in the future. The importance of this topic and the fact that we have tried - even though I say we have received a project from the Senate - as a committee to take this issue very seriously, at least the fact that a subcommittee has been set up. The subcommittee was sitting at four meetings and the committee itself at two meetings. Two of these four subcommittee meetings were devoted to hearing the views of all interested parties, both those for whom this law is intended and those who are to apply it in the future. This, of course, was still not enough, but as I say, we have considered that this is the end of the possibility in the next five years, although it may not be appropriate to start the report from the end - I would like to draw attention to the article. 4, which introduced the committee, is a solution which was not at all included in the Senate project, which states that in 2025 the President of the National Radio and Television Council will present to the Sejm, the Senate and the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection information on the fulfilment of the obligations set out in this project, as well as the possibility of increasing the level of facilities in television programmes. I think it's the art. 4, although it can be said that it is in some sense declarative, shows that the level of 50% participation of programmes with all kinds of facilities outlined in the bill is not a limit level. We are well aware that by drawing this level 50% We're, like, halfway there. Within these 5 years of today's 10% we are going to reach 50%, but it is not said, it is difficult at the moment to predict what the development of transmission and transmission technology will be. With the development of technology, it will be possible to significantly increase this level. And now I'm going - without this philosophy - to specific solutions. Here's what I'm gonna say: 1 in Amendment 1. amenities for disabled persons are defined, i.e. It's how it's supposed to be, what it's supposed to be. So these are sound or graphic elements that give you the opportunity to read the broadcast, especially in the form of subtitles for deaf or audiodescription, as well as translations into sign language. The second amendment in this Article - point 2 - sets the upper limit for this 50% quarterly broadcast time, excluding advertising and teleshopping, in the perspective we are able to anticipate. Not only are broadcasters supposed to introduce this, but they are also obliged to inform the public about the date, time of issue, duration of the programme containing facilities for disabled people. This is very important, because in the discussions we had with the representatives of these environments, there was the fact that even when they are informed, there is still a problem whether they are properly informed about these programmes. Secondly, the Regulation has been clarified and de facto is leading. As I say, this national council, according to certain legislative powers, will have to draw up this regulation. We were talking, members of the subcommittee, with national advice on such exemplary models of this type of regulation, so it certainly included all the elements that are needed. For my part, I can only say that for me the proper work on the implementation of this law will begin at the stage of consultation, some kind of negotiation of environments of deaf, blind, deaf, visually impaired with national advice, because it is a problem, how much. As you know, some forms are cheaper for the sender, others are more expensive, in the direct transmission of certain forms is easier, about other forms is more difficult, and as I say, these forms are either audiodescription, or sign language, or subtitles. Art. 2 - here in relation to the solutions proposed by the Senate we had to make some changes, because it shifted over time... We started working on this law at the end of 2017, we finished in February 2018, so it is understandable that these solutions could not be implemented in any way since 2018. We had to change the calendar. It is changed, but it is also written for years. And so next year - at least 15% , this first year will be the year of smooth transition to this level, between 2020 and 2021 - at least 25%, between 2022 and 2023 - at least 35%, and in 2024 - at least 50% of the quarterly transmission time must contain these facilities. Art. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4 is the work of the Commission itself and the Legislative This change in the calendar made it necessary for us to rethink when individual laws enter into force and when they lose power. Here both art. 3, as well as Art. 5, which speaks of when the law enters into force, disciplines national council. That was our intention not to spread it forever, so that it would not be known when it would finally happen. Certain provisions expire on 31 March 2019 and the Act itself enters into force 14 days from the date of its publication, of course those provisions of the Regulation, which are subject to penalties for broadcasters, may enter into force only on 1 January 2019. This gives the national council the opportunity to join the study work and negotiate earlier, to prepare these regulations, so that then, on 1 January, it all surprises. The broadcasters, especially the commercial ones, and the public at the moment, have some financial and programme plans, so they have to prepare for it - so they also have enough time to prepare themselves. So much for the project itself. He apparently doesn't look very impressive, but I think he's a project worth leaning over in such detail. I wanted to take this opportunity to thank all those who supported both the subcommittee and the committee in looking for these best, most precise solutions. There's one thing left on our conscience. In fact, the environment of these people did not really want to accept the definition that these are some facilities for them, because this is something normal. That is true, but I can honestly say that we have fallen here, and we have not been able to replace this word with anything else that is as precise from a legal and legislative point of view. So that, thanking all those who contributed to this project, I hope that the High House will accept this project as well as the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u89	Thank you very much, Member. I wanted to give a very warm welcome to the group from the Wieliczki district, who is listening to our deliberations. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek World, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. High Izbo! The measure of the development of civilization of the state is among others. the attitude towards the disabled. Access to information and media is part of the integration of disabled people into society. This applies especially to people with visual impairment, hearing impairment. The first one is about 300,000 in Poland, the second one - about 100,000, so not a small group, and for them television is an important source of information. As we heard today, the bill says 10%. programs with amenities for disabled people. Fortunately, the reality is much better. For example, according to public television information in the first programme already around 50% emissions are emissions with amenities, in the second programme - about 30%, and on TVP Seriale - up to 80%. On commercial television, it is also a percentage much higher than the statutory 10%. Of course, we are quite far from the most developed countries, which, first of all, are richer, and secondly, years ago they started to work intensively on facilities for people with disabilities. Indeed, we can feel certain complexes even toward British, Dutch, Scandinavian television. In the main BBC programme, this emissions with amenities exceed 90%. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is a clash of petitions that went to the Sejm on the petition committee. There has been a very interesting discussion in both the petition committee and, on behalf of the petition committee, in the Committee on Culture and Media. These discussions have shown that the matter is so complicated that the Parliament's petition committee is not able to meet this task technically, organisationally, in substance. Luckily, on the basis of a one-sounding petition with a legislative initiative, the Senate decided to present itself. The project was very widely consulted by various environments, discussed in the committee, in an emergency subcommittee. The effects of this have been presented by the President, and I will no longer go back to the details that have been presented to you and your fellow Members. I just want to point out in particular that these solutions are very expensive: the hour of issue with subtitles can vary within limits, I don't know, it could be 500 PLN, the issue with a sign language translator - up to 2 000. zł, in the case of audiodescription it is similar, maybe even more. These are annual multimillion-dollar costs per band. And that, I think, is the basic barrier that made this project not entirely satisfactory for all of us. We are aware that this project is a compromise between the expectations of disabled people's environments and the financial, technical, personal and organisational capacities of broadcasters. This is, however, a compromise that we accept with the hope that this progress will be much faster than that envisaged in the Act, that the 50% We get not in six years, but maybe four or five years. I am especially counting on technological development, technical development, which thanks to new devices [[♪ The bell ♪]] allow this percentage of facilities to increase. My club, of course. will support the envisaged solutions with a very deep hope that this is not our last word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u91	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of the motion for a petition addressed to the Senate was the basis for any action being taken in this direction, so that for people with disabilities, this is mainly about disability as regards the scope of vision and hearing, improving the availability of television programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious problem and with this problem people with disabilities have already addressed Members, Members' Offices, Senators' Offices on numerous occasions. We had to take some action to make real cultural goods available to these people, as the Chair of the subcommittee, Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska, has already said, to a greater extent than has been the case so far, because so far, as you know very well, it was only 10%. which was required, 10%. At the moment, we have decided that these facilities will ultimately take place at least 50%. , but at least does not mean that it is the upper limit. The media, of course, can - depending on the financial possibilities, depending on how much they will feel involved in solving this problem, and I think this is a problem where the solution is already involving more and more people - to increase the scope of these facilities for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, these transitional moments, i.e. 2019.15% , 2020 and 2021.25%, I repeat to remember this well, 2022 and 2023.35% and by 2024 50% This is the beginning, this isn't the end. I say this especially to those who are disabled and who addressed us in e-mails, in writings, about the fact that this is not sufficient convenience. Of course, this will be reviewed by the President of the National Radio and Television Council, who is to report to the senators, Members and Ministry in 2025 on how this law is implemented by the media. Then we'll probably decide to increase these facilities. Perhaps these facilities at the time... Because it is 5 years, and in these postulates, with which the environments of people with disabilities addressed us, it was most often said about it - at least I received such information - that you wish that within 10 years there would be practically 100 percent access to cultural objects transmitted by means of mass media, television. I think it's possible to achieve this, and it might even happen sooner. Maybe that's what's going to happen because of the technical possibilities, so let's hope so. We are certainly determined here, as we have worked in consensus in the subcommittee, where, in fact, all representatives of the subcommittee, regardless of their backgrounds, were determined to give such facilities to people with disabilities. Therefore, full of good hope that perhaps even faster than this year, 2024 will be able to achieve this level of 50% On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I want to declare that our club will of course support this project and we will vote for it because we think it is extremely necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u93	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Club15. There is no Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, what can be added here after my colleague's statement? We all agree that this project should have been created before, that it should have already happened, and that none of the people, especially deaf, hearing weak, blind, should be discriminated against. We are talking about 4 million people being discriminated against, and we should do everything to ensure that not only this law enters into force as soon as possible, even assuming that these changes will continue over the next few years. Nevertheless, we should do so to speed up this work because we are dealing with such a large number of citizens. We as a modern club will of course vote in favour of this project, but also as a modern club we will demand that, however, we speed up work on the implementation of the availability of television faster than we now assume. In fact, I can promise our help on the work here, and I hope that there will be such will from all of us that, despite what we will determine now, what will happen, what people deaf and deaf and hearing-deaf will wait for, but this work has lasted faster and that we will bring to full television availability for the same people as us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u95	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u96	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the applicants, but also the president of the subcommittee, for preparing and implementing this bill, because it is, of course, a very expected law, very much needed, very important. The Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats will support the bill to amend the Act on Radiophony and Television. The process, which aims to increase the access of people with visual and hearing disabilities to public television programmes and commercial stations, will take place in an evolutionary manner. Here, actually, the project that was submitted, and the project that came out of the committee in some sense, I mean, of course, it's not identical, it's been discussed... At the request of the club bureau I would like to repeat my amendments to this issue so that this evolutionary process and the final percentage increase by 2024 to at least 90% of the quarterly broadcast time. Today we are - with a disgusting taste - in the tail of Europe when it comes to legislation. Today, the rules require broadcasters to adapt to the needs of people with disabilities only 10% offers. In Polish television, 18.5% is broadcast in this way. programmes where the European average is around 60%. What's more, it's mostly series and reruns of entertainment programs. However, people with disabilities have signals that they are much more interested in information programs, news, and journals. Again, our club, of course. supports the requests set out in the Act. They are in line with the provisions of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Polish Constitution. Those with limitations such as eye diseases or hearing disorders are citizens of the same nature and have the same responsibilities, not only as well as rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u97	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate bill amending the Act on Radio and Television. Today's amendment aims to address the problem of non-accessibility of television programmes for people with disabilities. The introduction of this change will help to minimise barriers to access to the media and, what is important, will prevent the digital exclusion of people with disabilities. The amendment aims to oblige broadcasters to provide access to programmes for people with visual impairment and hearing impairment. Since 2024 at least 50% of the quarterly transmission time is to be provided with facilities for the reception of disabled persons. It must be said here that today's project is the implementation of a petition that was sent to the Senate. I am pleased that the ordinary citizens' petition has not been overlooked and has become a legislative initiative. I believe that the changes discussed today are well-founded and necessary. Currently, programmes with amenities cover only 10% antenna time. This excludes the full access of people with disabilities to information and participation in socio-political life. The process of increasing the number of broadcast programmes with facilities must be carried out as soon as possible. We cannot hide behind the technical or financial problems of adapting television stations to broadcast such programs. How long do deaf, deaf, or blind people have to wait? We should all stand in their place today without exception. We have full access to everything around us. Why, then, do people with disabilities not receive what they really deserve? For them, it is an opportunity for fuller participation in society, for development. The revised Act is to enter into force from 1 January 2019 and systematically from this year access to facilities is to be extended until 2024, when at least 50% of the antenna time will have facilities for people with visual organ dysfunction and hearing impairment. It's too long to make only half the broadcasts have such facilities. In a petition addressed to the Senate, 100% was requested. the quarterly broadcast time had such facilities. I believe that full availability of programmes with facilities should be guaranteed in a shorter period of time. However, I understand the limitations, and that is why I hope that the entry into force of the adopted solutions will be an impetus for further change. We must do everything possible to ensure that people with disabilities in Poland live well so that our country is friendly to all of us. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u99	Thank you very much, Member. Four people signed up for the questions. Do any of you ladies and gentlemen want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mrs Margaret Płępek will be the first to speak. [[One and a half minutes.]] One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am delighted that we are meeting the expectations of many people and that the entry into force of the amended law, in line with what was voted on during the committee's work, will be accelerated. On the other hand, it is a pity that this project has been under investigation for almost a year. There are currently around 4 million people interested in such changes indicating social exclusion, discrimination and violations of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I believe your marshal has already received a petition on this matter. In the new version of the amended act we have an obligation to inform about the date, duration and duration of the broadcasts, which are accessible to the disabled. And that's also a very good and important change. I wanted to ask if it would be guaranteed for deaf, deaf and blind people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] availability of high-visibility programs, live subtitles in news and publishing programs. It's a good bill that should be implemented much faster. Can't you cut back on that time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u101	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Halina Szydłoko, the Parliamentary Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project that's talking about 50% is definitely a compromise. The expectations of the environment of people with disabilities are much greater and certainly right. And that's why it's good to ensure that work on this doesn't stop and we're going to try to increase this time to 100%. My question concerns these 50% Which we now have guaranteed in the bill. Are those 50% will the percentage share of individual information, publicity or film programmes to be covered by these facilities for people with disabilities be foreseen? And will the implementing rules, because I understand that it should be there, provide for such a division? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u103	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is the language of this novel. The main point is to say that this is a convenience, while it is possible to talk about accessibility, to increase access to the use of cultural goods. If we're only dealing with this bill, the situation looks good, because within a year there will be an improvement, in two years even bigger. However, let us consider the fact that especially deaf people, deaf people, are eliminated from social life by e.g. not providing them with sound processors. I recently prepared such an interpellation about the fact that when a person who has a hearing aid, the sound processor is exhausted, it waits for him a year, two years, three years, quits his job, etc., etc. I'm not going to develop this thread. On the other hand, in the context of this law, we are not just talking about [[♪ The bell ♪]] the use of cultural goods, but also the participation of hearing impaired people in society. So even if we can't provide it to the extent we want, at least let's not use discriminatory language, offensive language often for these people. They want to talk about it as not a convenience, but it's more access to the use of cultural goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u105	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft Act on increasing accessibility to 50% by 2024 will undoubtedly improve the situation of people with disabilities with visual and hearing impairment, but you must remember this, and this is very important, because in emails addressed to Members it is very clear that the expectation is much greater, and it is not surprising: that people with disabilities should have full access. I would therefore like to ask what is the issue of accessibility in other countries of the European Union, what is Poland's place in relation to this access and when we can reach the expected threshold, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. 100% availability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Paweł Lewandowski, will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! To answer the question about how it is now in Europe, I will say that in Europe it is essentially similar to what is in the compromise that is now proposed by the Senate, which is about 50%. Of course, there are countries where it is larger, but it can be assumed that 50% is such a European standard, and we are currently striving for this standard. As a government, we are in principle in favour of the project which was submitted by the Senate, because this project also took into account all the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. It is worth noting that the Ministry also prepared such a project within the framework of the so-called. a large cleaning bill, a law on radio and television, but since this initiative was taken earlier by the Senate, we only asked to take into account the comments that were included in our government project. As far as questions are concerned, I think I've answered them all, yes. That is to ask about the percentage in other countries and the possibility of why 50%. 50% is a compromise, we consider this compromise binding for now, because it does not impose too much burden on broadcasters and, on the other hand, it is a big step forward. I therefore agree with the assumptions that are in the current project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Catarasinska, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start with this amendment, which is pretty much what I call it here, brave. As chairman of the subcommittee and at the moment leading this law on the part of the committee, I can only express my dissatisfaction that this amendment did not appear in the course of its work. In theory, the Member presenting the amendment was a member of the subcommittee. That amendment didn't show up. We were supposed to... There were both representatives of the disabled environment and broadcasters, there was a national council, there was a ministry. We were trying to balance these interests and this compromise, to which the committee, in agreement, because there was no amendment at the time, came, was the accident of those opinions that we had obtained. Of course, I do not have the authority to do so, and since there has been such an important amendment, we will convene a committee meeting to consider this amendment. I don't know if it's gonna delay the vote on this bill, but let's just say we're gonna make it, and we're gonna do it again. I just want to say that with these Western solutions - because I'm not talking about aspirations and intentions, we all know them perfectly, we all got the same emails, exactly the same ones, but we just reacted to them, as you can see, in different ways - it is so that very often these are the result of so-called. self-regulation, which within the European Union is a very commonly used form of investigation into certain agreements and consensus. In fact, we were also called upon by the broadcasters to leave it in the self-regulation category, because of course the broadcasters are responsible and realized, but we chose a different way. So the amendment, as I repeat, will be considered. We will see how the whole committee will deal with it, how the national council, which has also had experience with the implementation of this current legal situation, will respond. We're gonna have to face it. If it worked out, I-I can only say-- personally I'd be completely happy, but right now we have 10%. And next year it's gonna be 30%. Technically, I'm not imagining it very well. On the other hand, there was also a very detailed question as to whether it would be known how many news and publicity programmes would be available. The truth is, like I said, the bill is a framework. Everything will be in the regulation, but in the dispositions we have given to the national council, it is advisable that this regulation will refer to the types of facilities depending on the time of issue, the nature and type of the programme. Of course, this will have to be fairly detailed, but the role of the recipients of these programmes has not ended - they now have to start negotiations or consult with the national council and it will depend a little on these discussions. The last issue raised by Mrs Fabisiak. I was talking about it, we were perfectly aware that the amenities are such a word that... What's the convenience? Someone can just watch the show, that's all. However, there were efforts from the national council, experts, experts from the national council, who tried to eliminate this word. I'll admit that I've been busy writing down two pages of the manuscript myself, trying to change that definition, but my attempt - both - has bounced back, has encountered legal and legislative resistance. It is not possible to use descriptive or publishing in the legal language, and replacing the word with the word "accessibility" simply does not work in every case, because in order to guarantee availability, you need... Question: What? The word "amenities" has been found and so far it is functioning. Thank you, of course, for your attention and for your comments. At the next meeting convened by the chairman of the committee, we will examine them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u111	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 5 on the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act (prints 1996 and 2242). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act, the 1996 Sejm printing. Marshal of the Sejm at the 58th meeting of the Sejm on 6 February 2018 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. Let me remind you that this bill is a committee project, a draft of the Committee on Petitions. It concerns the amendment of two provisions of the Code of Offences. The first provision is Article. 130 § 1 of the Code of Offences, which so far contains a standard excluding the application of four provisions: Article. 119, which constitutes the theft, the misappropriation of other people's things, if its value does not exceed 1/4 of the minimum wage; Article. 120 The Code of Offences, which concerns the logging of trees in the woods, the theft and misappropriation of trees cut or knocked down, even if the value of that tree does not exceed 1/4 of the minimum wage; Article. 122 The Code of Offences, which deals with intentional and involuntary fences - including the theft of other people's things - and art. 124 concerning destruction, damage or non-useable property of a value not exceeding 1/4 of the lowest remuneration. The record so far was that in this article. 130 § 1 of the electoral code was also included in the article. 120, which concerns the theft of a tree from the forest or the possession of that tree, and Art. 130 referred to the exclusion of these cases if the subject matter of the act is weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives, because then it is not a misdemeanor, it is only a crime. It is therefore appropriate to exclude from this provision Article. 120 offences, which, as I said, concerns theft of a tree. The second amended provision is Article. 147a § 1 Code of Offences. Its previous wording was: "Who runs a health care establishment or an animal health establishment without the required entry in the register or records, is punishable by imprisonment, restrictions on freedom or fines.' The term "health care establishment' has been eliminated from legal trading by the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities, as a new concept of a medicinal entity has been introduced. In the original sejm printing, in this commission project included in the printing no. 1996 there was this provision: At the meeting of the Committee on Justice on 1 March 2018, this provision was amended to read as follows: The article was retained. 2 of this project, i.e. the minimum date of entry into force of the Act 14 days after the announcement. High Seym! I request that this draft be adopted on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for changes in codification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice continues to support this project. A revision of the Code of Misdemeanors is necessary here. There is no controversy about this amendment. This is a change, a cleaning amendment, which really eliminates the contradictions that arise from the rules. In the first case, this is a manifest irregularity, and in the second case it is an obsolete provision due to the amendment of other substantive provisions. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed changes, following the corrections made by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club, as at first reading, also supports the project after work on the committee. As has already been said here, it is not controversial, it is clean, it eliminates rules that do not comply with the principles of correct legislation, and the amendments introduced during the committee's work are well founded and the Civic Platform will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u117	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15. There is no Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. In writing. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. There isn't either. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish legal system is full of gaps and even absurdities. This needs to be cleaned systematically, and we parliamentarians should take such action. Procededed regulations allow wood to be classified as weapons, ammunition and explosives. I will not dwell on this further, although I do not hide the fact that it would be interesting to know the authors of this standard. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Club Kukiz'15 supports the project in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u119	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the club's position on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences, 1996 and 2242. The purpose of the proposed proposal is to amend two provisions of the Code of Offences which, as it stands, do not comply with the principle of correct legislation set out in Article. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 120 The Code of Offences is to be terminated by excluding the application of the law on forest theft if the subject matter of the act is weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives. In such a situation, the perpetrator would commit a crime. Since under no circumstances can the trees concerned be classified as weapons, ammunition or explosives, it is clear that the exemption is illogical and defective. The draft submitted, without having any legal effect, also amends the Article. 147a § 1, which used the "health care establishment" that was eliminated from Polish legislation. Two concepts are introduced in its place: the conduct of a medicinal entity and the pursuit of a therapeutic activity. These changes are a manifestation of the natural and desirable process of improving and improving the Polish legal system. It is a pity, however, that they are the result of the work of the committee and not the government of the PiS, which is an obligation. Of course, the Modern Posel Club will support the proposed project and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Code of Offences, 1996 and 2242. The aim of the proposed amendment is to amend two provisions of the Code of Offences which, as it stands, do not comply with the principles of correct legislation. Art. 130 § 1 of the Code of Offence excludes the application of a provision on the theft, the theft of forest, theft and destruction of property where the object of the act is weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives. In that case, the perpetrator commits a crime. The reference in this provision to the article. 120 should be considered defective. This provision applies to trees growing in the woods, whether cut out or knocked down. Trees cannot be classified as weapons, ammunition, material or explosive. This draft also amends the wording of the Article. 147a § 1 Code of Offences: Who runs a health care establishment or an animal health establishment without the required entry in the register or records, shall be subject to detention, restriction of liberty or fine. For years, this provision has been obsolete and has no legal effect since the term "health care establishment" has been eliminated from legal trading after the entry into force of the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities, OJ No. U. z 2016 poz. 1638, late. zm. Instead of using a term that no longer exists in the legal trade, the developers of the project introduce two concepts: the conduct of a medicinal entity and the pursuit of a therapeutic activity. Both activities entered without the required registration or registration will be punishable by detention, restriction of liberty or fine, as in the original provision concerning the running of a medicinal plant without the required registration or registration. High Izbo! The proposed draft sets out non-precise and outdated provisions of the Code of Offences. Its implementation will help to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u121	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 to 10 p.m. 14 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on public collective transport (prints 2286 and 2314). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Public Collective Transport. I would like to inform the High House that the Committee on Infrastructure, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 6 March 2018, asks the Sejm to adopt the draft law without amendments. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the bill concerns public collective transport. It aims to ensure compliance of national legislation with European Union law by aligning the provisions of the Public Transport Act with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending the European Community Regulation as regards the opening up of the market for national passenger transport services by rail. In its provisions, the proposed law contains not only amendments enabling the application of the European Community Regulation but also amending the European Union Regulation. It introduces modifications not related to the need to bring national law into line with European Union legislation. This Act also contains provisions on the operation of Regional Transports in terms of the state aid granted to Regional Transports. We also have certain situations here related to the way rail transport will be concluded in the future in a non-trade-free mode with certain derogations. On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, I submit a request for the adoption of the proposed law, print No 2314. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u123	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the law on public collective transport, print no. 2286 and 2314. The proposed law contains amendments not only to allow national legislation to comply with European Union law, but also to introduce other modifications not related to the need to comply with EU rules. In addition, it should be pointed out that some of the proposed regulations contained in the proposed law aim to fulfil the obligations imposed by the European Commission, inter alia. in connection with the ongoing public notification process granted to Regional Transport in 2015 for restructuring. The proposed law introduces a supplement in Article. 22 as regards the rules for direct conclusion of contracts, adds a new Article. 22b granting the organiser the right to enter into negotiations with an entity which has only expressed an interest in participating in the tendering procedure without the need to re-publicise the tender notice and complements it in Article. 49 Act by broadening the scope of information provided by public transport organisers to the regional marshal, who is obliged to prepare summary information concerning public collective transport by bus and rail transport, and to impose reporting obligations additionally on district and commune unions, metropolitan unions and marshals of voivodships. In addition, the draft law contains, among others, enable the conclusion of a public service contract for rail passenger services between voivodships and international services when entrusted to the same operator. As a result of the comments submitted during the inter-ministerial consultation, the projector decided that the passenger transport provisions between stations located in neighbouring voivodships had been removed from the currently proposed law. This very important issue will be addressed in another project, which will develop clear solutions to the problem of contacts. In conclusion, in the proposed act on public collective transport, the proposed solutions do not have any financial implications for the state budget and the budget of local government units. The draft law is compatible with EU law and the solutions contained in the proposal will not affect the activities of micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. The Law and Justice Club fully supports and will vote in favour of the draft law on public collective transport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u125	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position regarding the government draft law amending the law on public collective transport contained in Seym printing no. 2286. The amendment to the Public Collective Transport Act aims to ensure compliance of national legislation with European Union law. It is precisely the European Union Regulation of 2016 No 2338 which is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States and which entered into force on 24 December 2017. The explanatory memorandum calls for the draft law to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. This is obviously an incomprehensible haste, because on 20 October 2016 in this Chamber we talked about a draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and then there were some problems that we would face in the context of the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. We all know how it was treated. We discussed the 4th railway package. Now, by amending the law, a very short deadline for entry into force is being introduced. This is probably aimed at adapting to the rest of Europe, where the regulation is already in place. Question: "Why so quickly?" The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the proposed amendments, but the law needs to be refined and we therefore propose an amendment to the article. 19, i.e. the addition of a paragraph. 1a after mouth. 1. These are, it may be said, guidelines for the Minister who, by means of a regulation, will define the minimum information published in the specifications of the essential terms of the contract or concession documents relating to the minimum period between the notice of intention to award a public contract and the start of the service and the minimum period between the conclusion of the service contract and the start of the service, the conditions for access to rolling stock necessary for the performance of the service, the market data on which the service is to be provided, including revenues and the requirements for tariff and ticket systems, the obligations on social guarantees and the rules on admission of workers, taking into account the need to ensure transparency of the procedure for selecting the operator and to safeguard the relevant conditions for the performance of the public transport service contract. Allow me to hand over the contents of this amendment to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the law on public collective transport, contained in print no. 2286. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law aims to amend the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport. The project includes e.g. legal provisions that ensure compliance of national legislation with European Union law by aligning the provisions of the law I mentioned with the provisions of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 as regards the opening up of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail. In addition, the Act introduces other modifications, e.g. not related to the need to bring our law into line with European Union legislation. These results, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, mainly from past experience in the implementation and application of the provisions of this law and are justified by the amendment of the Railway Transport Act. In addition, the government has included in its submission regulations aimed at fulfilling the obligations imposed by the European Commission in connection with the ongoing notification process of State aid granted to Regional Transport Sp. z o.o. in 2015 for restructuring. Proposals on the rules for direct conclusion of contracts are worth noting in this law. These proposals better regulate this area. In addition, it is added a new Article. 22b, in which the organiser is granted the right to enter into negotiations with an entity which has only expressed an interest in participating in the tendering procedure in such a way that this will be possible without the need to re-published the notice. Of course, this is justified, and in the situation referred to in the legislation, when there is no other reasonable alternative, such a regulation will result in no additional complications, no additional, I would say, administrative procedures which only prolong the process in such a situation and do not lead to any change. The project assumes an obligation on the organiser to provide interested parties with information relevant for the preparation of the offer. This obviously means that railway infrastructure managers will be obliged to assist the organiser in obtaining all relevant data on the infrastructure specifications. This is the way out to meet the expectations of the business sector. A wider range of information will encourage better matching of the offer. In the draft law we also find provisions extending the scope of information provided by organizers of public transport to the regional marshals, which is important precisely from the point of view of objectives, I would say, informational, resulting in better management. In addition, the Act also contains proposals for opening the Polish railway market for voivodship transport, which are intended to reduce distortions of competition due to the obligation to notify the Commission, which I mentioned earlier. The Act introduces new rules which will allow the Minister responsible for transport as the organiser of inter-voivodship and international transport to conclude a single contract for the provision of public transport services. Of course, the legislative proposals I have just quoted are only part of the proposals that have been included in the draft law. On behalf of the club, I do not submit additional requests and request that the next stage of the project be moved forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u129	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Our parliamentary club will support the proposed government project in the course of further work, because we believe that this is another step in order to bring our legislation into line with the requirements of European Union legislation. In this case, it is Regulation No 2338 of 2016, which concerns rail passenger transport services. My previous speakers were talking about important sequences, important records. We see that this is also an indication and clarification of certain rules relating to the conclusion of direct agreements on rail transport. There are also paragraphs indicating that the Marshals of voivodships or local governments of voivodships will obtain more information through the Public Information Bulletin of the Minister of Infrastructure, which will allow to conclude good contracts or provide further information to entities. The project also addresses the European Commission's notification of public aid to Regional Transport. A border date to which contracts may apply is also referred to the possibility of drawing up or concluding a single contract for passenger services. We therefore believe that the government project covers a significant area and is a rational project, so we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his statement in writing. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the law on public collective transport. The purpose of this Act is to bring Polish law into line with European Union law. In particular, it is the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016. The need for changes concerns inter alia. the conclusion of contracts. Art. Point 22 (3) 1 The Public Collective Transport Act regulates how rail transport contracts should be concluded. For contracts concluded between 3 December 2019 and 24 December 2023, the duration of the contract shall not exceed 10 years, but for contracts concluded directly between 24 December 2017 and 2 December 2019 shall not exceed 10 years, except where Article is applicable. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. After 24 December 2023, direct procurement will only be possible in a few cases that have been specified in the project. In addition, a new article was added to the Public Collective Transport Act. 22b. Thus, the tenderer was given the opportunity to enter into negotiations with an entity which had only expressed an interest in participating in the tender procedure without having to re-publicise the announcement of its intention to conduct the tendering procedure, under the following conditions: firstly, it proved that it was able to provide a transport service in accordance with the obligations laid down in the contract for the provision of public collective transport services, secondly, the absence of competition is not the result of artificially narrowing down the parameters of the contract, thirdly, there is no other reasonable alternative. The new regulations will also oblige the tender organiser to provide interested parties with information relevant for the preparation of the offer, including information on infrastructure specifications. According to this regulation, the railway infrastructure manager will be required to assist the organiser in obtaining all relevant data on the infrastructure specifications. The proposed law also contains the provisions of Article. 2 (2) 1 and 2 to open up the Polish rail market for voivodship services, which are intended to reduce distortions of competition due to notification of public aid to the European Commission for restructuring granted to the company Przewoży Regionalne sp. z o.o. According to the new article. 22a Act on public collective transport and in conjunction with Article. 2 (2) 2 of the proposed law after 12 December 2020 for voivodship passenger services, certain exemptions from the general principle of competitive award will not apply. This means that direct contracts for voivodship passenger transport will only be possible in a few cases. This Law should enter into force as soon as possible due to Regulation (EU) 2016/2338, which is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States and which entered into force on 24 December 2017. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u133	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. We're waiting for the Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're the minister.]] No, this point is now closed, so thank you to the Minister. There were no questions to ask, so thank you. And we're waiting for the minister assigned to the next point. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 25 hours 14 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the management of a successful enterprise of a natural person (print No 2293). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mariusz Haladyj to present the justification for the project. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present to you a draft law which is important for thousands of Polish family companies, and which is the result of inspiration from these family companies - i.e. the project was created from the inspiration of family companies - the draft law on the management of a successful natural person company. The project provides, above all, the possibility of continuing the so-called. one-person business activity, i.e. activities carried out on the basis of an entry into the CEIDG, after the death of the trader. In this form, economic activity, which is important as if to realise the scale of the problem, leads today the majority of Polish entrepreneurs to decide. There are about 2 million of them, most of which are family businesses. And what is also interesting, but also important from the point of view of the need for this regulation, this form of activity still selects about 80%. start-ups also today. Entrepreneurs entered into CEIDG, because this is also information showing the scale of the phenomenon, they often have multimillion turnovers today and create jobs for dozens and sometimes even, which can sometimes be surprising, several hundred employees. I think that this is the specificity of our economy, that in this legal form entrepreneurs are doing their business, which in turn affects that we have had very limited opportunities here to benefit from the regulatory experience of other countries. The company is run by one person today - and this is the problem we are responding to - inextricably related to its owner. The death of the entrepreneur also causes the legal existence of the company to end, and we know that sometimes they are companies built for years, often the work of not only the entrepreneur, but also his family, his coworkers, means, in so colloquially speaking, the company dies today with its owner. And this is because property is inherited, understood as actually a set of property components of the company, while many functionalities, which are crucial for the company from the point of view of entitlement, from the point of view of its operation, expire. In practice, the death of an entrepreneur means that many commercial contracts cannot be executed, the result of which is also the termination of employment contracts, the use of a dead trader's NIP, which is also, of course, equivalent to the fact that there is no liquidity of tax settlements, administrative decisions such as concessions, licences, permits, which is often necessary for the operation of the company, and there is no access to the bank account for the company. The practice of trading shows that until the completion of the formalities of succession, which often lasted for months and sometimes even over the years, legal successors have difficulty in the day-to-day management of the company. This also applies to such measures as are necessary to preserve the company's market position. It goes on here, for example. about the sale of goods, the provision of services, the retention of employees, key contractors or customers in the company. In the case of many entrepreneurs, it is no longer possible to resume business after such a break, as I said, for several months or even a few years, due to the need to regulate successions. There is no real return to the market for such a company. On the other hand, this is also an important issue from a social point of view because in the coming years this issue of succession will concern an increasingly large group of entrepreneurs. Because people who started their companies during the period of economic transformation, the system, today are approaching the age of maturity or they have already reached that age. We checked with CEIDG that today we have 212,000. entrepreneurs who were 65 years of age, and over the last year this figure has increased by as much as 15 thousand. What seems to make the whole situation a little more difficult is that we do not have these experiences, is that the current generation that is taking over or running family businesses is basically the first generation in the reality of the economy, which is in the transition period, this time companies, not the transformation of the system, but the transformation of companies, when one generation is slowly leaving and in its place should enter into... It's about the succession. I think it is important and worth noting that the work on this project started at the initiative of family businesses, and it was their signaling that the Ministry took this issue into account. The important thing for us during the legislative process was that the activity of companies allowed us to approach certain practical problems just in consultation with them, when we were considering some practical, numerous dilemmas, because this is a difficult bill. During the work on this project, the family business environment has always been ready and willing to share its experience with us, as well as advise us on specific legislative decisions. This is also important from an economic point of view, because so far I have talked rather about this aspect, I would say microeconomic, concerning individual companies. But from a global perspective, family businesses account for about 35% of Polish entrepreneurs today, producing around 10% GDP, and in the business sector, employ about half of the workforce. So it's a huge segment of companies, and it's a little bit rude, and it's a big deal for the economy as a whole. Thus, preserving the potential of family ventures is economically important. The feature of such companies is that they do well, and even - I would say - they do better in the economy. They are also characterized by higher survival in the economy, which is particularly important in difficult times, e.g. during the economic crisis, when they create a kind of security cushion for the economy. The latest research that we have been following shows that family companies enjoy a lot of trust in Poles, which translates into that, for example. consumers prefer to choose products or services of this type of company, which are characterized by this element, i.e. family business. It is also probably cool that entrepreneurs, company owners, often employees identify with this business, family business. I think that this also affects the fact that employees, owners of such companies often make double efforts to succeed in order to prevent possible failures. So that I think, in summing up this aspect of the presentation of the project, it can be said calmly that family companies, which provide stable jobs, are definitely one of the pillars of our economy. And it is these companies that are primarily addressed to this project, so that our companies - as they sometimes say - can participate in the relay of generations to facilitate their succession processes and actually make them possible. Because today, as I said, it really is bordering on a miracle, and it is certainly a huge effort, often on the border of laws, to keep companies and later continue their work. Thus, the solutions proposed by us enable smooth continuation of the company's activities after the death of the entrepreneur, the natural person. It is about ensuring the smooth operation of the company between the death of the entrepreneur and the formal establishment of legal successors, i.e. de iure to the inheritance department. The institution that serves to maintain or achieve the objective is primarily the institution of the succession board. The task of the succession manager will be to conduct the current business, i.e. concluding, implementing contracts, including employment contracts, carrying out tax settlements, rights and obligations resulting from administrative decisions such as concessions, licences. The administrator will also perform in civil, administrative, tax proceedings relating to the entrepreneur, will be able to claim claims of the deceased entrepreneur, will be able to pay the debts so that the heir can obtain tax interpretations. This will be all that involves the current operation, including access to corporate bank accounts, which today, as I said earlier, is basically cut at the moment of the entrepreneur's death. The use of solutions will, of course, be fully voluntary. It is up to the entrepreneur himself, and after his death it will depend on his successors to establish a succession manager and an institution of the succession board. And that's where the project gives you two options. The most desirable option from our point of view, because simply the easiest option, is the appointment of a succession manager during the life of the entrepreneur. It is then in practice a very simple solution that ensures full continuity - speaking a little figuratively: every minute - the company's functioning. A written declaration by the trader, the authorisation of the manager to perform this function and the entry of the administrator in CEIDG are sufficient for the appointment of the successor manager. If this happens, from the moment of the death of the entrepreneur, the designated manager will be able to manage the company smoothly. The project also provides for such an option that the procurent operating during the life of the entrepreneur will automatically become a successful manager. A solution consisting of the possibility of the establishment of procura by entrepreneurs included in CEIDG has recently been envisaged in the package so-called. the business constitution. This is the most liquid solution, so to speak, i.e. the entrepreneur in his lifetime establishes a procurator, at the same time appoints him for the future a successful manager, and he is running a business in some sense, being a procurator of such a company, and after the death of the entrepreneur enters management functions in place of the deceased entrepreneur. So far, this group of entrepreneurs has not had this possibility, i.e. the establishment of procura. On the other hand, in order to help as many companies as possible in the succession of generations, we must also remember such cases when the entrepreneur does not set up not only a proxy, nor does he set up a succession manager. We're talking about difficult things here, we're talking about some planning for the future after our death, so this is a difficult topic. We've talked to family businesses, it's a difficult topic in every family to talk about between members, so it's a difficult challenge to think about. Various studies also show that many entrepreneurs do not think about it, or at least do not anticipate these steps after their death. We have therefore foreseen a mechanism in the draft which will allow legal successors to continue their activities until the formalities of succession have been completed, and this [[♪ The bell ♪]] heirs will set up a succeeding board. I understand that... [[The rest of you on the committee.]] So, as far as the rest of the solutions are concerned, indeed, as you say, we will talk about them in committee. Finally, I would just say this: I will not hide that this is a difficult legal project. This is a project that we've been working on for a total of over two years, consulting practices, but also having a lot of problems on the inside, so to speak, the ministry, when we were thinking about various possible scenarios. Because here we combine civil law, such as inheritance, obligation, procedural law, i.e. with c.p.c., administrative law, public law, tax law. An additional difficulty is that we must seek to reconcile interests and heirs, and workers - it is about maintaining, preserving jobs - and third parties, for example. co-operatives or contractors of such an entrepreneur, but also prefers the heir himself and the economic interest which is behind maintaining the continuity of the company. However, we are also convinced, after working on this project, that it is worth making this effort, despite this great challenge...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u135	Minister, please come to the end because the new Sejm rules are in place, we're 15 minutes out. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Then I'm not up to date. So that thank you for the opportunity to present the project, especially from the source of the problem and from the direction of the solutions we have prepared. Of course, we are also ready, and we are available during the committee's work, because I think this is a project where all the options to the bottom need to be considered, and we are open to any discussion here. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u136	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the Government draft law on the management of a successful business of a natural person from print no. 2293. In general, the proposal concerns legislative changes that would facilitate the continuation of the business of a natural person included in the CEIDG on similar terms as in the life of an entrepreneur during the period, in principle, between the opening of the inheritance and its department. The economic activity carried out by individuals is by far the most popular form performed by more than 3 million people registered in the REGON system and more than 300 thousand. civil companies. More than 1/3 of all these companies are family businesses. The most important features of family businesses are: building a business on property, family succession and family involvement in business. One of the most important challenges facing family businesses is the issue of generational succession. In the current legal situation, together with the death of the entrepreneur, the legal existence of the company that he is running ends. This involves a number of problems relating to private law as well as public law, which in practice make it difficult for legal successors to continue or resume their entrepreneurial activities. The most important are the absence of a decision-making centre, one person entitled to conduct business affairs and to self-represent all legal successors, limited opportunities to use even temporarily a business firm, the expiry of contracts concluded by the entrepreneur, the expiry of administrative decisions necessary for the conduct of business activities such as concessions, licences or permits, and, for example, difficulties in accessing a bank account. So that in the current legal state it is impossible to maintain full continuity of business activity in practice. A similar situation concerns the pursuit of a common economic activity in the form of civil companies. The death of an accomplice often threatens the existence of the company, especially the two-member company. The primary purpose of the regulation is to provide entrepreneurs who are natural persons with conditions to maintain the continuity of the company after their death. An additional objective of regulation is to strengthen the rights of third parties linked to the operation of the company, including in particular employees, contractors, consumers and other entities cooperating with the company. With the continuation of the company's operations, which will continue to generate profits, jobs will be preserved and opportunities for further development of the company, sometimes built by the personal efforts of the entrepreneur and members of his family, will be increased sometimes for many years. The introduction into the legal order of solutions allowing for the continuation of the business of a natural person after his death will be required the introduction into the system of law of a new law comprehensively regulating the operation of the company during the period so-called. the management board, as well as the amendment of a number of laws in the field of broadly understood civil law, administrative law, labour law or tax law. This law is very expected by entrepreneurs engaged in one-man business activities, as well as - and above all - by their families. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law and is in favour of referring it to further work in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u137	Thank you very much. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of this project, which is presented here today, is very important because the project aims to ensure that the business of a natural person carrying out an economic activity does not end legal existence with the death of that person. This objective is very important in view of the other aspects that I will add, namely that it should be a universal system, which should be widely used so that owners do not lose their jobs and, of course, do not lose their economic turnover. The two institutions mentioned here by the Minister, the institution of the management board and the succession manager, are to guarantee this. In order for this to be common, it is certainly necessary, in addition to the regulations in this law, to prepare a systemic information and education solution so that this tool can be used very well in practice. Today, business environments are looking for a better solution, because the current will message that could be used is very minimally used by entrepreneurs, which means that in addition to this function, this educational and information function is very important. That is why it is so important to have legal awareness of individuals, entrepreneurs and their families, and that this law should cause and force this awareness. In committee work, of course, we will be through proposals, questions or deeper debates on this, trying to support this law so that it can meet this objective. It is also important here to resolve this appointment of the successor manager after the death of the entrepreneur. It will be possible to appoint a manager in two ways. The Minister explained it quite thoroughly. But here, there are also some things that start to happen. Which may have to be further clarified, said. Namely, it seems that there is too short a deadline 2 months after the death of the owner of the entrepreneur to appoint a successor manager. In this short period of time, persons who are entitled to appoint a manager, a business spouse, a person who has taken over the recovery record or an heir, will have to obtain the consent of all persons who may have an influence on that manager. This is sometimes a difficult process and regardless of the fact that this law, this project guarantees such an institution, nevertheless the process of reaching an agreement will probably not be easier than today. It is also a problem in my view that in such a short time it is necessary to decide whether to accept the inheritance or to accept the recovery record. So that we should certainly examine this time frame very carefully and consider whether they should not be otherwise regulated here. It is also very important that those who are entitled to appoint an administrator are aware of the tasks he will carry out, the responsibility and the consequences of this on those who appoint a manager. It is therefore also very important to draw attention to the relevant competences that such an administrator should have. Of course, it is the will and the choice of those who make this appointment of the administrator, but we have to talk about it, we have to pay attention to it, that in this matter nothing will be done. In particular, attention should be paid to the article. 21 and 22, as well as the relationship between the owners of the company in succession and the manager, and to what I have said, responsibility for commitments and all decisions made at that time. It is also a question of decisions relating to the running of an undertaking which will not expire if, within 3 months, that administrator lodges an appropriate request and declares that it accepts the conditions set out in the decision and will, of course, still fulfil those conditions. Here too, this time of 3 months seems too short, so we will try to make our proposals on this issue. To conclude, I present the position of my club. We are in favour of transferring this proposal to the committee for further work. As this regulation is so extensive and is intended to have a universal system application, it needs to be analysed in very detail and the educational and information aspect needs to be taken into account here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u139	Thank you very much, Member. Here you are, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u140	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that the applicant has dealt with this difficult but very important problem from the point of view of entrepreneurs. I am pleased that the motivation here is not only purely fiscal, but also such motivation is in the justification. As we well know, if the company does not function, there is no tax revenue, but it is also a real problem. So I'm going to start with the positives of this bill. First of all, the Act will ensure the continuity of the operation of businesses after the death of single-person entrepreneurs, strengthen the protection of third parties related to the enterprise, especially workers whose employment contracts are now terminated at the time of death and in principle the Labour Code does not protect them as well as those employed in companies or in other forms of business. It is a long-awaited law to ensure a smooth continuation of business. However, there are also shortcomings and controversy in this bill, which I hope will be resolved in committee work. First of all, it is a short time, only two months, for the appointment of the administrator, which was mentioned by the Member. Indeed, this may be difficult in the longer succession proceedings. Another problem is to limit the tax effects only to single-member companies. There is no more comprehensive approach to the issue and regulation of all situations in which, until the time of death, a person was earning income from non-agricultural economic activities. In my opinion, however, the biggest problem that I hope will be solved is the lack of rules allowing a single-person trader to transform his business into a personal company, for example. in a public partnership involving members of his family. The introduction of such rules enabling single-member entrepreneurs to convert their activities also into a personal company would result in an undertaking having the possibility to continue its activities smoothly on the same terms as before if one of the shareholders had died. So that the bill is good. I hope that during the committee's work, the comments presented here in the plenary room will be taken into account, above all, those concerning the possibility of transforming one-man business into a private company of commercial law, which has long been advocated by business representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will now present the relationship of Modern to the government bill on the management of a successful natural person company, print no. 2293. As has already been said here, the issue of the succession of single-member companies is a serious, real problem for entrepreneurs. In the current legal state, the succession of the family business is possible, but complicated and requires prior preparations, which most entrepreneurs unfortunately do not. In addition, the transfer of the company in the will in the form of so-called. the recovery fee requires payment of inheritance tax, which may seriously reduce the opportunities and willingness of the successor to take up business. Thus, at the moment of death, there are problems with continuing running the company, often leading even to bankruptcy. They're shutting down all contracts, including employment contracts. The heirs may not even temporarily use, among others. the name of the firm or the NIP of the deceased trader, and even by acquiring the assets of the company in decline, do not acquire intangible rights associated with it. They lose on it and the heirs, and the economy as a whole. It is also problematic to manage the company during several months of succession proceedings. The Act introduces the concept of enterprise in succession and succession management. This applies to single-member companies and participation in private companies, unless it is stipulated that the shares of the shareholder of the civil partnership are immediately taken over by the heirs. Thanks to this law, at the moment of the death of the trader, the contract which he has concluded does not expire and the activity of the company can normally continue until it is properly covered before the heir, sale or liquidation. During the period until the appointment of the management board, the heir's spouse may carry out the activities necessary for the maintenance of the assets and the possibility of running the business, in particular the satisfaction of the required claims, acceptance of claims and the sale of turnover assets. They may also perform the functions of the ordinary management if the continuity of their activities is necessary for the continuation of their activities or is necessary to avoid serious damage. Generally speaking, we believe that this law is really needed. It should have been adopted before, because many small companies unfortunately fell - they could not continue their activities, because in fact after the death of the owner the company ceased to exist on a good cause. What other comments do we have on this project? Namely, the exemption from inheritance tax applies in the event of a continuation of business for 5 years, even if the continuation of the company's operation has no economic justification or bankruptcy will be declared. This is a bad model, because it forces heirs to run a company and operate a business that in fact brings losses in order to avoid sometimes a large inheritance tax. Therefore, it would be good to shorten this period, because for 5 years the situation in the economy can actually change and it may be that this company is not right at all for a good cause, and the continuation of its operation is forced only and only by the fear that the inheritance tax must be paid. The modern recommendation is that further work on this law should take place in the committee. We are in favour of passing this bill to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u144	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to take a stand on this matter. I feel that the Minister here has given a very detailed explanation for the need for such a law. This is a very important bill, very difficult. This is indeed a very difficult bill. These problems, as far as this family business is concerned, exist and exist. We all know how difficult it is to divide the assets, to deal with bankruptcy, to settle the claims of individual family members. This causes the company to fall completely at that time, to be liquidated. They will lose not only the owners, not only the heirs, but also the employees who are employed there. It's a good thing the government took up this kind of work. Let me put it this way: it is a law that goes in the right direction, because it certainly requires many such human, reliable approaches and a long discussion at committee meetings, a substantive discussion. On the other hand, it is not, as it has already been adopted, a political law, let us be honest with ourselves, nor is it a staff law - because in this House we mostly have many human or political laws. This is typically a substantive bill, Minister, and thank you on behalf of the club for taking the discussion on this project. Undoubtedly, it is needed, it will meet many expectations. I am not going to talk about comments to this bill here, because I think that these comments will be submitted at a committee meeting or subcommittee. This will be fair on all sides and fair attention and fair proposals. I think there's still a lot of change going to be there, because, as the Minister said, you've been working on this bill for two years, so you can see that things are serious and require a lot of arrangements, and that's probably going to be on the committee. On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I request further work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u146	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to Art. 1 the proposed law will only benefit those entrepreneurs who were entered in the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity at the time of death. However, the entry into the CEIDG does not prejudge the actual conduct of an economic activity, it is merely the basis for starting an economic activity within the meaning of its legalisation and is not an event identified as taking up such an activity. Question, Minister: Why does the subject-matter of the proposed law not include natural persons who, at the time of their death, actually carried out business or professional activities on their own behalf, i.e. entrepreneurs within the meaning of the Civil Code at the time of their death, despite the absence of their entry in the CEIDG? Is this wording of the proposed law compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Question two. In accordance with the wording of the Act, since the establishment of the Management Board, the administrator shall exercise the rights and obligations of the deceased entrepreneur arising from his business activity. Is the aim of the authors of the proposed law [[♪ The bell ♪]] is it to keep in force contracts concluded by a dead entrepreneur before he dies? If yes, please indicate who becomes party to these agreements in place of the deceased trader. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u147	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Development wants the continuity of tax settlements related to this activity to be maintained despite the death of a natural person conducting an economic activity. The project in the assessment of many entrepreneurs is underdeveloped. There were even malicious comments and ideas that the entrepreneur, before going to the other world, would write down his indebted activity in the inheritance of the Polish state. Inheritance does not include rights and obligations arising from administrative decisions, in the case of many permits there is no possibility for the successor to take over the decision, so the continuity of business operation will be hindered for heirs when the entrepreneur dies. Consequently, the successor will not be able to operate or perform certain activities until he has obtained the relevant decisions in his favour. Is that a problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]] stay noticeable about this project? How does the government plan to inform entrepreneurs about succession managers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u149	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Thank you for this regulation, the entrepreneurs have been waiting for her for years. It is beneficial not only for family businesses that will be able to continue their activities but also for the economy as a whole. It's hard to overestimate that meaning. Among the many economic bodies, also during the meetings of the Economic Council at our party, which I have the honour to chair, there was such a question, such a suggestion, already mentioned here, to give entrepreneurs the opportunity to transform into a private company, in particular a public company. Question: "Why is this type of regulation not included in the project?" What were the reasons for the lack of such regulation, the institution of transformation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u151	Thank you very much. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u152	My question concerns company-related decisions. Is there a need to confirm the possibility of implementing decisions relating to the undertaking? The condition that includes the manager when he enters the company does not change, he is exactly the same as before. If these are not decisions that concern, because these are excluded, individually, personal owners, and these are licenses, they are concessions or permits, then if for example. The entrepreneur lived and entrusted the management of his company to the manager or the director, no matter what he calls it, as it is in the organizational structure, he would not have to confirm it, so the question is whether this aspect is necessary here. Second question. Do you not see the need, in connection with the introduction of such facilitations for entrepreneurs, to withdraw certain laws which have introduced restrictions for entrepreneurs, and therefore this succession may not concern them? I'm talking about pharmaceutical law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] pharmacies and e.g. agricultural enterprises, but such examples are more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. What business cases will the successful manager not be able to handle? Which will be reserved, whose rights will be deprived, what activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u155	Thank you very much. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very brief question for the Minister. Minister, what is the suggestion of the Ministry to which committee is this bill? Thank you very much. [[Economy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u157	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I also have a brief question about deadlines. Did this 2-month deadline for determining the successor and later this 3-month period for confirmation in the public consultation, the very broad you were conducting, have been considered sufficient by the entrepreneurs or have they raised doubts? What about these deadlines? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u159	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the questions of the representative of the applicant undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Minister Mariusz Haladyj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First question. Mr Bańkowski asked why we do not include the regulation of people who are not in CEIDG and are engaged in economic activities. Firstly, there is no information that they were doing business at all. How to verify that they actually carried out this activity? Should we therefore conduct, or should the authorities of the state conduct any investigations when this activity was conducted but not registered? I say this right away by rejecting suggestions, but I wonder how it is legally possible to do this, because frankly, I find it difficult to imagine. It seems to me that there would have to be a process of verifying such activity of the deceased, whether it really was an economic activity, whether it was carried out continuously, organized. So it's hard for me to imagine it from the legal and practical side. As far as CEIDG is concerned - let us remember that it is the duty of every natural person, if he takes up business, it is his legal duty to register with CEIDG - at this point in time it seems to me that this is primarily a matter of basing himself on certain legal grounds. The second question was whether we were keeping civil contracts, I understand, commercial contracts. Yes, we maintain that the party will be heirs, in accordance with the rules of inheritance law, and of course there is an administrator who will perform these contracts in his own name, but for the benefit of the heirs. Mrs Navel said that we had not worked out the project, because there are administrative decisions that are coming to an end, and therefore there is a huge hole, I understand, in this project, because it does not foresee it. Here's the art. 35 et seq., i.e. the entire chapter 8, which is devoted to the succession of administrative decisions, promes, regulated activities, entries in other registers of the type of regulated activity. We got it from Art. 35 to - it seems - 48 the entire chapter devoted to this sphere. If there are specific shortcomings here, we will of course be happy to talk about it. The second question, if I understand correctly, was how to inform entrepreneurs about this solution. Of course, information activities will have to take place and, of course, we are slowly thinking about them, but we would also like to know first that the bill will be approved first by Parliament and later by the President. If that happens, we have a package of actions planned. I have talked to the environment of family companies, here is the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, which has also established a kind of panel of family companies, these activities will be here together with the environment of family companies certainly planned and performed. Besides, family companies are already reporting some ideas for an information campaign. Mr Gryglas asked why there is no transformation into a company, and one of the Members asked this when presenting the positions of the clubs. Let me put it this way: we've been thinking about it, and it's not so obvious that it's so easy to do. From the system side, from the practical side, this is a difficult task to perform. Today at k.s.h. We have the possibility of transforming our business, but only into a one-man capital company, this possibility exists, but in a personal company - it is not possible indeed. The Polish system of law does not know such a thing as a single person company. There is only this annual period of running in such a formula of a partnership after the death of one of the two partners of such a company, but generally not by chance the Polish system of law of such an institution did not provide for such an institution. In fact, the transformation of one-person business into a personal company would in principle be, in my opinion, the creation of a new legal entity, that is, a personal company. We would have not so much a transformation as just the creation of a new structure. It would also be a question, I do not know, of whether these persons fulfil the conditions for carrying out the regulated activities, etc., because of their participation in such a transformed company. So here it's not obvious that it's possible to do this in such a simple motion. In parallel, after the Council of Ministers adopted the project, we also began to consider the issue of succession in commercial companies, both personal and capital law, and this problem will also be analysed. If you find such a formula to achieve all the results, so to speak, and prevent all the problems that are related to the possible transformation of one-man activity into a personal company, we will also be happy to take this up in the committee. On our part, it is simply a difficult task at this moment, because there are a few such specific problems - at the committee meeting we can tell about it - which is a solution that seems to be obvious at first glance, making it difficult. Mrs Janyska asked what is the need to confirm the decision, since nothing is changing. I don't think anything's really changing. This is not the same situation as when a person who is an entrepreneur and who is registered with CEIDG entrusts performance, I do not know, for example. the management board of this company, the management of this company to a third party, because the person who is registered with CEIDG is still responsible. The succeeding manager is sort of entering the dead person's situation here, and there are issues that need confirmation, like... Personal conditions can sometimes be associated with e.g. with no criminal record or with a specific education which causes the decision, authorisation, authorisation to be granted to the person concerned to be granted or not, and if those personal qualities were not fulfilled by the succeeding administrator, he should not continue the activity of the regulated person. On the other hand, if nothing really changes, then simply confirming such a decision will be 3 minutes and the administrator will continue to operate. Retreating from restrictions - I have the impression that this is a question beyond today's discussion. It's just... Aha, Mr Kasprzak asked what actions the successful administrator would not be able to perform. In general, the administrator will carry out activities with the so-called. ordinary board of directors, which is what we have in civil law today, in the Civil Code. It is a well-known institution, we are not introducing any novelty here. On the other hand, he will not be able to carry out activities himself in excess of the ordinary board of directors, but he will have to obtain the consent of the heirs, i.e. he will not be able to sell the company himself, to borrow more than four times the value of such activity, so do all that is involved simply with a significant influence on the fate of this, in quotes, of the company. Mr Meysztowicz asked about the committee. The Ministry doesn't recommend any committee, no one asks us or we do. On the other hand, any committee will go to any committee, any other committee will call us to present this project, discuss, explain, answer any questions, I can only say for my part that at any call we will simply appear. And as was the case with Entrepreneur's Law, all questions, regardless of how long the committee will be sitting, will also be answered. Mrs Nykiel asked - and this also appeared in the statements by Mrs Janyska and Mr Nykiel - about a period of 2 months for the appointment of a succession manager. It's obviously kind of a dilemma, and I'm not hiding that we have some mathematical formula that let us figure out that 2 months is optimal. This is also the result of many conversations and many discussions, in some sense also weighing arguments. Of course, on the one hand you can say: 2 months, why not 5, not 8 months, let them have that right. Madam, I am just answering questions for two months. As I say, this is a problem which, of course, is part of the discussion. We also discussed it, we wondered and, as I said, there is no obvious answer that it is to be 2 months, not 2,5, not 8, not 7.3. But let us look at the consequences of extending or shortening this period. Shortening - simple, little time to think. Remember, too, that no law is designed to alleviate conflicts or disputes between family members. Let us also bear in mind that the succession manager is not appointed by persons who have already established acquisition of the estate, that is, after a long procedure, only those who fulfil one condition: they have accepted the inheritance. Thus, it is a non-trial operation, etc., which is a simple activity dependent solely on the will of the heir. And now why didn't we extend this period for more than two months, just put these two months together? Let's see what happens during the company's operation when there's no company. That's right, first of all, there's no company at this time, which is a big risk for the company itself. The longer the period from death to the appointment of a succession board, the greater the risk that when the company returns to trading, it may already, so to speak, have nothing to collect in the market sense. I'm almost done. The family business community itself pointed out that this period in some sense should also motivate the heirs to deal with these matters as quickly as possible so that this company can return to life. Because what happens in the last two months? We have suspended the execution of commercial contracts, and therefore during this period they are not charged e.g. interest on counterparties. The counterparty also lives in some sense in a state of uncertainty. The workers also live in a state of uncertainty, whether there will be a return of this company, whether they will be looking for a new job, or if they will hope that the heirs will take this issue. We also have a state of suspension when it comes to administrative decisions, and we have a question of restoring the NIP. For the company's assets it is so unfavorable that after this period the company can simply fall out of the market. During this period, we have only conservative actions, which are aimed solely at preserving the company's potential. Within these conservation activities nothing can be done but the sale of stocks or the acceptance of receivables. There's no access to the bank account. From our perspective, it seems... I mean. It's not a giant problem. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, that's why I'm saying... The consequences of the prolonged suspension state of the company, which I mentioned, affect that this state of uncertainty should be as short as possible. The longer it is, the more unfavorable it is for the contractors, and for the employees, and for the assets, the heirs, so everyone loses on it. This period should be as short as possible. I'm saying, for us, it's not a problem, we can figure it out at 8, but after considering various arguments, we think that this period should be so that it simply mobilizes to quickly, colloquially speaking, put things together. Thank you very much. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u161	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the management of a successful company to the natural person from print No 2293 to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on supporting new investments (print No 2307). I ask the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure of presenting a bill to support new investments. This is a law called the Special Economic Zones Act. We're investigating this bill for two reasons. First of all, because the conditions for doing business in Poland and investing have changed radically since a special zone mechanism was established in Poland, i.e. since 20 October 1994, and thus when the first law on special economic zones was adopted. And the second point, also no less important, is that this law provided for the sustainability of this project for 25 years. We're in the 24th year of this mechanism. It was therefore necessary to address this project today, also because of the guarantee of the certainty of the functioning of entrepreneurs in special economic zones and those who are interested in investing, using this mechanism. Thus, the proposed regulations respond on the one hand to the social and economic changes that occur not only in Poland but in Europe at all, and also respond to the assumptions included in the Responsible Development Strategy, a medium-term strategy in which also certain principles and assumptions regarding attracting new investments or supporting new investments have been diagnosed. One of the expected results of the Responsible Development Strategy is sustainable economic development, firstly and secondly, sustainable territorial development. When we analyze the zone policy mechanism that has been operating in Poland since 1994, we noticed some... First of all, the analysis is not clear. There are many analyses which indicate that we have not obtained this basic effect for which zones have been established, namely the burying of ditches between Poland A and Poland B, as we defined it at that time. And so we see, even though we have special economic zones at the eastern wall of Poland, that the number of interested parties investing there is in no way equal to the number of those who are interested in investing at the western border or in areas that are in good development today as far as macroeconomic indicators are concerned. Thus, granting a balance is something that seemed particularly important to us. Introducing mechanisms that will significantly improve the quality and quantity of investments on these white spots on the map of development Poland, we were particularly interested here. Therefore, the system of support designed in the act in the form of the right of the trader to obtain an income tax exemption will be an important and effective tool to encourage entrepreneurs to invest throughout the country. As you probably remember, we presented this project: the whole of Poland with a special economic zone. So what is changing with regard to the current rules? Firstly, in the criteria for assessing investments that will be able to obtain a zone privilege, we focus on the development of innovative areas of economic activity. Compared to the current law, the first criterion which decided to grant these special privileges was the number of jobs created. In a situation where today's hands for work are more a problem on the Polish market than the level of unemployment, we considered that this is no longer a basic criterion for granting a special tax advantage. So the quality of this investment is what we would like to assess in the process of granting the privilege. Another important element is the creation of new stable jobs for highly skilled workers. If we say that one of the objectives of the SOR is to equalise the income of qualified workers, Polish workers with employees in the old Member States of the European Union, then certainly the placement of high-volume, high-value processing industries located high in the value chain is what we want to reward with a zone privilege. We want to create new technical, technological solutions through this mechanism and use them in the economy, increase the competitiveness of manufactured products and services, export development, further export development, because I will remind you that these indicators for the first quarter are also very optimistic for us. Finally, the last thing, although perhaps the most important, is the inhibition of growing regional diversity. It is about making those places where no investment is present, these investments start to appear. These special economic zones, which were created 20 years ago, have not been subject to such changes in these 20 years. The new concept involves obtaining an income tax exemption for new investments. Unlike the existing system, the entrepreneur will be able to seek relief in any area where business can be carried out. What does that imply? This also implies a change in the operating rules of zone companies. The Zone Company today will not be primarily concerned with expanding its territory and then disposing of it, as has been the case so far, but will be primarily concerned with the professional service of the investor who chooses... Of course, according to the State aid map, because we cannot not benefit from, by eating or giving tax advantages, from the aid map approved by the European Commission, the State aid map. In fact, the investor will have more freedom to choose. What does that mean? What does this also imply in practice? This means, above all, a drastic shortening of the waiting time for business permits. Today, the special economic zone requests permission to acquire the land, then this agreement is often occupied by a discussion, depending on the spatial planning plan, with local authorities, with the real estate agency. This process is therefore very prolonged. So we are also formally shortening this process. The Act will also eliminate a situation in which certain powiats were not covered by the economic zone and others had several zones operating on their territory. In order to be clear, this law does not increase bureaucracy, as the number of companies serving investors will not increase, companies will get new tasks - those companies that already operate today. What will companies do according to the wording of the new law? They will, first, make available to entrepreneurs on the basis of a contract the assets of which the manager owns. They will carry out promotional activities in favour of entities operating in the zone. This is also a vector change. The companies were primarily engaged in attracting and planting investments in their territory. Today we will require zones also to be actively supported by pro-export, to go outside with products and services developed by the company. The entire information package on labour market information, the intermediary between the investor and the district labour offices, as regards the workforce needed for the sector concerned, for the trader concerned. Finally, cooperation in education, in the development of training solutions for companies operating in the area, in the jurisdiction of a special economic zone. Consulting and keeping an active map of available investment areas throughout Poland. This is also our ambition. We would like to see such a map as soon as possible, because in fact no body or institution in Poland has such a map. Zone managers will carry out their tasks on the basis of their investment development plan. We assume that after these changes more areas in Poland will have the advantage of investment attractiveness and that this time will radically shorten, although during the last 2 years it has been reduced by 3 months, as our internal ministerial statistics show. We assume that after the entry into force of this law, this time should not exceed 1 month. What will condition the decision to support you? The aid will be based on a decision by a potential investor to grant support. This decision will determine the duration of the decision, as is the case today in special economic zones and, consequently, the period during which the trader will be entitled to benefit from public aid in the form of income tax exemptions. This decision will also determine the subject-matter of the business activity and the conditions to be met by the trader. This decision will be issued for a period of between 10 and 15 years, and in areas which were incorporated into economic zones until the entry into force of the Act, the decision will be issued for a period of 15 years. This solution is intended to make the best use of already adapted land for investment, as optimally as possible, because as we report to you every year, speaking about how companies have implemented the Special Zones Act, the level of use of today's land does not reach 70%. The Act provides for a two-fold assessment of the investment. Firstly, we will assess them through the level of investment - what I said earlier - that the volume of investment is important. The investment threshold will be different depending on the size of the company and the level of development of the district. What does that mean? This means that, for the first time in practice, small and medium-sized companies are also involved and have the opportunity to benefit from the zone privilege. The scoring system, which we set up in the Act, also gives small and medium-sized companies a certain preferential opportunity to benefit from this privilege. This too, I will remind you, one of our goals, not only the number of small and medium-sized companies, of which we are very proud in Poland when it comes to the contribution of small and medium-sized companies to GDP, but also the number of employees employed... On the other hand, one of the objectives, also very important, is that these small companies become medium-sized and medium-sized. We believe that allowing small and medium-sized companies to benefit from the additional advantages offered by the zone mechanism will allow them to grow faster. According to Art. 28 investment support records shall also be set up to obtain the data used to handle the investment process, to carry out analyses on the effects of the operation of the support provided under this Act. In this register, information will be collected identifying, on the one hand, entities in general interested in using the special zone and, on the other hand, those which have already received the aid. It will be such a constant monitoring of this and will also make it easy to assess how this zone mechanism works and affects the Polish economy. The records will be served by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. As we estimate, one of the most important benefits of adopting this law is, above all, to ensure stable development conditions for those companies that are already in the zones today. They have guaranteed and guaranteed the conditions under which they work today, because this law makes assumptions. For these entrepreneurs, because the process is not stopped in running. Entrepreneurs apply for zone permits which are granted, and thus until the President signs the law, until, of course, it is adopted by the Sejm for those who are in the process of obtaining this zone permit, the conditions of the existing old law will be maintained. Thus, the stability of operating conditions is one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another thing is stable employment. At the same time, we hope to create stable employment conditions by granting a zone privilege for 10 and 15 years. The third important thing is the question of responsible development that we are talking about, responsible, that is, sustainable territorially. The fourth issue is support for small and medium-sized companies, which is our very important goal here. And the fifth is hope for the rapid development of innovative technologies, modern technologies, those that are driven by the global economy. These are the basic objectives that we set ourselves in the Special Economic Zones Act. I hope that this project will meet with your interest. We request that this bill be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u163	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law on the promotion of new investments, Parliamentary printing No 2307. In Polish legislation, there is a law on special economic zones, called the SEZ Act, adopted on 20 October 1994, which regulates issues arising from the need to stimulate investment, at the same time as the process of eliminating high structural unemployment, which was so high in the 1990s as a result of systemic changes after 1989. At present, a large number of companies are trying to obtain income tax exemptions and the interest in this form of State aid is increasing. At the end of 2016, the number of valid permits to conduct business activities in the SEZ was 2263, the cumulative value of the invested capital amounted to approximately PLN 112 billion and the number of employees employed through these investments amounted to over 332 thousand. These facts clearly support the need to maintain the State's tax credit-based tools for entrepreneurs declaring new investments and job creation, with the tax exemption instrument characterised by high efficiency and minimal risk on the part of the State, as it can only be used by those economic operators who actually invest and make profits. However, over the 20-year period of the SEZ Act, the instrument of relief has not been adapted to changing economic needs and challenges. Only this project is an attempt to adapt these incentive tools to the new economic reality. The tax exemption instrument will be available for new investments, which according to Polish legislation and according to the definition of the European Commission include the creation of a new production plant and reinvestments, including investments meeting quantitative criteria, investment expenditures, and qualitative criteria consistent with the strategy for responsible development, verifying the impact of investments on the development of the competitiveness of the Polish economy and the impact on the development of the region. The draft law proposes, taking into account the problems identified in this field, to introduce the following solutions: firstly, complete departure from territorial restrictions when applying the instrument of tax exemptions in accordance with the rules on land use; secondly, to set the period of tax exemption; thirdly, to strengthen the role of management companies in the investor service system and, fourthly, to promote sustainable development in accordance with the SOR. The Act on the promotion of new investments will be able to benefit entrepreneurs planning new investments, obtaining a tax exemption for the implementation of such investments throughout Poland and not so far in the SEZ. The conditions for obtaining public aid will include: dependent on the rate of unemployment in the county and adapted to the size of the entrepreneur. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, taking into account all the above advantages of this regulation, welcomes the draft in parliamentary print No 2307 and recommends that this draft be directed to work in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u165	Thank you, Member. Ms Mirosław Nykiel from the Civic Platform Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki at the economic congress in Krynica announced very noisy: Poland is one economic zone. Later, this was confirmed by a law adopted. Poland is one economic zone. But nothing has really changed since then. Today we have a bill that allows for such alternative investments in relation to those implemented within the current special economic zones, i.e. investments based on the Special Economic Zones Act. And I was very pleased because I have often also paid attention to this long process of changing the boundaries of individual economic zones and adapting to the long-term process of investor activity. And that's where my joy ended because I looked at the bill and there was nothing about it. we don't know, because the most important thing, really, is the cloud of this law, that's the whole system of tax exemptions dependent on quality criteria, and that's not much in the law, it's gonna be in the regulation. That's why my joy didn't last long. Just as I talk to entrepreneurs, they ask when a regulation that will determine how the entire tax exemption system for investors will be at what stage of the bill's process... Because this is the biggest trap in this bill. Today I find it really hard to relate because my intentions are good, but as we know, our adage says that good intentions of hell are paved. It is therefore important to know what tax relief system will be provided for in this regulation and, in fact, when, at what stage this regulation will be able to assess. Because I think there's a dog buried here. My second question concerns the implementation of this project through these zone companies that are up to date today and what you are proposing there, the creation of these councils with local government units. I hope it will not only be as it is now designed in the bill, that these advices may arise, but they do not need to arise, there is no obligation. Is it mandatory? There's no such thing as advice. How will all these principles be implemented? Because if you want to achieve this quality objective, which the Minister mentioned here and it is in this bill, then my question with this autonomy of these management companies, with increased autonomy, is this: Will you allow them such a more arbitrary approach, or will you impose in advance what they are going to achieve, because how can you achieve these objectives set out in the law? And so do many experts, maybe not so many, but at least I've talked to a few, and there is doubt that this bill will not have the opposite effect on the objectives. Because if local government units and these management companies have a lot of freedom, I think they'll be more interested in attracting this stream of investment, more and more. These more quantitative criteria will be guided by jobs, and they will not be too concerned that it is somehow completely unsustainable, and will not be concerned that there are many counties in the region. Here the government has different objectives, i.e. this coherence of objectives and the ability of these companies to achieve. Now let's look at how investors invest money. What are their reasons? They take first of all the location, infrastructure, labour resources, quality of life. What else do they take? More urbanization, better education. That's what they do. If they are able to choose throughout Poland, they will choose freely, and not necessarily where you want, in a given territory, because there is a need to balance. And just how do you want to achieve these goals? We are as a club in favour of referring the contested law to further work in committee, but provided that a regulation is presented at the stage of the parliamentary work, which is the clou of this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u167	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda from the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Kukiz15 wall stands behind Polish entrepreneurs and also behind employees, so we believe that Poland should indeed be one big economic zone, which will support everyone who invests in Poland, all entrepreneurs, in particular small, medium and micro companies, because they most often have 100% Polish capital and 70% on them. Our economy is on the line. These small entities are also more difficult to compete with big international companies, which, as we know, sometimes receive government subsidies, such as Mercedes - 81 million, JP Morgan recently - 20 million PLN. Unfortunately, these biggest companies also most often avoid paying taxes. Therefore, targeting this project in particular to these small, micro and medium-sized enterprises is very important. We believe that this law that creates one big economic zone should actually have been adopted a few years ago. That is why we hope that it will enter into force as soon as possible. I also have questions about regulations, among others. with the maximum regional aid intensity. There is quite a wide variety of assistance in the area of voivodships. The only problem is that in these richer voivodships there are also poorer districts and it seems that these poorer counties in richer voivodships will lose, or maybe richer in these poorer voivodships will gain, despite the fact that voivodships, as we know, border with each other and may lead to some disruption of this system. The next point, from what I've seen, is the areas of these districts, which are not territorially coherent either, i.e. these economic zones, is not simply an area that can be drawn with one line, but they cross between themselves, I don't know why. Maybe it'd be worth it to lean back on this case again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u169	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Modern about the government bill on supporting new investments, print no. 2307. This is indeed the implementation of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki's plan, which announced that he would like to treat Poland as one economic zone. The support mechanism proposed by the Act is intended to replace the special economic zones which will cease to operate in 2026. The Act allows the granting of public aid in the form of an income tax exemption in the case of so-called. new investments. The Act introduces the concept of a new investment, i.e. one which is linked to the establishment of a new company, an increase in the production capacity of an existing company, diversification of the production of the company by the introduction of products previously not produced in the company. The level of support and the minimum size of investment depend on qualitative criteria - the compatibility of investments with the national development strategy, and quantitative - the level of unemployment in the district. They will not receive support from the company in bankruptcy as well as investments carried out in the area where the fossils are present, unless the investment is related to the extraction of these fossils. The Minister responsible for Economic Affairs shall, by means of a regulation, identify the areas in which the law is implemented and designate the area managers. They are subject to the rules on the governance of the State Treasury. Managers are to attract investments, provide investors with information, help them with contacts with the administration, cooperate with local schools, make the property they manage available to entrepreneurs. Services may be provided for payment, except for the provision of information. They have to provide information on state aid in the process of supporting investments in the system of stop shops. The managing authority of the submitted candidates shall, on the basis of assessment and knowledge and experience, appoint an area council consisting of representatives of entrepreneurs, including micro, small and medium-sized, representatives of local government units located within the area and representatives of regional councils for social dialogue. Participation in the Council shall be free of charge. The Council is to perform advisory and opinion-making functions. The decision to grant relief shall be taken by the Minister of Economy for a period of between 10 years and 15 years. The rules governing the granting of the concession, quantitative and qualitative criteria, the list of activities for which the relief is not granted, the way in which the criteria are verified, the method of determining the amount of support shall be determined by the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers, at the request of the Minister responsible for budget matters, may suspend the programme of concessions, i.e. a period during which no new decisions to grant the concession are issued. The conditions to be met by the trader, the type of investment, employment, the amount of eligible costs and the amount of support shall be determined individually. The decision to grant support may be repealed if the trader has ceased its activity or does not fulfil the conditions for granting support, or at the request of the trader himself. Then the trader must return the aid received. The Minister's officials shall carry out periodic and ad hoc checks on compliance with those conditions. According to the authors of the law, the possibility of obtaining support for investments across the country is the main advantage of investment programmes with our neighbours, in the Czech Republic, Hungary or Slovakia. Unlike the special economic zones, the proposed scheme significantly supports investment by the small and medium-sized enterprises. The Special Economic Zones Act is not repealed, so they will operate two parallel systems on a good case. The fact is that this law lays down such strict rules for the functioning of these areas, but I will not hide that the devil is always in the details and we will wait for regulations that will precisely clarify how it is to actually look. If we can encourage the investor to locate his investment in the areas where it is needed, it will be a success, but this may not work, because these incentives may not be enough and the investor will place it where it will be far more beneficial for him for various reasons, for example because of average wages. In general, we are in favour of this bill. The Modern Club will vote in favour of passing this bill to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u171	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u172	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My club will support the proposal to proceed with this bill because we will support any change that brings something new and is needed. On the other hand, I would not like this to be shown as something revealing and on a political basis, and this is the approach to saying that economic zones have been wrong so far. No, the economic zones have fulfilled their task, Minister. There has been no better solution so far, and it is necessary to honor and honor those who have worked on it over the years, improving these solutions instead of politically stating: we have an ideal solution at the moment. Nothing's been done yet, and we already have the perfect solution. No, a little humility is needed. I recall how Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki came to the east of Poland, in Podkarpatha, and he said: how sustainable development will be, it will all begin to develop beautifully. Today I would ask the question: "So what? So? So let's not get ahead of ourselves, because I'm nothing. I didn't notice that. There is a need for change, of course, it needs to be improved, improved, but I do not see any revolution here, because it depends on entrepreneurs, depending on a number of other issues that decide whether there will be capital, whether there will be a desire to invest, whether entrepreneurs will come or whether they will like other places. The zones still function until 2026 and whether we give freedom to choose a place will not decide anything yet, because other revolutionary things are not visible here, or at least I do not see. But I will say this: the name itself and the same image preaching: Poland is one big zone of nothing It doesn't change yet. We would like our economy to thrive, to make people live better, to create good conditions, but these are above all legal conditions and tax conditions, the whole institutional solutions involved in doing business, and above all the stability of the law. The stability of the law is the most important issue that entrepreneurs have today. We will work on these changes, we will support them, but I would not express such great delight and say that all of a sudden it is moving, and so far it has been wrong. No, the zones fulfilled their task, several times there was a amended act, there was a discussion whether to keep it in this form or to eliminate it, because there were also such temptations to eliminate economic zones in Poland. So far they're up to 2026, and as it goes, we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u173	Thank you very much. Members of Sylwester Khrushch from Free and Solidarny and Adam Cyranski wrote their statements in writing. We therefore move on to the discussion. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of... [[Questions.]] [[Questions.]] I'm sorry. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel. After the first question, I close the list. Question time - 1 minute. [[Why so short? We have plenty of time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many areas of a country with a large number of registered unemployed people do not in fact have free human resources. However, the impact assessment states that the new law will bring almost 210 000 in 10 years. new jobs. My first question is: Where is this data and is it real? Entrepreneurs fear that the effects of over-expectations on new jobs that cannot be created will be passed on to them. This will even threaten to reimburse the entire tax waived during the period of exemption. Depending on the expectations of new jobs, the tax exemption will hamper new investments. Moreover, small companies are unlikely to meet the quantitative criteria based on the level of unemployment at the investment site, even though they have been significantly reduced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In particular, quality criteria such as the employment of staff with specialist education, the creation of well-paid jobs, cooperation with research centres may be difficult for them. Well, then, would you like to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u175	Thank you very much, Member. [[Mrs. Marshal, I think we have enough time today so we can speak calmly.]] I would like to ask Miss Mirosława Nykiel from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister, I have a question about this regulation, which I was talking about: When, at what stage of the Parliament's work on the project, will you present these qualitative assumptions and show the regulation? And the second question about how this project will be implemented: Will it be unified across Poland or will you allow management companies to take a more arbitrary approach? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u177	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Richard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u178	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! I am definitely asking for a full speech, because I will only speak substantively.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u179	One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u180	This bill is an idea to continue special economic zones and disperse the corporate income tax exemption instrument across the country. However, the question is whether this will be a good instrument for state intervention. I'm talking to the Minister. The question is, will it be? Well, I have fundamental doubts, because the state de facto has this law... There is no language in this law, there is no philosophy of the law on the principles of development policy. In addition, the state de facto bypasses local governments, in particular the local government. It is said that these investments will be delimited, and the minister will do so, these areas will be delimited, but where the basic acts that speak about the development of the area, because the local government is predisposed to conduct regional policy and development in its area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not here. We only have the mechanism that the entrepreneur is applying, writing the motion. The essence of development policy is that we define the places, the points at which these investments are to be implemented, so that there is a principle...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u181	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u182	...so there's synergy. It's not here, we're gonna have a scattered system, and unfortunately, this instrument... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u183	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda from the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about this regulation, because there are excluded industries of all kinds. In point 10, point (a) is replaced by the following: and you rule out the industry as an innovation, because you produce films, videos, sound recordings, music. After all, it is creative, creative, soft, but with great potential, it is also a variety of 3D animations. After all, the Polish Film Institute receives multi-million grants every year. Perhaps the subsidies could be reduced if we were to take over this area as well. I do not know if it is a good decision to exclude these activities. Maybe I'd ask you to lean over that part again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u185	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a practical question. Since we are saying that there will be sustainable development, that difficult areas will be revived, Eastern Poland is spoken of, please explain to me what will happen if there is an economic zone in the east, and for many years it has armed areas, full infrastructure, and for several years the entrepreneur has not arrived there. What will happen now, after these changes, that entrepreneurs will appear in this area, if they already had everything: the matter of the land, the expansion of the zone and infrastructure? I don't see any differences here. I may have misread the bill, but what are the arguments, which will cause this potential entrepreneur to appear here, where he is expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u187	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions, because the natural thing is - because the special economic zones have been well communicated, there is quite good infrastructure, because it decided that there were investments there - that there are also areas around these zones that can be attractive to entrepreneurs who will want to obtain relief under this law, but they will no longer be in the zone. In this arrangement, will the management company of this zone also be able to manage areas around the zone which will not be in the zone for good? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u189	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Biernat's question from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a few brief questions for the Minister. Minister, didn't you consider, first of all, the connection between this law and land development plans? In order to expand the zones into new areas, these must be industrial areas. Today, the change of plans lasts an average of 2 years and does not always end in success. Another issue is EU funds, which are already running out, and the preparation of a new area, because we are talking about extra-zone areas, requires a lot of investment. There is no assistance in the preparation of the infrastructure in this law. Before that, it was possible. Is another law being prepared that will allow poor local governments, because we are talking about the Eastern Wall governments, to arm these new areas? And the third question. For many years, there has been discussion that there is no labour force for vocational schools, industry schools, [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepare young people for a profession that is needed in the zone. There is no direct funding for industry education here either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u191	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Maria Małgorzata Janyska from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the territory, how it has been divided into areas to be managed by the managing authority, taking into account - as it is written - territorial cohesion, economic links and borders of powiats. By means of a regulation, the draft of which is attached to the printing, Poland was divided into precisely those areas which were to fulfil these characteristics: territorial cohesion, economic links and borders of powiats. Now let me give you an example. Ladies and gentlemen, Wielkopolska, from which I am from: four zones and four management entities - Kostrzyn-Słubicka, Łódź, Pole and Wałbrzysk. The nearer area from which I am from, the Pilski district, is managed by Kostrzyn-Słubicka, Czarnkowsko-Trzcianecka, where I live, which are adjacent by a pole. What kind of connection do we have here, ladies and gentlemen? It's getting a little into the local authorities' powers without consulting the marshals. I have a question: Has there been a consultation? As far as I know, it wasn't. Maybe I'm wrong. And now, ladies and gentlemen, for example, these two districts that I mentioned are already in the Pilski Area of Strategic Intervention, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which was created on the basis of an analysis of the Marshal's office and which includes these links, among others. is intended to promote economic development and territorial links. There will be a large number of managers in one area, and everyone will work on their outfit without cooperating, without having a good effect. I'm afraid that's the outcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u193	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski's question from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The state in your project is saying that the manager is setting up an economic development council. You say that your representatives will also have voivodship, district or communal self-governments. I would like to ask who will possibly report these representatives of local governments, because in fact only the manager will have the right to choose these people from among these candidates. So I have a question: Are the mayor, the mayor, the governor, the people who will be able to submit these candidates? And second question, Minister. At the moment, mines are being destroyed, including areas after these mines. Minister in programs for Silesia e.g. says that these areas will be transferred e.g. Katowice Special Economic Zone. Is it possible, in the sense of functioning, to enter into force of this law or not? Do you foresee such transfers to the Katowice special zone of mining sites? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u195	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Galla, a non-associated Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that today we are debating a bill which is supposed to have very good objectives - support for investment. On the other hand, I have some experience from the past connected with my voivodship, Opole voivodship, when the voivodship was punished with no economic zone for a long time. It was only after a few years that we had the opportunity to expand the Wałbrzych zone. or Katowice for sub-zones in Opole Voivodeship. Today, when you present this bill, you are talking about the fact that decisions on support will be issued on time marked: for 10 years, 12 years or 15 years, depending on the intensity of public aid in the given voivodship. Of course, you're still talking about special zones, about the fact that this support is going to be there for 15 years, and my question is, how are you going to treat these areas, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for which this support will be for 10, 12 or more years? Will they depend on what investments appear? What other indicators will be decisive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u197	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The development of entrepreneurship is very important for the Polish economy and all regulations that contribute to it absolutely deserve attention, but also support. But I wanted to ask you about the effects. I did not find an exact explanation in the explanatory memorandum, and it was not actually addressed. Namely, it is the income of local government units. If we introduce far-reaching reliefs, it will result in a loss of income. I didn't find any recipe to talk about compensation for these units. Tell me what's going on with your income. Do we consciously continue, yet another provision, to deprive the local government of these revenues and limit them? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u199	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Jan Warzech's question from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This project responds to the demands of many local and business environments, but please clarify to answer a few questions. What tools will be used for the development of an innovative economy in the planned strategy for responsible development? With the help of which legal institutions will the project provide support to entrepreneurs who are engaged in or wishing to conduct business activities in regions facing restructuring and adaptation problems, most often in small and medium-sized cities that have lost their former socio-economic functions? Does the government not fear that large urban agglomerations, as well as better developed regions and properly communicated with our partners in the European Union, mainly those with large academic centres, will consume most of the benefits resulting from the implementation of this project? I'm asking because I'm convinced the government has a purpose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the implementation of the project: The whole Poland special economic zone did not take place at the expense of medium-sized cities, as well as outermost regions of less economic importance and degree of development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u201	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I ask you to speak to the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the detailed, detailed reading of the bill. I hope this bode well for the pace of work on the bill at the next stages of the Seym. I will answer in detail both the speeches and the questions. I will start with Mrs Nykiel's question about how the relief system will look in detail, what quality criteria will look like and how we will apply statutory bonds to the appointment of the board, who will assess it. Now, back to the question of the regulation, which was asked later, in a series of specific questions, I will say this: the regulation is already available, it is hanging in the RCL and we are before the consultation foreseen for 7 days. At the same time, I will say that this law was drafted really, also methodologically, in a very good way, i.e. We have worked with both the management boards of zone companies and businessmen - those who already enjoy these zone privileges and potential ones - as well as with local governments, Mr. Recently, personally, in my office, I held a meeting with representatives of local governments of two voivodships. So that I feel that we have actually consulted this bill. As far as the regulation is concerned, as I say, it is now hanging in the RCL. There's a 7-day consultation deadline. This will certainly enter into force on an equal footing with the bill, there will be no delay here. I encourage you to read. The quality criteria we adopt there are divided into four categories that take account of structural development, scientific development, sustainable development, human resources development. The minimum entry criteria are 6 points, with a reduction of up to 5 points for areas with a public aid intensity of 35% and up to 4 points - with a public aid intensity of 50%. Among these quality criteria we mentioned is the creation by the investor of a research and development centre or the creation of a common service centre. As we know, Poland - two Polish cities - in a recently published report takes 9th position as regards the location of common service centres. These are increasingly advanced, not front office services, and more and more back office services, so we also respect them with an appropriate score. Then belonging to clusters. We want entrepreneurs in Poland to cooperate, creating these value chains longer, therefore this is one of the criteria. The regulation is therefore precise how the entrepreneur will apply for assistance and what assistance he will be able to count on. The next question raised in the speech is whether we are not afraid that entrepreneurs will not choose the best, and so attractive places. If we're talking about a public aid map, it creates, to a certain extent, these limitations. As we know, investors fulfilling these criteria, which we are talking about here, are increasingly difficult to choose, for example. Warsaw, Wrocław or Krakow, because the possibility of obtaining public aid in these areas is not attractive - if that would be the basic criterion. Thus, indeed, the zone instrument will not deter those who want to come to Krakow or Warsaw, because of public aid, because they cannot count on this one in too large a size in these cities. Indeed, he is to attract them to the places where this public aid is still offered. It's about height. There was a doubt about the intensity of public aid calculated per county. That's in the bill today. Let me remind you once again that we are putting it on a map, which is known to everyone in Poland today, from a map of public aid adopted by the European Commission. In Mr Meysztowicz's speech, I understand, in support of the idea of a new zone law, there was an appeal to the Czech Republic and Slovakia. When we presented the assumptions to the law at all, we pointed to these two models of such dynamic state aid, depending on the needs of investors. Indeed, we have been looking at what our southern neighbours are doing in this area. We also looked at what our Baltic neighbours were doing, who extended their permits. Last year Latvia submitted a new ten-year zone law, and Lithuania has recently introduced such an instrument. In response to Mr Kasprzak's attention, I must say that modestia, and therefore humility, is the virtue that I try to guide in my work every day and every day. In my speech, I didn't say that the bill to date was wrong. All I said was that the model had run out, which is why we've been working on preparing a new one, appreciating what was going on in the zones. I have also talked about this many times here in the Sejm, reporting on the action of the Zone Policy Act. So the modestia really is, but thank you, because never enough to remind you of her. On the other hand, referring to the precise question about what to do with areas that are armed and intended for investments that will be in special economic zones, I would like to say that this is the problem, Mr, which we have and which we can point out on the basis of the current law. Moreover, I have said many times - I think this is a practice that we can clearly say to ourselves here over political divisions - that very often the zone instrument was used, especially in certain pre-election sequences, as an instrument which further strengthens or weakens electoral campaigns and willingly included flood areas, areas under large electrical traction. We've got one. One of the lowest levels of use of zone areas is in the Warmia-Mazury zone, which is rich in so-called. investment areas where the investor will never come, no matter how high public aid is offered to him, because he will not be able to build there either a hall or a research and development centre or a shared service centre. Thus, these areas are still investment areas, the new law does not exclude them, they can still be offered, but we will not force anyone to appear in these areas. Mrs Navel's question is whether we are not concerned that the Act will cause problems in the labour market and employment. Or, in other words, she doubts that the law is based on an impact assessment of the increase in the number of jobs in the zones. On what basis did we present these estimates? We presented them on the basis of knowledge and data, because that's all we use. The dynamics of the increase in the number of jobs despite the problems in the labour market that today are with forces, hands to work, is that last year we recorded an increase of 13 thousand, i.e. There were 30 percent of these places. more than the previous year. So I think that here, the combination of attractive conditions of investment placement with good service by zone companies of investors in cooperation with local governments, because without it - let's face it openly - these zones will not work, makes really high-volume investments that offer a lot of attractive, new jobs. I answered Mrs Nykiel's question earlier. As to whether it will be a uniform system throughout Poland, I would like to say that the uniform conditions will depend on the criteria that I have said, i.e. if the public aid amounts to 50%, the number of points that the investor will gain there will be respectively lower. A particularly sensitive question was the lack of philosophy of development. There is no such thing as the philosophy of development, there should be classical philosophy, but let's say that this is about a method of approach to development policy. I think that this law is basically the implementation of the development policy principles enshrined in the It is precisely in the criteria set out in the regulation and in the stated objectives pursued by this law that we are simply talking about what kind of investment and what kind of jobs we want to create in Poland in the next 10 to 15 years. The fact that we say: the whole of Poland really means that we do not divide, we do not draw a line of stains. Referring to the next question, concerning the care of tax losses, which would have been higher if the area had not been covered by the zone, I would say that we are talking about the fact that if there was no such advantage, the investment would not have been at all. So we're not talking about a defect, we're talking about a decrease in influence, but they're going to be. This is perception, this is the assessment of the operation of special economic zones over the past years. So it seems that we have defined in a very precise way what development policy we are adopting. We hope that by not limiting areas, these objectives will be achieved. I answer the question about the map of the intensity of public aid and its amount. If we are talking about places where public aid can reach 50% , then permits will be granted for 15 years if we are talking about areas covered by public aid up to 35% - then 12 years and below this value - permits for 10 years. In answer to Mr Warzecha's last question, on how this law fits into other elements of the Responsible Development Strategy - he mentioned three areas: one is innovation, the other is a matter of medium-sized cities and the third is an academic centre and their cooperation - let me say that, firstly, the points that we will give to potential investors already indicate that the creation of a R &amp; D centre is highly scored. However, I will also remind you that this is not a law that solves all the problems defined in the Responsible Development Strategy. The issues of support and development of R &amp; D in Poland or commercialisation of these results are also implemented by the so-called "states" adopted last year. First and second Innovation Act, which entered into force on 1 January this year, according to which the trader can obtain 100% reimbursement of costs spent on research and development. With regard to depreciation or cities that may lose their social functions in the horizon, this is a special programme for medium-sized cities to which we address assistance from both the Finally, as far as the activity and presence of academic centres are concerned, as you are well aware, entrepreneurs, investors who want to locate, and anywhere on the map of the world, highly technologically advanced enterprises, are always interested in their good location and efficient connection with a good academic centre. And we're not gonna change that, no matter what kind of regulation we've made. We try to show ourselves, for example. a shared service centre. This is why we have been doing the last analyses for a year and a half and actively working with those who are already in Poland and who have made such investments, how to make their second locations not once again in Warsaw, Krakow or Wrocław, but to be in Opole or Łowicz, i.e. we have shown that there are also academic centers where students are educated in several languages, where real estate prices are slightly different and culturally the city is also attractive. And that's how we do it. If today we join this quickly with the possibility of making an additional offer, such as the one concerning the special economic zone, then I think we will achieve these goals successfully. There were also questions about creative sectors. They are indeed excluded from this law, although, as you know perfectly well, we support them in various other ways, both through special programs from the National Centre for Research and Development, very large transfers are addressed to these sectors and directly by means of programmes from the Minister of Culture and Art - they are excluded again due to Community regulations. As for Mr Meysztowicz's question concerning areas around special economic zones, this is exactly how it will be, Mr, i.e. Today actually the boards are up to the fence, and what's behind the fence is no longer of interest to anyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Management Board will be able to offer areas outside which are not in the zone which are in the vicinity of the investments carried out. As regards questions concerning the merger of the zone law - it is Mr Biernat - with spatial planning plans and the extent to which they should be coupled, here, as you know, Minister Kwieciński is the one who is responsible at the moment, firstly, for the amendment of the spatial planning law, secondly, primarily for increasing the intensity of the work on how much larger areas in Poland should be covered by such spatial planning plans, so that this spontaneous development, especially in many cities in Poland, is more... The idea is to restore urban planning in Poland at all, simply. So that's what's going on, and so this is what's going on in parallel. Asking for help...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u203	Minister, finish up. Minister of Enterprise and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: ...in providing infrastructure. These companies will be obliged, as we write in the bill, to share property. That means, among other things. the ability to invest in and supply infrastructure. Vocational schools. Today, zones are no longer host institutions, because running, being the founding body of the school is not the role of the zone, while in two special economic zones there are projects where the zone is a partner with investors operating in the zone and the local university. Two such schools are currently being set up, and, as I say, a zone company is not an institution running a school. The last two questions. First thing: Have we consulted with the marshals? Yes, we consulted with the marshals. The Council shall be composed of representatives of economic operators, Article. 11, representatives of local government units located within the area and representatives of regional councils for social dialogue. I find it hard to imagine - we talked about this with the management of zones - that the zones will not include representatives of the local government. If they don't, they won't just grow because it's impossible. [[Who's gonna report it?]] They're reporting municipal, county, voivodship... In the end, this is approved by the Zone Board. [[But does he report the mayor, the marshal?]] The mayor, the marshal, yes, sir. Minister, finish up. Minister of Enterprise and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: Yes, sir. And when it comes to mines, mining areas, there is no inclusion in the zones according to the new law. So there's no such thing. If there's an investor who... [[That's bullshit written by the minister.]] I think it's a slip of the tongue. We will try to encourage investment in the so-called. brownfields, although, as you well know, are the most difficult investment areas. But we will also try to tempt investors with these difficult terrains. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law on the promotion of new investments. This law introduces a new mechanism to support entrepreneurs in making new investments in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This support will be provided in the form of income tax exemptions and information services provided free of charge by the entities responsible for supporting new investments. New regulations are needed due to fast-paced socio-economic changes. Changes are also necessary because the support mechanism should be coordinated with the Responsible Development Strategy. The system of support designed in the act in the form of the right of the trader to obtain an income tax exemption will be an important and effective tool to encourage entrepreneurs to invest across the country. The aim of the Act is to stimulate the growth of private investment, which will contribute to: 1) the development of innovative business areas; 2) creating new, stable jobs for highly skilled workers; 3) developing new technical and technological solutions and their use in the national economy; 4) enhancing the competitiveness of manufactured products and services; 5. development of exports; 6) halting the growth of regional disparities. The proposed changes in public aid in the form of tax exemptions will be available to entrepreneurs planning to make new investments in the country, which will include the creation of a new production plant and reinvestments in accordance with Polish legislation and European Union law. Support decisions will be issued on time marked, for 10, 12 or 15 years depending on the intensity of public aid in the given voivodship. In the case of an investment carried out in an area where a special economic zone will be established on the date of entry into force of the Act, this period will be 15 years. According to Art. 14 a decision on support may be taken in respect of a new investment after it has met a number of criteria to verify whether the investment will contribute to the economic and social development of the country and region. These actions will be implemented by diversifying the conditions for entrepreneurs to obtain support. The minimum criteria for investment costs will vary depending on the size of the entrepreneur and the unemployment rate in the district appropriate for the location of the investment. The period of tax exemption resulting from the duration of the support decision will also be an element that takes account of the situation in the region. According to Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 the whole country will be divided into areas located within the administrative boundaries of the powiats. The division will take account of territorial cohesion and efficiency of management activities. Each area will have its own management function. The changes are expected to result in an increase in the rate of investment among SMEs. The proposed changes aim to enable more micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from income tax exemptions. For SMEs, separate, significantly lower quantitative criteria will be introduced, which must be met by the trader in order to receive a decision on support, and additional preferences in quality criteria. The changes made will have a very positive impact on the Polish economy, which is why the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle supports the government bill on supporting new investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill on supporting new investments, contained in print no. 2307, is a reform of the functioning of special economic zones in Poland. This reform is undoubtedly a very important movement due to the need to improve Poland's competitiveness as an investment-friendly country. We cannot afford companies to choose competitive locations over and over again in terms of investments, in the Czech Republic or Slovakia. So far, there are 14 special economic zones in Poland - administratively isolated areas for conducting business activities under preferential conditions. Investors in the SEZ can count on tax exemptions, well-armed and prepared investment areas or facilitate contacts with local government and local business and full support from local authorities. On the other hand, the SEZs reduce unemployment and accelerate the economic development of the whole region. At the end of 2016, 332 thousand jobs were found in the employment zones. employees. The SEZs have so far not been a single area - they could create their sub-zones throughout the country. According to the Act on Support of New Investments, support in the form of income tax exemption will be granted to investors throughout Poland, without having to wait a year or in extreme cases even 2 years to cover symbolic boundaries of the special economic zone. Now all of Poland is a zone. The second very important change is that today every company operating in the zone must benefit from the relief that was calculated before the start of the investment process by the end of 2026. On the basis of the new rules, the company will be 10 and 15 years old from the date of receipt of the decision to benefit from this relief and the use of the aid granted. There won't be a stiff, final date. In addition, the most important changes include the introduction of qualitative and quantitative criteria to be applied in the evaluation of the entrepreneur's proposal for a support decision. There is also a change - the current legislation requests permits for business activity in the zone. Entrepreneurs will now apply for a support decision that will allow for a future exemption from CIT or PIT. The qualitative and quantitative criteria introduced will directly affect the possibility of tax relief. Support will be granted depending on the fulfilment of the quantitative criteria - the size of investments as well as the quality. The quality criteria taken into account when providing support to entrepreneurs will be: the type of jobs created, the innovation of investments created with the participation of research and research units. The criteria will be closely linked to the sectors covered by the Responsible Development Strategy. Thanks to these changes, it is intended to accelerate economic development, especially in the previously neglected districts and municipalities, and by 2027 it is intended to create 158,3 thousand. new jobs. Investment expenditure will reach PLN 117.2 billion by then. Unfortunately, the amount necessary to invest capital, especially in developed districts with low unemployment rates, will lead to restrictions on access to redundancies. You have to realize that up to 40% business operators currently operating in zones, taking into account investment statistics, would not be allowed to operate if they requested public aid for their projects for the new rules proposed by the Act. This bill is very important for Poland and I hope that during the work in committees it will be possible to correct its shortcomings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u206	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on the promotion of new investments to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the management of a successful enterprise of a natural person. At the end of the discussion, the Sejm mistakenly referred the draft to the Sejm's Bureau, which was not in line with the proposal. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted this proposal. [[Objection.]] Because there is an objection, we will consider this objection in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters (Prints 2160 and 2340). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights discussed the draft at its meetings on 6 February and 19 March 2018. The Commission has proposed to amend and extend the provisions of the original amendment by adding paragraph. 1c and paragraph 1c. Article 1d 1 which extends the catalogue of cases and entities exempt from the application fee. These are situations such as a claim for property claims for crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes or aggression crimes, and included in the mouth. 1d: No charge shall be levied on the application for protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland or the Polish Nation referred to in Article. 53o and 53p of the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance. So, in addition to the situation where veterans or individuals who are accomplices for the protection of personal property will be exempt from the charge of a lawsuit, there are two other situations. This second situation, as can be pointed out, in practice concerns property claims, which are not close to those post-war, reparations claims, can be said. And the second case - here, too - was the analysis - the exemption, as far as the Institute of National Remembrance is concerned, concerns the recent amendment of the legislation, although I know that there are still discussions and discussions in this area and perhaps there will also be some revision of this provision. In conclusion, the committee requests that the draft be adopted in accordance with the content of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u208	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Civil Court Costs Act is a continuation amendment of the IPN Act recently adopted by the Sejm. This I.P.N. Act has caused a storm, as you know. She also issued statements by the Secretary of State of the United States on the threat of strategic partnership with Poland. Instead of dealing with our requests for the presence of American soldiers in Poland from rotating to permanent conversion, the American Congress now deals with the IPN Act. The American Jewish Committee, an organization very well deserved in lobbying for the entry of Poland, Poland's admission to NATO - lobbied for it without any conditions concerning, I don't know, reprivatization or anything else - an organization that helps us fight against the use of the Polish death camp, which recently opened an office in Warsaw, expressed regret about this law. Relations with Israel, which developed very well - and with the Jewish diaspora and the Polish-Jewish dialogue, which allows us to present Poland as a place where Jews had shelter for hundreds of years - were at the moment violently corrupted, because Poland is suspicious after this IPN Act that it wants to somehow restrict the discussion about the Holocaust, that Holocaust survivors or their children will have to translate from the statements contained in the diaries, where something is unflattering about Poland or something wrong. We're gonna have to prove to the court that these are facts, otherwise they're threatening three years in prison. Dialogue with Israel is also extremely corrupt because of this law, as is all the achievements we have had in this field over the last years. There is also the issue of historical dialogue with Ukraine, which has developed well, a great effort of clergy on both sides, John Paul. II, who spoke about this, the previous presidents of Poland and the presidents of Ukraine, who issued joint statements on this matter or jointly honoured civilian victims on both sides. This law has contributed to the fact that this historical dialogue, a difficult dialogue with the Ukrainians, has actually been completely frozen. We're not moving forward, but we're moving back. I am no longer talking about the opinions of Polish historians - from Sławomir Cenckiewicz to Andrzej Friszke - who protest against this law. But that's all, ladies and gentlemen, that's not enough for the PiS, that's not enough. To this storm that's going around this bill, the PiS decided to add gasoline to that fire, to that fire, and put it out with gasoline. This law, which we are considering today, concerns the abolition of charges for actions resulting from the IPN Act brought by organizations which have the task of defending the good name of the Polish people or the Republic of Poland included in the statute, so these organizations... This fee is now 5% , she is intended to cover legal costs, she also has some disciplinary importance that you do not sue in absurd cases, you do not sue for damages with some horrendous amounts. She disciplines the plaintiff. Now you want to put up with this discipline, and any organization that has it in its statutes will be able to file cases against anyone. I'll give you a few quotes, ladies and gentlemen. If someone, for example. He will say: I wonder if Poles can be ruled without a whip... The second quote of the same author: I created a whole lot of beautiful words, which the Polish people put in a row of idiots - said Józef Piłsudski. Another quote, which I think is known to all countries: Polish, peacock of nations you were And a parrot, and now you're someone else's maid - Slovak. Wyspianski: You had a golden horn, you had a rope. Lloyd George: Giving to Poles the Silesian industry is like giving a monkey a watch, etc. Well, if an organization considers that someone who repeats such words or phrases today uses such words, insults the Polish people and their good name, he will be able to file an unlimited lawsuit for unlimited amounts. Moreover, it is not only about matters of the Holocaust, about matters of the Second War, about camps, about those sufferings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also about the current wording concerning Poles today. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform will vote against this bill, because exemptions from costs, if these are combatants or victims of war crimes, can always be obtained in court individually. You can go to court and get relief from costs, but you can't open the box so you can do another... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...fights and hundreds of ridiculous lawsuits to flood...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u210	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski from the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Please take the floor of Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is nothing more than a continuation of the saga Mon. Unnecessary and evil law on IPN. In the famous bill criticized by all, you have already introduced, in addition to the criminal laws known to all, provisions allowing compensation and compensation for slandering the Polish people. Such a lawsuit may also be brought by social organisations. And now, in order to make it easier for those interested to bring such cases, you release them, as well as combatants and their children, from the charge of filing such a lawsuit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case. I know that you want to have as many lawsuit as possible and that everyone who's uncomfortable has to stand trial and explain that there's no reason to demand them, for example. 10 million PLN for some words thrown really not against the Polish state, but against the current power. Why are you bringing veterans into this? Why do you give this privilege to their accomplices? After all, most of the cases under consideration will be about the words spoken today, in the context of the current political situation, and I am convinced that this will have nothing to do with the veterans themselves, it will only give the opportunity for a wider group - the children of veterans - to enjoy this privilege and possibly abuse it. This is contrary to the principle of equality of citizens, because people are sorted out on those more privileged, i.e. those with a veteran in their family environment, and those who do not have such a veteran in their family. Firstly, we are dealing with this treatment of the people most deserved for our nation. Secondly, all this raises serious constitutional doubts about the violation or even breach of the constitutional principle of equality before the law. By conducting historical policies instead of future and development policies, you seek to divide citizens within a single country. Who's gonna benefit from that? Our homeland? How? The only thing that's gonna benefit from this is power. You take out difficult cases and rip out long-scarred wounds, thus allowing new generations to start the Polish-Polish war, to judge who is better, who is the worse sort of Poles. You will invest in the submitted processes, because when they are exempt from charges, there will probably be a lot of them, and the costs will have to be borne by the Polish state in such a situation. The possible win will be redirected to the goals of your own activities that isolate Poland in the international arena, to generous discretionary bonuses, taboos of inexperienced assistants and businesses such as SKOK Holding or Silver company, for non-marks conducted outside the state borders. Such actions will not only not close the mouth of citizens, but will also significantly prolong the proceedings, particularly in large cities. Everyone, including the judges, is already complaining about the length of court proceedings. This bill, exempt from any charges, and I will remind you, serve to prevent unjustified actions, will make it possible to claim a million-dollar compensation without paying anything, and the judges will have to deal with every case and most likely dismiss the actions. Anything, because the proposed law assumes that there are no grounds for doing so. Unfortunately, this is wrong logic, ladies and gentlemen. Effect? It will take the courts an extremely valuable time. As long as the situation is not normal, in the largest courts, the congestion in dealing with cases will rise to a level that hinders the normal functioning of the body and will therefore undermine the effectiveness of the courts, denying citizens the chance to deal with matters that are important to them personally. This bill is unacceptable in this form. Modern will vote against it and I encourage you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u212	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on judicial costs in civil matters. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to extend the catalogue of letters which are not subject to payment to actions in respect of property claims for the protection of personal property. The new rules will include combatants, some victims of war repression and post-war periods and their successors. Moreover, without cost, organizations whose statutory purpose is to protect the image of the Republic of Poland, the Polish nation or the patriotic struggle with the invaders, Nazism and communism will be able to start the process where the case concerns the Republic of Poland and Poles. At present, such actions are covered by a general principle whereby the levy on their effective lodging is 5% the value of the subject matter of the dispute. High Izbo! The right to prosecute the protection of personal property is one of our most important rights. However, the fees for the actions have a specific purpose. The aim is to sift people who would flood the courts with countless lawsuit cases, accusing everyone around them of violating their property. We all know that there is a category of people who are extremely sensitive to each other. There is also a category of organizations wishing to sue the whole world for not sharing a specific version of history. We must remember that a progressive reduction in the use of fees can lead to an uncontrolled increase in cases in courts and, as a result, even more slow their action. It should also be noted that the wording of the project does not allow precise determination of who will be eligible for exemption and what the word "sacrifice" means. There is no defined concept of "victim" in the project. This gives rise to certain interpretation difficulties and may hinder the application of the provisions of the Act. It also points out that the project's authors do not provide the expected costs of implementing the project, do not tell us what the financial consequences of the entry into force of these rules will be. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, we should all care about protecting the good name of the combatants - here we should bow to the designers - as well as protecting the image of Poland and the Polish nation. However, this project will not bring us closer to this goal, but it can only cause a wave of lawsuits to legally sanction one, clearly defined political version of history or at least cause such concerns in us. I think, High Izbo, Minister, that we also need to learn a lesson from this and humbly look at the experiences of recent weeks when it comes to amending the IPN Act, so that we do not duplicate certain errors that can then cost us very, very much, also visually. The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats unfortunately does not see the possibility of supporting the project in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u214	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen to the speeches of my previous speakers, it seems to me that it is appropriate to quote the rota of the vow of the Message: It seems appropriate to draw attention to the Polish state's right. The Polish reason for the state is to serve faithfully the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation, and that is what all Members have vowed. The defence of the good name of the Republic of Poland should lie at the heart of every Member. You have to go back to the text of the bill, because there are chaos and misunderstandings: no charges are levied on the application for protection of personal goods from combatants, i.e. those people who deserved in a special way the Republic of Poland. In other regulations, we guarantee support, protection, respect for their contribution to the fight for the good of the Republic, for its sovereignty and independence, and now we tear up our garments - I am talking about opposition Members - that they will be exempt from the court fee, and the issue of unequal treatment of entities is raised. So how do the laws in other laws say that the state will take special care of them? This isn't about the veterans' lawsuit on their private, property matters. Either the wrong will or the manipulation or ignorance of the text of the bill led to such speeches as we had just witnessed. Well, we have a narrowly limited scope of these actions, and it is worth it in this House to make it sound. These actions concern the protection of personal property, when the case - clearly stated - concerns the patriotic traditions of the Polish people's struggle with the invaders, Nazism and communism. Ladies and gentlemen, a little reflection. Fired from the veterans' court fees. Veterans are usually in quite a difficult material situation, because that's the reality. And there's art. 45 constitutions that talk about access to court. Access to the court does not mean that you can come to the court, but access to the court means that you can demand an effective settlement of the case brought, that you can demand a settlement of the case brought. The high judicial fee for these people is often a barrier to access to the court. So here we are dealing with the exemption of this category - veterans and subjective - of a very specific category of cases. I am also surprised that you so repeatedly emphasize the importance of NGOs on various issues, and you do not want to see the possible contribution of these organisations to the protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland. These are our allies. We should support their actions to protect the good name of the Republic of Poland. It's our business together. It's our duty. At the same time, I will allow myself to make an amendment on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice aimed at deleting point 1d from the Act. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill, along with the amendment that I tabled to the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u216	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek. I'm closing the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment we defend the veterans and we want to give them a certain privilege, but we are also talking about the successors and heirs. Have the Members of this project noticed that this gives rise to a certain inequality of citizens towards the Constitution? As you can see, the amendment of the law establishes a category of Poles who have among their ancestors veterans, therefore they have an important privilege. This is unequal treatment of Poles. Here's another thing. The sick and weak veterans, because they are generally citizens over the age of 80, have to help various types of organizations to appear in court with claims. That's why I wanted to ask you about the fee. Will its liquidation or reduction not result in [[♪ The bell ♪]] the effect that they will sue for enormous amounts without any consequences brought by organizations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u218	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Osos from the Civic Platform Club. There isn't. In that case, I would ask Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My statement does not concern the veterans, because here I have no doubts and, I think, none of us have doubts, and I think it is unnecessary that Mr Peterowicz argued otherwise. Listening to the President's statement, I have such an indisputable feeling... This statement shows that it is all so clear and obvious and that there are so many amendments to this single article. After all, there were amendments in the committee, we said about the IPN that this was a mistake, and today you are making an amendment to delete it. So it's not so obvious. I have a question for you. I think that this must be discussed calmly, without emotion. I have a question for the Minister, and basically for the applicants: Are the applicants not afraid of a huge number of trials at the expense of the Treasury? Because in the current situation in Poland, almost everyone can be blamed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that he is negative about the image or writes the appropriate wording. So I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u220	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Marcin Święcicki from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that the amendment which the Member has tabled here aims to remove some of these idiotic solutions in this law, but not all of them. Therefore, I have a question for you: Is there a civilised country somewhere that gives you the kind of powers you give to combatants and aggressors and NGOs so that you can sue around the world, sue and make them free of charges? Once again, I would like to stress that the current rules allow for the release of veterans if they cannot afford to bring such a case. But making some kind of separate category of citizens from the next veterans... Where, in what countries do such solutions occur? It's more like Turkey and Russia, not some civilized country that would... Can you give examples of countries that operate in this way? 'Cause I think this bill just [[♪ The bell ♪]] it will ridicule Poland and bring counter-productive effects to the expected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u222	I now ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't know why... Minister, the question is: Don't the current rules allow people who are in financial difficulties to be exempt from their fees? They do. On the other hand, these charges may result in no sick demands, because if someone does not pay any fees, they will demand millions of compensations. It's just completely irrational. To all this, Mr Piotrowicz says: combatants, but there are also non-governmental organisations here. Excuse me, is this just for combatants or for NGOs? You forgot to tell me that, but you're teaching me how to treat my vows. You're the last person who has the right to talk about it, you. The Communist prosecutor won't tell me how to behave in relation to the Polish state. And remember that for the rest of your life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u224	I ask you not to scream, sir. I would like to ask Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! None of us have any doubts about the exemption of veterans from court fees in property claims, the protection of personal property. Absolutely, it's undeniable, and don't even suspect us. On the other hand, I ask Members of the applicants to answer the question of why legal persons, organisational units are really used. Have you caused too little chaos, confusion or unpleasant situations so far that you are still taking on more absurd records and waiting again for their fatal consequences? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u226	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Mr. Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One question has been addressed to the Ministry of Justice, so I'll limit myself to it. The project isn't a government project. It's a parliamentary project. The question is whether, in fact, two questions were asked by Mr Meysztowicz. First of all, can you no longer be exempted from the legal costs of the person making the claims set out in this bill? Of course you can. It's a rhetorical question, so the answer is obvious. Under certain conditions, which generally concern the level of wealth of the person asking for it, the natural person, the legal person, another organisational unit, because the law provides for the possibility of exemption from judicial costs for all entities having judicial capacity. Of course, it can be exempted from legal costs, although it is clear that the removal of the stage of application for exemption from legal costs facilitates the enforcement of claims and in many places of the law on judicial costs in civil matters - this is not the first time - it is expected to be exempt from all costs or, as in this case, from the fees arising from the law, such as maintenance claims or other claims, e.g. Employee claims. And you could always ask yourself, "Couldn't poor people stop at the fact that you could be relieved of costs... It could be stopped, but the legislator has some relations, some lawsuit, some proposals are being dealt with in a special way for specific social reasons - maintenance claims, employment claims or claims that are currently being discussed in the High House. Second question: Doesn't the need to pay a court fee adequately prevent us from bringing unfounded actions, or isn't this the kind of project that we are opening, the High House doesn't open a door too wide to bring proceedings that are not necessarily justified? The exemption from legal costs, in particular partial costs, is not an institution which opens the doors of the courts to unfounded claims, because it is only a certain element of the costs which each person is required to bear in the process, especially with partial exemption from legal costs in the form of a charge on the application. There are other charges, and this was discussed yesterday at the committee meeting, such as experts' fees, there are fees on appeals, there are different types of charges falling within the scope of judicial costs and there are, at last, the costs of legal representation, lawyers' and lawyers' costs. Therefore, the mere existence of an exemption from the charge does not mean that the person making such an action may not count... or, in fact, she should be faced with the need to pay, because an unjustified action means, first, that the costs other than the charge on the application must be borne, secondly, that the adversary must be paid in the event that the action is dismissed for an excessive amount of the costs of the lawyer. Or counseling. Therefore, we are not here discussing unjustified opening of doors to courts, but a certain fee, a certain facilitation in a certain category of cases for social reasons, seems to be justified as far as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u228	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 20 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u229	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my parliamentary statement, I would like to remind you of the story of the beginning of the existence and functioning of the new investment carried out over 30 years from the state budget, which is the dam and reservoir in Świnna Poręba. Everything points to the fact that this year's season at Lake Mucharski, because it is mentioned, will already be available to anglers, and the first WOPR water patrols will appear on the flood. I think that today, at the beginning of this beautiful, magnificent investment, it is worth mentioning in a few sentences the history of its implementation, as well as the price that has never been estimated, which the inhabitants of the flood zone and the areas adjacent to the coastline of the current flooding had to pay. At the start of the first work, existing production facilities and other jobs were liquidated there. All investments in any infrastructure have also been banned, significantly reducing the level and comfort of life of the inhabitants, thus depriving them of their ability to develop and take their own initiatives. Many of them had to live and live in a great construction site over the years to finally leave their homes and start their lives in designated areas. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to talk about drama because I want to talk about success. Returning to the substance, I would like to remind you that this investment started in 1986 and was financed by the state budget until 1999. From 2004, I apologize, from 2000 to 2004 by decision of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland was financed by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which was not only insufficient, but also chaotic and incompatible with real needs. This gave neither hope nor opportunity to accomplish this task. The proverbial light in the tunnel turned out to be only a breakthrough year of 2015, in which, at the initiative of the Polish Parliament, adopted the Act of 3 April on the establishment of a programme for the financing of the construction of the water reservoir in Świnna Poręba for the years 2006 to 2010. It sets out four key tasks, i.e. construction of the tank, reconstruction of roads, transfer of railway lines and protection of water catchment areas, and many other undefined investments: reconstruction of the building of the child's home, reconstruction of the historic manor house in Dąbrówka, construction of social premises for displaced residents, reconstruction of sports grounds and many other strategic tasks. Despite my assessment of the well-designed programme, the lack of stable funding, the increase in labour costs and construction materials, long-term tendering procedures, selection procedures and the duration of construction technological processes excluded the completion of this investment in 2010. Therefore, on 1 April 2011, the Parliament extended the implementation period of this programme until 2013. For the same reasons I mentioned earlier, the Sejm set another deadline for 2015. This was the last year of financing this investment under this programme, but it was not the year of its completion, because it remained to be done, among others. wet start of firewalls and tank skulls, power plant start, demolition of asphalt roads and two bridges, sealing of the control and injection gallery at the floor stage and construction of two local roads. Therefore, in order to ensure the completion of these tasks, the Sejm adopted on 13 May 2016 a draft law on the completion of the construction of the tank in Świnna Poręba, securing the means for carrying out these tasks. Finally, the total cost of this investment closes to PLN 2210 million. Everything indicates that the next season over the flood will be the first available for anglers, tourists and water sports enthusiasts. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Those are the events that have stuck in my memory. I've decided to share them with you. At the same time, I encourage all ladies and gentlemen to visit this region, whose development we have all had an impact on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u230	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was with sadness that we received the news of the death of Mr. Francis Szelwicki's irresistible memory. Let me zoom in on his silhouette. Franciszek Szelwicki was born on 2 January 1941 in Czarnokonce Małych, now Ukraine. Graduated from Świdnica Mechanical Engineering. He worked as a mechanic in various industrial plants, and the longest, i.e. in the 1960s, 1989, in the Industrial Equipment Departments in Nysa. In September 1980, he joined the "Solidarity'. In 1981, he became a delegate at the First General Meeting of NSZZ Delegates, the Solidarity Region of Silesia of Opole, where he is elected to the regional management board and to the delegate to the First National Meeting of Delegates of NSZZ of Solidarity. He's a member of the national union committee. In his martial law he was interned between 14 December 1981 and 24 July 1982. From August 1982 to 1989 he co-founds underground publishing movement, he is a colporteur of press and underground publishing, including among others. Tygodnik Mazowsze and the War Signals. In 1983 Franciszek Szelwicki is involved in co-creation and then until 1987 in the pastoral ministry of people working in Otmuchów, among others. in 1985 to the first monument in Poland, Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, who arises in Otmuchów. The first International Conference of Human Rights in Cracow-Mistrzejowice takes part in the first International Conference of Human Rights on 25 and 27 August 1988. After 1989 he was a delegate to the next general meetings of delegates of the Silesia Opole region. Between 1992 and 1997 he was the chairman of the Opole Solidarity Council, a delegate to the national convention of delegates and a member of the national commission of the union. Between 1997 and 2001 he was a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of the 3rd term of office from the list of social movements of AWS. He retired in 2002. His entire activity was filled with concern for the good of Poland. On 23 August 2007, the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński was awarded the Officer's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. He died on March 16th at the age of 77. His funeral will take place next Thursday in Lasowice near Otmuchów in Opole region. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u232	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Anczynski will now speak. Excuse me, Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u233	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Andrzej Zamoyski, chancellor of the great Crown, on the three hundredth anniversary of his birthday - such a motto was placed on the pre-titled reprint page of Andrzej Zamoyski's collection of court rights, which was developed and published on the initiative of Mr Jerzy Piotrowski, the manager of the Small Town Museum in Bieżun, a branch of the Mazovian Village Museum in Sierpc, thanks to the financial commitment of the state of Jolanta and Dariusz Grabikowski and the State of Regina and Henryk Grześkiewicz. These countries are with us, they are present at the gallery and we cordially greet them. [[Applause]] Andrzej Hieronim Franciszek Zamoyski coat of arms Jelita wrote a rich card in the history of the Republic of Poland as a patriot, a magnate with considerable wealth, a writer, a reformer and an extraordinary politician. He lived in a period of great political and economic shocks that struck the Republic in the 18th century, never remaining passive towards them. He was born on 30 September 1717 in Gniew as the third son of Michał Zdzisław, the hunter of the great crown, Lublin voivode, the sixth chief of Zamość and Anna of the Departments, the chelmian voivodeship. In 1742, the estate was divided after the deceased parents, thanks to which Andrzej Zamoyski received the so-called. I'm going to go second, including the Kutnian, Kutnian and part of the Berestec. He left behind a lot of material traces in Bieżun, expanded the residence by rebuilding the palace and the park device with the largest canal in Europe located on the foundation axis. Today, both the palace and its surroundings are in agony and require urgent conservation intervention. He also founded the first brick church. The three hundredth anniversary of the birth of the aristocrat is an excellent opportunity to remind his most important work, which was prepared and submitted in the Seym in 1778, was a draft of a new law, which actually contained the concept of a thorough state recovery. Its full title is: The collection of judicial rights under the Constitution of 1776 by J.W. Andrzei Zamoyski, Ex-Kancer of the Crown, Knight of the Order of the White Eagle, arranged, y at Seym in 1778. served and passed into history as the Zamoyski codex. Zamoyski's codex was a unique work, extremely modern and progressive for those times. Among other things, largely taken over from the demands of the humanitarian doctrine of that time, the rules removed the arbitraryness of the penalty. Following the rejection of the code by the Sejm in 1780. Zamoyski withdrew from public life. The ideas contained in his work were only introduced into the Constitution on 3 May 1791. Thank you very much for your attention, and I am handing over the collection of court rights to your marshal Andrzej Zamoyski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u234	Thank you, Member. I now ask the floor of Mr Aleksandr Mr Forczyński from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I do not see your Member, so please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u235	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are, as you know, in the regime of action adopted by the Sejm of 1 April 2016 on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. In the Act there was a certain time for its execution by local authorities, and in cases where they did not do so, the voivode may, after obtaining the opinion of the IPN, issue a replacement order giving the street a name in accordance with the decounization law. Various local governments around this law were organized, many took advantage of the opportunity to change the historical and symbolic faces of their small homelands. However, too much was conservative, resisting only because the initiator of the change was Law and Justice. There have been local governments - and their hosts - who, even though they themselves do not have historically too obvious identity roots in the recent history of Poland, did not want to follow this lead and offer to give honorary names to heroes of national armed acts, science or art - they simply did not take advantage of it. They went into total axiological and historical unquality, supposedly referring to names from many, many centuries ago, or going towards completely non-existent, giving names: Vacation, Cycling, Transverse, Gooseberry. So having a choice, for example. Anders, Sosabowski, Maczek, Haller and many, many other great people, were selected for the levellings, raspberries and poppies. At the same time, local government officials say: But the people in the consultation wanted it that way. We know that participation in such consultations does not have to be representative of the opinion of the whole community, and that is not the point, but whether we want the symbolic space of our cities and villages to speak to us. If so, based on what values and figures? I refer in this speech to the city of Krosno Odrzańskie and the city of Gubin. It is the land of Lubuskie, also known as the western land and the restored land. A land that needs to be rooted in identity like a canyon. And the bountyists of these cities are proposing such a total lack of quality in naming. I think that most of the locals would like the heroes of their streets to be giants of spirit, character and integrity of attitude, intellect or undisputed creative achievement. Why, then, do we plant grasshoppers and roses around these streets, squares, squares, instead of giving our little homelands expressive anchors in the soil of love for our homeland and the heroism of her daughters and sons? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u236	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Bąk, Club Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R.]] Could I have a little quieter at the gallery, please? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, stated that he wanted all his countrymen to join in celebrating the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. In order to do so, it is important to lean on all social groups and to make a fair assessment of the contribution to regaining freedom and independence. Poles had to work hard to save Polishness for more than once. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the inhabitants of the Polish village. As long as farmers do not protest, they do not scream about their harm, they may not be dealt with, and even in the majesty of the law, limit their freedom and add burdens. Alienation and self-adoration of some governments appear quickly, so it's hard to be surprised. And I, contrary to this dormantness, alienation and myopia, would like to remind you of what was in the Polish countryside and what is today. There, a beautiful Polish culture was born in Polish manor houses and peasant houses, which had and has our character - Polish and universal. The village has produced many poets, writers, scholars of great format, priests and politicians. The village's sons went to battle to defend their homeland and grew to the rank of national heroes of these famous, recorded by historians, and quiet in their greatness, which only family, parish or whole village remembers. In the village there was a solidarity between nobles and peasants, visible in all national uprisings and in rural solidarity during communist oppression. Finally there they taught their children respect for the elders, to bread, to the earth, because it is ours and God's, holy. Prayers were fervently raised to God when Polish blood was pouring out and when the enemy tried to root us out of our tradition. There was always someone who centered a crowd around and told ancient stories, raised heroic time and taught the truth about the world. There the priest reminded us of the origins of spiritual joy in man and how to entrust his share and misery to God and his homeland. Finally, in the Polish countryside different than in our day people understood that the human law, established, is to emerge from the law of God and natural. A man with a righteous, simple heart will not understand today's recognition of a law separate from moral principles, which is that what is written in the laws is to be, even if it threatens the defenseless and condones the honor of the legislators, dehumanizes man and humanizes animals. So I declare that these problems are related to the beautiful side of Polish village life. I would like to remind the High House, and may also revive this thought, so that the village becomes our common cause, just as our whole country, Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u238	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Man is a sacred thing that no one is allowed to hurt - that is what Stefan Żeromski wrote in one of his works. It would be good for everyone to think so, although since our great writer draws attention to this fact, it means that his experience has shown that man's position may be compromised. But isn't everything around us human creation? Isn't everything he creates meant to serve him and make life easier? Zeromski's attention seems so obvious that it is difficult to discuss with her. It's up to a man to decide everything. Sadly, too, there are misunderstandings and conflicts and, like conflicts, also victims of these conflicts. Of course, there are appropriate state institutions that solve these conflicts, but they remain the result of pain, grief, depression causing great changes in the victim's psyche and remaining time throughout life. Such people must be helped, for in the face of sad and unexpected events they are most often powerless, helpless, and desperate. People like that can't find a place on earth. The tragedy of this social group has been noticed by the Member States of the Council of Europe and of the European Union and has therefore been adopted on 22 February on an international day of victims of crime, on which, since 1988, particular attention has been paid to the rights of victims. Also in our country, the position of the victim was respected, as the celebration of the above-mentioned law-law of 12 February 2013. The Polish Sejm entered into the calendar in Poland. This very important date for the victims is remembered by all NGOs who in their statutes have written down helping victims of violence. The day of victims of crime is designed to serve victims of violence, remind them of threats from criminal backgrounds, sensitize all people to the constant danger and remind them of it. Each of us can be a victim, and that is why there is a huge need to develop a system that will protect the interests of decent people, who will effectively provide comprehensive assistance, including legal and psychological support, if necessary. That's the way it is in life, until the victim's problem has touched us personally, we take this case very lightly. It is only when we become victims ourselves that we begin to understand how much we still have to do to get back, at least in part, what we lost as a result of the crime. Only then do we notice how much the state still has to do to secure the victim's right to a decent life. Unfortunately, the state administration, which is regrettable, is not fully responding to the needs of the victims. That is why it is important to note how important NGOs play a role, which still remind us that the victim needs care to a much greater extent than before. Today, this care is secured by members of NGOs, because they are people who are extremely sensitive to human harm. I think I will make little mistake if I say that such people are an integral part of the life of the victim, they support in the fight for justice, for the detection and exemplary punishment of the guilty and for regaining mental balance after the loss of a loved one. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's almost a month after February 22. This day has passed like any other. It is a pity that there is so little talk about him in the media. It is on this day that we can emphasize the holiness of man and work, especially in young people, the sensitivity to human harm in the broadest possible sense. I think that when we think of a man as being holy, we should treat him as a command that cannot be broken even for the noblest reasons, because, as Mieczysław Wirashko wrote, who leaves another man in need, renounces humanity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u240	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This morning, I received a long - awaited message. In Puławy a monument representing two soldiers was removed: Soviet and Polish from 1. The Polish Army Army. A powerful, red sandstone monument with the inscription "The Heroes of the Joint Fight for the Liberation of Puławy" was placed in 1987 on the site of an even greater symbol of enslavement, which was a monument dedicated to the heroes of the Soviet army who died in the field of glory. For a long time the efforts of patriotic and independent communities to make the monument, commonly called the monument of Bolka and Lolka, disappear from the public space of the city. On 30 May 2016, the Council of Puławy adopted its position on a proposal and by the votes of the Councillors of Law and Justice. In this position, among others, it was pointed out. for the fact that the First Army of the Polish Army colonel. Zygmunt Berling was not subject to the Polish government in exile, but to the Soviet command and implemented the Soviet state's right. The council also indicated that the seat of the district public security office, where Polish patriots were murdered, was in the vicinity of the monument in the past, and that the monument should be removed out of respect for them. Despite the strenuous efforts, the issue of the removal of the monument was prolonged, mainly due to the procedural path connected with not admitting anyone to the ground on which the monument was placed. The breakthrough occurred only after the adoption of the Act of 22 June 2017 amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. In the justification of this law, the monument in Puławy is listed as one of 13 examples of objects, from a group of several hundred on a national scale, meeting the criteria of the law, which as a symbol of the totalitarian system should be removed. Finally, Lublin Voivode Przemysław Czarnek issued a decision ordering the removal of this monument. 20 March 2018 is an important day for the Puławy community and the region. This is a symbolic day, which marks the next step on the road leading to a break from the infamous past. The monuments on the Polish land are to be and will be placed to heroes and so be it in Puławy, let this free space finally become a place which honors patriots, those who shed blood for the free, independent, proud Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u242	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On March 16 at the cemetery in Szumów I had the opportunity to pay tribute to the heroes of the Polish-Bolshevik war in 1920. After nearly 100 years to the grave of 201 soldiers. The infantry volunteer regiment in Szumów was hit by the remains of 10 soldiers of this regiment discovered in the autumn of last year at Andrzejew. This was possible thanks to the initiative of the Foundation of the.Honor, Homeland and Association of the Vienna 1939 and the involvement of the municipalities Andrzejewo and Szumowo. What was 201. Volunteer infantry regiment? In 1920 Poland, which was reborn after 123 years of captivity, faced a huge challenge. Putting the Bolshevik dam down seemed like a job over forces of the newly reborn Polish army. The Council of State Defense decided to set up a voluntary army to assist the military already fighting. Polish patriots responded to the call of their homeland and General Józef Haller gave an order to form a voluntary division. It was made up of 201 just now. Volunteer infantry regiment. These 10 murdered soldiers were actually boys, the oldest of them was 25 or 30 years old. I know that from an anthropological study. They were scouts, students, students - the future of our homeland, who sacrificed their lives without hesitation, protecting the retreat of their regiment in the Battle of Płuchratka and Paprocia. I said they were murdered, it wasn't a slip. They didn't fall in battle. During the exhumation, the message of the local population was confirmed that one of our soldiers was shot in the back of the head and the other Bolsheviks were beaded. From the perspective of the Polish-Soviet war, the death of these 10 boys seemed to be only a minor episode, but in fact confirms this, what a terrible threat we were facing at the time. Thanks to the heroism of our ancestors of Europe, the wave of communism did not flood. The West could live and even live in the blissful unawareness of the danger it missed. We Poles approach history in a unique way. We know what we owe our ancestors and what we owe them. Thank God, this knowledge also passes to our youngest generations, as I saw at the ceremony. I would like to thank the scout delegation from Skarżyska-Kamienna who came to Szumów to say goodbye to my friend Kazimierz Lech, a 15-year-old young man from Kamienna, who died in the battle of Płuchratka and Paprocia. The age of one of the victims was estimated to be 15 years, and it was most likely the remains of a friend of Kazimierz's. I thank the students from the primary school in Szumów for the long-term care of the grave of the soldiers 201. Volunteer Infantry Regiment, as well as all flagship posts of schools participating in the ceremony. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The number of volunteers in 1920 was scouts or was derived from Boy Scouts. Scouts played a great role already before, during the struggle for the shape of our reborn homeland during the Greater Poland Uprising, Silesian Uprisings or Lviv's defences, and later during the years of occupation. High Izbo! Referring to the role of Scouts in the history of Poland, I would like to say that on March 10th the 25th Scout evening devoted to the creator of the Scout's Cross Fr. Dr. Scout Kazimierz Lutosławski. It is very comforting that this well-deserved organization, which still raises new generations of Polish patriots, is so eagerly attracted to young people. 11,000. instructors, including 6,000. teamwork, constantly working on training the right values in young people. Each instructor as a volunteer acts, raises, teaches and shows what is important in life. Scouting is a treasure we should take care of. The activity of instructors has brought and continues to bring invaluable benefits to our homeland and society. I believe that they should be more appreciated and that central and local authorities should be more supportive of the organisation's activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-20-sejm-60-1.u244	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 21 March 2018, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 49]]
