ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's proceedings Mr Krystian Jarubas, Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Mr Piotr Luke Babiarz and Mr Marcin Duszek. The first part of the session will be Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krystian Jarubas and Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u2	Dear Members, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - also at 3 p.m. 10, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10.45, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Energy and the Treasury - hour 11.15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Legal notice - hour. 12 or immediately after the conclusion of an earlier meeting of the Legislative Commission, - Health-- hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Infrastructure - hour 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Foreign Affairs - hour 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 16, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 4:30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 18. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Team of Lviv Friends - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: UNESCO World Heritage Site - 3 p.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Inland navigation - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Marine Wind Energy - hour 15, - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Tourism - hour 17, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 5:30. Thank you kindly. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u3	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events, - amending the Law on Restructuring and the Code of Administrative Procedure, - to limit trade on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days, - amending certain laws to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities. The reports shall be printed in 2174, 2172, 2149 and 2151 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law on specific arrangements for organising the session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time of the answer to an additional question. The first question will be asked by Barbara Bartus and Jerzy Polaczek, the Law and Justice Club, on government support for young people in obtaining housing, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction. Please, Mrs Bartus is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The scheme ends with a residence for young people, and the expected residence+ programme enters into force. This programme is of great interest. This apartment+ programme is a government program to build affordable apartments for rent with the possibility of obtaining property. The residential premises will be built on real estate owned by local government units, the Treasury or companies with its participation. Rent apartments under this scheme. Accommodation+.. are to be very attractive. The programme is addressed by all social groups, but the important task of this programme is to improve the situation of young people, young Polish families, as well as to increase the mobility of Poles. Getting such an apartment from this program, this very attractive apartment can make it possible to decide not only about changing the place of residence, but also about making it easier to change jobs. That is why I would like to ask about the progress of this program, because the interest is very high. But I also want to ask about cooperation with local governments, because I hear that this program doesn't move so quickly, because often local governments do, point to the implementation of this real estate program, which is not attractive. So the question to the Minister is: Are local governments willing to cooperate? Therefore, the question is: When young people, not just young people, can count [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the first apartments from the program. Accommodation+ and where? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u5	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Justyna Wing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the National Housing Programme is highly interested in both domestic and foreign markets. In November I personally had the pleasure of representing the government of the Republic of Poland and talking about this programme in the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations during the meeting of the Housing and Property Management Committee. It was there that representatives of other European governments, as well as governments outside our continent, from outside our part of the world, became interested in this programme. The program, as perfectly the High Chamber knows, has started, is implemented in two components. One of them is BGK Real Estate. The same applies to the element of this programme implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure concerning KZN. Let me just remind you that when it comes to the National Housing Programme, which deserves to be emphasized, and I would like to point out that it is a continuation of support for young families and young people, perhaps in a slightly different form than it was in the framework of the National Housing Programme, which also enjoyed very much interest, support for the Polish authorities for this very important element, which is access to their own dwelling. The programme was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 27 September 2017. As I was saying, one of its elements is the housing+ package, where housing investments are carried out to meet the housing needs of low-income families, i.e. not only young people, but also people who have a problem with access to their housing, because their income does not allow them to make a financial commitment in the form of credit for the purchase of real estate, as well as having a problem with renting real estate, because their income is too low for them to afford it. And that's what we talk about very often: this is a gap that has not been supported in any way by action and specific initiatives or in legislative form. It is worth noting the complexity of the programme, within which apartments are offered tailored to the individual's living situation, that is, what the Member has said is about young people, what I have drawn attention to, i.e. availability for families, so it is a broad social cross-section, not in terms of perhaps defined, clearly defined criteria at the moment, but rather an attempt to adapt the housing offered to the needs of the municipality and the territory concerned. The government's most important partner with regard to this component is, of course, local government units. The interest is very high. Local governments have several instruments at their disposal to support or cooperate with the State authorities in the implementation of housing investments. The municipalities may cooperate with the newly established national housing resource, which is intended to collect the land of the State Treasury. These lands will be and are already being built as part of this program. 77 letters of intent with municipal authorities have already been signed. It is expected that around 6 000 will be created as part of the implementation of this will documented by these letters of intent. apartments. For example, three investment agreements concluded with Łomża, Szerzyn and Zakliczyn can be mentioned. Municipalities, as well as other entities, may contribute land to a special purpose vehicle set up jointly with BGK Real Estate, which provides financing of investments from investment funds managed within the BGK group. Currently, the following investments are in implementation: Biała Podlaska - 186 apartments, the expected completion date is the second quarter of 2018; Jarocin - 366 apartments, the expected completion date is the first quarter of 2018; Gdynia - 171 apartments, the expected completion date is the fourth quarter of 2018; Wałbrzych - 215 apartments, the expected completion date is the first quarter of 2019; Pruszków - 329 apartments, the expected completion date is the second quarter of 2019; Kępno - 36 apartments, the expected completion date is the third quarter of 2018; Katowice - 505 apartments, the expected completion date is the third quarter of 2020. In addition, BGKN is preparing investments that ensure the construction of the next, about 15 thousand. apartments. In addition, municipalities can cooperate with local social housing associations by investing in social housing for tenants with fixed income limits, [[♪ The bell ♪]] without any other apartment. To sum up, as part of the various measures provided for in the package, the realization of housing investments is ongoing, resulting in approximately 13.5 thousand. apartments, and about 21 thousand. The next one is in preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u8	Thank you very much, Minister, for this range of answers, which is related to the issue that we are discussing here with Mrs Bartus. As the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction indicated, by 2030. Poland is expected to achieve average housing availability per 1000 people from 363 to 435. To this end, approximately 2.5 million apartments should be built in the next few years. And in addition, I would like to ask the Minister about the expected financial expenditure for the implementation of this programme, e.g. in 2018 or 2019 and possibly forms of support also from the Ministry for those municipalities which are simply involved in the implementation of this programme, by signing the relevant agreements or by undertaking investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have another additional question: Where can we look for reliable information about the possibility of reporting to this program? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Should you contact local governments, or maybe the voivods should coordinate such a programme of information...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u11	...about those apartments that will be available?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u12	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u13	Indeed, the statistics are not positive for us, sir. That's what we should call it. And I think that this has primarily led to the determination of the previous governments and the current government to look at housing programmes and take decisive action in this area. The National Housing Programme has many elements in it to definitely make this housing availability better, because it means in practice not only better statistics, but also that Polish society will develop rather than go abroad. Financial support is extremely important, but I draw attention to the fact that it is an innovative programme, as I mentioned among others. in Geneva, because we all know that not only housing needs but also in other areas are far more than financial opportunities for them. The municipalities have so far received support from the Ministry of Infrastructure as regards the preparatory, investment process, with regard to the possibility of proper targeting for the preparation of estimates of operations and, above all, it is very important, a query has been made regarding the properties at the State Treasury's disposal. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that companies from the State Treasury, such as companies from the capital group PKP SA or the Polish Post, have joined the programme, and I am convinced that this government led by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki will devote very much attention to housing problems and will also address the subject in a comprehensive way. Regarding information, access to information, we invite you to contact the Ministry of Infrastructure about what has been happening so far and what has happened. And we had such contact at the last conference organized by the Ministry of Infrastructure with representatives of local authorities directly involved in the implementation of this programme. This showed what the rank is, and in general the scope of this event showed that this contact with municipalities at the working level and in the current manner was established. In addition, there are websites, both the BGKN website and the KZN website, where information can also be obtained on an ongoing basis, as I said, we are available for both telephone and e-mail contact. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u14	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik and Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, on the proceedings of the Minister of Finance regarding the disclosure of the perpetual rights of the State Treasury to real estate, concerning which the State Treasury had in the past paid compensation to its former owners. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The first question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the government's conduct regarding the implementation of the law, the implementation of the Law of 9 April 1968 on the making of perpetual entries for the Treasury on the basis of international agreements on the settlement of financial claims. I wanted to ask what the administration is doing to reverse this negative trend, that there is information that there are some irregularities that are being taken over by people who are not allowed to do so, what the government is doing to remedy such situations, not just to deal with the sensations that appear here and there. I wanted to ask how the system of disclosure of the rights of the State Treasury is organised in the Ministry of Finance in the eternal books. I also wanted to ask you who is personally responsible in the management of the Ministry of Finance for matters relating to the disclosure of the rights of the State Treasury in perpetual books. From a number of interpellations which I directed to the Minister of Finance, and this is also confirmed by the case law of both the Constitutional Court and the courts, it appears that the right of the State Treasury to disclose the right of the State Treasury to property in the perpetual book prejudices the mere fact of payment of compensation. It doesn't matter if this compensation was claimed by the former owner against the State of which he is a citizen or not. I therefore ask: Why does the Minister of Finance not decide to disclose these rights, but only make these decisions subject to action by other entities? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u16	Mr Paweł Bańkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. How many proceedings are currently underway by the Ministry of Finance regarding the transfer to the Treasury of property rights for which compensation has been granted? How many cases were there? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the decisions issued by the Minister of Finance since the entry into force of the Law of 9 April 1968 until now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u18	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. This is an extremely important issue, affecting matters related to property rights, safeguarding the interests of the Treasury, the tasks of the Ministry of Finance and the tasks of other bodies. At first, a brief explanation. The provisions of the Act referred to by the Members, namely the Act of 9 April 1968, on making perpetual entries to the Treasury on the basis of international agreements on the regulation of financial claims, are of a subsidiary, complementary and secondary nature in relation to the provisions of national laws or other laws on the basis of which the State took possession of property, including immovable property, at that time. It is only the nationalisation of real estate or other property that gives rise to the obligation of proper compensation. Thus, without nationalisation of real estate, it would not be necessary to compensate foreign natural and legal persons for the loss of ownership of certain property and, consequently, the conclusion of indemnisation arrangements. The acquisition of a particular property under various national laws led, in principle, to the inclusion of the State Treasury as owner in its eternal book. The law in question is not used to take over property belonging to the State Treasury. It is intended to enable the permanent books of the State Treasury to be entered as the owner of the real estate in the event that such an entry has not been made on the basis of other nationalisation provisions and the property has been covered by the effects of the systems of epidemnisation, compensation has been paid on their basis. The decisions of the Minister of Finance on this basis are not used to take over the property, but merely confirm that such acquisition took place, took place. There was also a question about disclosure of property rights. It is worth noting that the Minister of Finance is not competent to disclose the rights of the State Treasury to real estate. According to the Act of 21 August 1997 on real estate management, a body representing the State Treasury in matters of property management is the senior, carrying out tasks in the field of government administration, and the bodies representing local government units are their implementing bodies. It is their responsibility to regulate the legal status of the property. These bodies include ensuring that the ownership of the State Treasury is properly regulated in relation to certain properties, including those for which compensation has been paid in the past on the basis of indemnisation arrangements. It should be stressed that the adoption of a decision under the 1968 Act requires a detailed, multi-stage investigation. Several long-term legal proceedings are often necessary in one case. Formal legal conditions relating to the essential part of administrative proceedings, which is to ensure the active participation of the parties, are a major obstacle. In matters of the systems, this element is particularly complex in practical implementation, because the data on pages, i.e. about persons who were parties to the rights covered by the agreements, come from 1946 and 1972 and concern persons who resided outside Poland. This translates into low efficiency under the 1968 Act. In addition, I will also provide some information on the state of work of the Ministry of Finance. The diagnosis of the current state of completion of tasks related to the implementation of the 1968 Act shows that negligence is the result of a lack of documentation on the implementation of the systems. This documentation allows to determine to whom and for which property compensation has been granted on the basis of a given agreement. By 1989, until the end of the period of the Polish People's Republic, this issue had not been resolved in a definitive manner, there was no complete documentation of the implementation of the agreements. These omissions also took place after 1989. Between 2014 and 2017, the employees of the Ministry of Finance took action to obtain from the States Parties the documentation of the implementation of these agreements. Despite major obstacles, these documents were subsequently copied and brought to Poland. The number of pages of archive documentation that has been collected is estimated at hundreds of thousands. In the recent period, especially in the last years of 2016 and 2017, it has been possible to gain such an archival collection as could not be collected both in the period of the Polish People's Republic and after 1989, and especially before the period when these actions were intensified, i.e. before 2014, especially in the years 2016 and 2017. Changes in this state of affairs in the Ministry of Finance illustrate the number of declarative decisions issued to establish the transfer of real estate to the State Treasury in connection with international agreements. This is explained as follows: for the period 1968 to 1981 such decisions were 110, between 1981 and 1997 no such decisions, between 1997 and 2007 there were 144 decisions, between 2007 and 2016 there were 318, and in 2017 alone there were 51 decisions, a total of 623. This table shows a significant increase in the number of cases handled in the recent period. In 2016, a work improvement plan was developed, which was implemented and improved, and more human resources were dedicated to its implementation. With regard to the question of handling tasks, i.e. handling the indemnisation process, the Ministry of Finance is currently moving from the Director-General's office to the Legal Department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u20	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have presented a statement here, which is simply a sort of spychology. They say that the Minister of Finance, although the 1968 Law expressly obliges him to do so, is inappropriate in the case, only someone else is competent, i.e. a local government unit. Let me remind you that if the Minister of Finance had done what he should have done, there would have been no problems in Warsaw or other cities in Poland. You showed a good feeling about how the situation improved in 2017 and about the number of cases handled. Please note that if the Minister continues to work this way - I do not know, probably the government - then the symbol of the government's work and efficiency will be 153. Please note that the number of cases you disclose on your websites exceeds 8300, and if we take 51 cases a year, we need 153 years to handle them. Some of us might see it coming. Minister, if there is a situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you yourself say that this decision is a declaratory one, how many requests have you filed for entry in the eternal book of these 8300 cases...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u22	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u23	...which are on the website? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u24	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u25	Thank you so much for asking. These are very important things that are the tasks of the whole administration. There is no doubt that it is extremely important to organise a whole system that will allow the interests of the State Treasury to be secured. The Ministry of Finance performs its tasks, we also carry out work to regulate this broadly understood system, because very often we deal with real estate that we do not really know about. So you need to organize, review and digitize all documentation related to the payment of compensation, also to be familiar with the complete information about where these properties are located, in which city, in which village. This really requires a full study. We know the duties of the Ministry of Finance. We know the responsibilities of the old man in this regard. It should be taken into account that in fact the whole administration must do its job, and we are aware that it is actually extremely important for the interests of the Treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Agnieszka Ścigaj and Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz club15, asked about the number of companies and the amount of the VAT refund due to them, which was suspended due to the duration of the tax office's audit in 2017, taking into account the division by voivodeship. Question for the Minister of Finance. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u27	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! More and more businesses are reporting to our offices who are complaining of lengthy tax checks. The checks have in some cases been ongoing since the beginning of 2017 and have not yet been completed and the deadlines for their completion have been rescheduled. This also involves delaying the payment of the VAT due to such a company. Such an example is ATMO from New Trade Fair, which is controlled from February 2017 until now and at that time did not receive VAT refund, which caused people to be released and liquidity was lost. At the same time, the government talked about the recovery of VAT of 30 billion. Minister! How many companies are currently in the course of tax checks that have been dragged from 2017 to 2018, so that they have not been paid the VAT refund due to these companies? What is the total amount of VAT whose payment was withheld in 2017 due to ongoing checks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u28	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Paweł Cybulski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u29	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers! Firstly, I would like to point out that the National Tax Administration is an administration operating in a new structure, in a new form and in accordance with the new rules from 1 March 2017. Of course, we share your concerns, we understand the concerns of entrepreneurs, parliamentarians, we understand the concerns of everyone concerned. We are an organization that is an organization of social responsibility. This is due to the main objectives that were set when the National Tax Administration was created. It is therefore also our concern. This is also our concern when it comes to the problem of withholding VAT refunds. But as you know, this is clearly due to a very complex situation, a difficult situation that often affects those who take part consciously or unconsciously in the so-called. tax carousels or so-called "tax carousels." difficult controls. It is also important to note that the problem is so complex that the tax administration has taken over cases that have been initiated by the earlier tax authorities. These cases were based on the 2012-2015 methodology. Of course, it was a wrong methodology and, as you pointed out here also yesterday, it caused tax arrears because empty decisions were taken on empty entities, for example in the article. 108. Therefore, we certainly have the right to expect that the arrears may continue to increase in the near future because of the fact that the old controls, which were launched before 1 March 2017, are still under way. As regards the amounts of refunds that have been withheld, I will calculate this at the moment, as was the question from Mr Dolnośląskie: in 2017, 195 taxable persons had to suspend VAT payments for the total amount of PLN 196 531 762, Kujawsko-Pomorskie - 75 entities for the total amount of PLN 23 989 470, Lubelskie - 77 taxable persons for the total amount of PLN 48 838 941, oruskie - 96 taxable persons for the total amount of PLN 40 976 829, Łódź - 259 taxable persons for the amount of PLN 212 436 896, Małopolskie - 174 entities for the total amount of PLN 106 008 439, Mazowieckie, as the largest - 803 entities for the total amount of PLN 1 672 414 thousand. zł, opolskie - 27 entities had a halted VAT return for the total amount of PLN 8 857 482, podkarpackie - 142 entities for the total amount of 39 181 917, Podlaskie - 58 entities for the amount of 28 854 thousand, pomorskie - 170 entities for the amount of 224 976 thousand, Śląskie - 248 entities for the total amount of 123 062 thousand. PLN, Świętokrzyskie - 30 entities for the amount of 7014 thousand. PLN, Warmińsko-Mazurskie - 48 entities for the amount of 6908 thousand, Wielkopolskie - 228 entities for the amount of 49 070 thousand. PLN and West Pomerania - 95 entities, taxpayers for a total of 53 448 thousand. Total amounts withheld in 2017 amounted to PLN 2 842 570 986. Yeah, that was the total amount. What would I like to highlight? The fact that it is a much lower amount of reimbursement interruptions than it was in the previous year, 2016 because it was then an amount of 5 029 925 thousand. zł. That's the rule. or actually the direction of our new action in the National Tax Administration. We want to step away from this, or at least use controls as rarely as possible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] apply as little as possible to the retention of VAT. At the moment, we want to place a strong emphasis on analytical activities so that the taxpayer has as little problems as possible with the tax authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Paweł Szramka will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u31	Minister, the basic question is: How long can control take? Is it normal for controllers to sit at the company for a year and still sniff at the entrepreneur? Really, let's give people a breath. The fact that the National Tax Administration has just been established cannot lead to the slaughter of entrepreneurs. Some people are waiting for this VAT refund to catch their breath or use it to invest in order to develop their businesses. Let's not treat everyone like thieves, because soon everyone will register their companies abroad, because it's normal and honest here, you just can't.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u32	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u33	The case of one company you're talking about doesn't mean that it affects all the actors, all the taxpayers. Here, when it comes to VAT refunds, we try to make these refunds as soon as possible in situations that are certain, proven situations. As I said earlier, the situation of the company - you mentioned that we are talking about February 2017 - is definitely connected with the initiation of control in the old UKS structure. The tax authorities did not always work properly, and therefore a new reform had to be created in order to improve the functioning of all those authorities which unfortunately did not work well, at a very high level. You yourself admit that this is February 2017, so this is the control that we had to start, as it was already indicated. It was preferable to initiate this check, and therefore we could not refrain from initiating it. Of course, the situation is quite difficult, but that doesn't mean that we're gonna hold back this money to fund the Treasury budget. We really want entrepreneurs to work and not be, like you said, slaughtered. We'll do everything we can to make VAT refunds as soon as possible. Of course, we will look at this particular situation of this company as much as possible, and we will see what the reasons are and what the difficulties are. I suspect these are objective difficulties. However, as for the details, we would need to take a closer look at this exceptional situation that you were talking about. On the other hand, when it comes to VAT returns, as I say, we are now making these returns faster when it comes to construction, about micro-companies, when it comes to companies that have a clean tax card. When they settle correctly, when these accounts are very transparent, then it is possible to make a refund by a much earlier date than the VAT Act provides for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question was asked by Members Mirosław Suchoń, Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Adam Szłapka, Elżbieta Stępień and Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Club on the growing wave of racist aggression, including against children, resulting from the policy of PiS consisting in silent acceptance of discrimination against people on grounds of religion, origin, language, color and values. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we'd prefer there's no reason to ask that question. This is a very serious problem, a problem that should be outside any political dispute at all. Unfortunately, we are forced to ask this question because we do not see in the PiS government the determination to fight against the phenomena that we have cited by presenting the subject of this question. Of course, the statistics here are absolutely crucial. We can see clearly that the number of such crimes is increasing. However, statistics alone do not reflect the dramatic situation. Just like the last time we had an example of a child being attacked for these very reasons. I must tell you, this is not the only example. I have a dozen such examples here, even from the last year, when young people were the victims of such attacks. And, ladies and gentlemen, in addition, Minister Błaszczak, following the principle of breaking the thermometer, and you will not have a temperature, in 2016 he withdrew the manual for police training, which taught how to recognise hate crimes, which means that police officers will not be trained in this area, and hate crimes will be classified into other categories than in statistics so far, so that these statistics are better, lower. In addition, the PiS government is usually silent in this case, and if it speaks after a while, it is surprising and shocking to justify the perpetrators of such crimes or to accuse even the Ombudsman that he has, for example. very clear leftist views, or in response to the Independence March, on the banners, claiming that these are kind of unambiguous associations. Yes, I do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: First, does the PiS government intend to launch a campaign to counter this wave of aggression in response to this growing wave of aggression? And second question: When will the police training guide on the diagnosis of hate crimes be included, withdrawn more than a year ago? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u36	Thank you very much. And please observe the time limit. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u37	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, High Izbo! I definitely cannot agree, because it is impossible to agree, with the thesis put by your Members, by the Member who asked the question, because it is a question whether this set of questions is just a fake question. That's not really a question. The allegation of alleged consent in Poland to discrimination against persons on grounds of religion, origin, language, colour of skin or political views is both unfounded and absurd. If anything, I would like to ask Members to point out concrete examples that there are indeed such actions as you could justify in your questions. I don't think you're going to point that out because they just don't exist. Your intentions, ladies and gentlemen, as Members of the opposition, are quite different, and we know that very well because of the whole context that your assessments concern. Unresponsible states, because that's what it has to be called, the accusation is just another manifestation of an attempt to discredit what is happening in Poland and Poland on the international stage. This is an attempt to convince Poles that the Government of Law and Justice tolerates and even allegedly supports racism and xenophobia. We have seen a number of times how total opposition has acted to the detriment of our common state. Your methods of action are a typical example of manipulation. Under the cloak of slogans and openness to others, you bring only a negative, unreal message of concern for civil rights. I would like to say very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, the High Sejm, that the Government of Law and Justice strongly condemns the behaviour of discrimination against people on grounds of religion, origin, language, colour of skin or political views. Every such case revealed is and will be fully explained and prosecuted by the authorities of the State appointed to do so, and crimes committed for racist or xenophobic reasons are not only in the constant interest of the Police, but always meet and meet with its determined action to detect, capture and punish the perpetrators. It is worth mentioning this: for the first time, it has not been done before, the fight against hate crimes has been entered into the priorities - there are seven of them; it is a very important record - the chief of police for the years 2016.2018. This is priority 2 5: recognition and fight against hate crimes. This is a very important document. He is discussed at all meetings, annual briefings and not only with the management, but with all police officers. In addition, I would like to say that both at the headquarters and in the voivodship headquarters, coordinators were appointed for the fight against hate crimes, as well as human rights attorneys, and at the Office for Combating Cybercrime at the Police Headquarters and the Cybercrime Departments in the voivodship headquarters - coordinators for the fight against hate crimes in cyberspace. These are some of the actions that are worth noting, so that you know this, because maybe this will change the picture. Now the statistics, because this is where the Member said that statistics justify such anxiety. No, it doesn't. I would like to say that crime in Poland has dropped in recent years at all. As far as total crimes are concerned, in 2017, we had about 782,000 of them, while in terms of hate crimes, 726 of them were reported. This is a decrease compared to 2016, when there were 765, and compared to 2015, when they were recorded 791. These are art crimes. 119 § 1, Art. 256 § 1, Art. 256 § 2 and Art. 257. These are those crimes that are legally classified as hate crimes. On the other hand, it should be noted that the number of these crimes actually increased, but between 2013 and 2014, because in 2013 there were 474, and in the following year, 2014.727. Then, under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, there was indeed an increase, and it is quite clear, almost twice, the number of hate crimes. It's gone now. These crimes represent a total of 0.000928% in relation to the number of offences. , i.e. less than 1 and this would be rounded up by 1 and the number of crimes. Of course, it must be said clearly and clearly that every such crime It's one too many crimes and you have to go after them. And that's what's happening, the police are doing it, the justice system is doing it. These examples, which you may have in mind, I can discuss later, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe we're thinking the same thing. Every time there was a determined police action. Once again, I would like to reiterate that hate crimes are and will be fought with all determination by the Polish state, and the Government of Law and Justice has never given and will never allow for such crimes to be tolerated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u39	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! However, I would like to clarify because you are talking about a falling number of crimes, but this aspect unfortunately does not have a downward trend, on the contrary, has an upward trend. The number of hate crimes increases in Poland from year to year. That is why we call on the government to respond decisively to the elimination of xenophobic aggression, especially since recently, even in Lower Silesia, we have also had dangerous physical attacks. We also have more and more trials and more convictions. I would also like to point out that you are referring to the fact that there are no such attitudes. I would like to say that there is a large billboard in Lublin, which shows that the capital is Warsaw, not Moscow, not Berlin, not Vatican, not Beijing, not Brussels. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What have you done to keep such billboards out of public consciousness? In addition, what financial resources do you intend to allocate to this end in order to eliminate all kinds of actions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u40	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u41	How many people are you going to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u42	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! I don't know what billboard you're talking about in Lublin, but I think Warsaw is the capital of Poland. Isn't it? Isn't it already? [[Minister, please don't be sarcastic.]] But I don't know the billboard, so I don't want to refer to it, but to what you said, I refer to it because the capital of Poland is and will be Warsaw. [[Applause]] On the other hand, despite the figures I have given, the Member repeats again untruthfully, saying that the number of hate crimes in Poland is increasing. It doesn't grow, it stays, let's say, at about the same level, slightly decreasing, which results from the numbers I mentioned. Let me remind you once again: on the total number of crimes mentioned earlier, 782,000, in 2017 - the number of crimes also falls from year to year and their detection is increasing - the number of crimes motivated by hate from the articles previously mentioned was 726, and this was not an increase, but a decrease from previous years, and the increase occurred between 2013 - the rule of the Civic Platform, and 2014 - also the rule of the Civic Platform at that time. The detection of these crimes, Commissioner, is still worth noting, is high. She's higher than the detection of crimes from seven categories of most serious crimes on a daily basis for citizens, i.e. theft, burglary, car theft, robbery, battery, property damage or personal injury. It is with these seven categories of crime that we always compare with, mostly in the police, exactly this type of crime, because they are similar when it comes to the difficulty of detecting them. The detection of these seven categories of offences exceeded 40% In 2017, and earlier in 2015, it amounted to 35%, an increase in 2016 to 38%. These crimes have really good detection, and each time they meet with a strong response. Maybe two examples, if your marshal allows, which show the police attitude above all. On 19 February 2017, a group of fans of the sports club WRKS Olimpia Warszawa - approx. 10 people - referred to as the Olympians, moving on the city bus, beat the Malian citizen. It's a case known from the media. The reason for the assault was that a dark-skinned man didn't want to leave the bus the fans were driving. After the victim entered the vehicle, one of the fans tried to push him out of the vehicle. When he started resisting and defending himself, the rest of the men attacked him by punching him with their arms and legs. A number of operational and procedural activities were carried out during the preparatory procedure, very quickly and decisively. Seven perpetrators of this crime have been identified and arrested, who have been charged with an article. 119, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 158 and Article 15 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) For all suspects, the court has taken preventive measures in the form of a temporary arrest for a period of 3 months. The investigation was concluded on 28 April 2017 and was submitted to the prosecutor's office with a request for indictment of the suspect. One more case -- short, I'm finishing up, your marshal -- but there are a lot of cases like this, and it's the same every time. The City Police Command in Łódź conducted preparatory proceedings under the supervision of the District Attorney's Office in Łódź on 14 April 2017 in the case of insulting in Łódź because of the racial affiliation of the Bangladeshi citizen with words which I will not quote, because they are uncensorable, and damage to the kebab toasters at Zahir Kebab bar, etc., i.e. It's about an act of art. 288 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 257 Criminal Code in conjunction with Article. 11 § 2nd Penal Code. Two perpetrators were detained and accused as a result of their professional activities. 288, Art. 257 and Art. The 11th Penal Code. At the request of the police and the prosecutor's office, the court took a precautionary measure in the form of a temporary arrest. This proceeding was terminated on 24 September 2017 and was submitted to the prosecutor's office with a request for indictment. This case of a 14-year-old girl, the last one, maybe one more sentence worth saying about it, is explained. A whole series of circumstances of this event are really unclear. However, we are waiting for the results of her hearing by the court. This was scheduled for tomorrow. The event took place on January 3rd. The police filed a motion shortly after, the fourth one. Why didn't the court order this hearing right away so it could be easier, faster, more effective to prosecute the perpetrators, if they were, then I don't know. We're waiting for the results of the hearing in court and everything. But the police reacted clearly, I mean definitely, strongly, correctly...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...what belonged to her, she did, and every time she does, she will. Thank you very much, Minister. [[May I, Marshal?]] But in what mode? 'Cause I'm... [[I would just like to present to the Minister examples of the understatement of the problem.]] But maybe it's... I'm the one who would have asked after, 'cause the formula of the question ran out. Then please, because the formula of the question is exhausted. Please, let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak and Jan Łopata, a club of PSL, about not paying widows and orphans after the dead miners compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. Question for the Minister of Energy. The first question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u45	I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law of 12 October 2017 on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal, concerning the payment of 10 000. for miners who have lost... for pensioners or widows and children after miners, only includes... [[Game in the O.R.]] The minister was busy, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u46	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. [[He knows what to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u47	The Minister already knows what to answer, because he received a written question from us, but the problem today is that widows and children of miners who died without pension rights do not receive such benefits. I would like to remind you that this law was proceded in a very urgent, express manner, that was, let's call it, such a one-day law, later in express mode the amendment of the budget law was carried out, for this purpose 2300 million PLN. Today, a number of widows who apply to companies entitled to pay these benefits receive negative decisions or no information at all. So our question is, was it a conscious mistake? Was that the purpose of the government, or was it simply an oversight of this law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And why can't people who are in a much more difficult situation because they lost a family member in an accident, mostly underground, receive it, while widows who have passed away naturally receive such benefits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u48	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski for an answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I thank you for calling this subject, because the question is, but before I explain, I would only have a request that we may try to not use the words in the bill to deprive someone of their payouts, because we have restored the possibility. I do not want to argue here, when it happened and why, but there was no oversight, and when it comes to the fact that we actually acted quite quickly under this law, I have to say that it was another version of the law, because, as you probably remember, the citizens' project was impacted in 2016, it almost influenced in parallel with the end of work on the return to the deputy. We as the Ministry of Energy have prepared such a project. Later, we changed it several times in line with the suggestions of inter-ministerial arrangements and actually after three projects, where of course there was a budgetary issue, because it was related to certain measures that had to be guaranteed, because we wanted the Social Security Office to start the restoration of the deputy, this idea appeared in the last year's budgetary situation, so that it could be done in a different formula, one-off. That's how we built the compensation bill on the basis of these three of our laws, and she was... We did not want to approach public aid so that we could have no problem with the action in other industries or at all with a system. That's why we could put it in the bill... I want to stress that it wasn't about taking someone away, not knowing or noticing the problem. In order to really implement some issue related to deputies, we could only include those retired people who lost that right in the bill. I would like to say here that after the discussion we had, among others. with the masters - she was fruitful, I welcome the discussion on this law - we have expanded this catalogue under this law on widows and orphans after pensioners, because we could have done so. This extension was the result of suggestions which were included in the citizens' law. I am not saying that this citizens' law was not right, it was wrong, because I judge it very positively, but I would like to add that after these debates and after those voices that were during this brief procession, we also wrote widows and orphans after pensioners. This is the group of widows and orphans whose husbands, fathers, retired, retired, were deprived of their deputies. On the other hand, the legal problem, because the problem is also I share it, is a problem, among others. persons who lost their deputies when they were employees. By one-sided termination, the agreement with the social side in individual companies deprived those persons of their deputies, but as employees, after which they retired. They've been retired since last year, but they lost their rights when they were employees. We have a problem here to put them on the bill, because then we go into the issue of public aid, but it also opens up a catalogue of other professions. I'm asking if we're even gonna be doing this... And here we have these widows and orphans you're asking about, from those groups that were active when they lost their deputies. We are actually gathering information today and I can say this, but I don't want it to sound like I'm making some kind of far-reaching declaration because it would be irresponsible for us today, because this is what we're talking about, whether on the one hand it's a decision or a financial measure, but we're trying to diagnose what a lot of people are, and we're trying to get close to it because we have different cases. Therefore, I encourage parliamentarians: if you have such information, pass it on to us to the department. This is the group that I'm sure we're going to try to figure out, figure out how we're really going to solve this problem. On the other hand, they are certainly not covered by this law. As for what you asked, there is no answer, I would like to say that we already have almost 190 000 today. the compensation payments paid. Where there is no answer, mostly - this is the crushing majority of people who have submitted applications, and for today they have not been informed - these people have been invited to report documents. These documents are sometimes taken out of the ZUS, hence the time is a little longer, and certainly every application will be analysed, and every request will be answered. Now there are still staff reinforcements in the area of answering phones, such a hotline, because it turns out that we have quite complicated cases on some issues, and people are not always able to tell what their problem is, so we help them with suggestions about reporting documents. By closing this answer on the issue of these people, the 12,000 you did not ask about, but it is also in the range of this issue, we are agreed with the social side in each of the coal companies, that after the first half of the year, when we see what the results are, we will examine what can be done on this issue, because the key is that we have the funds that we have in the companies today, we have invested, of course looking at the issue of these people somewhere. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a problem to be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Mr Jan Łopata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, We certainly hoped that the group we are asking about, the women who are widows of the miners who died, we missed out on this legislative rush, but you have clearly resolved this situation, but it was, so to speak, forgotten for budgetary reasons. That's how I figured it out. We have awakened hope - that is the truth - and I say: we have awakened, because this law has been supported by the government, the opposition has also supported it, so we take it on ourselves in some way. We gave hope. It was supposed to be a star. They don't have an answer today. That's even worse than that negative answer. Thank you very much for this unambiguous reply that you will be wondering about budget deficits. We figured it was about $38,000. people, so it would be over PLN 300 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is certainly a lot of money, but possible in this budget of the Polish state. And in this hope that they had before Christmas, it would be worth to bend over these people again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u52	Thank you. Would the Minister like to address this further? Please, Mr. Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You are right, Mr President, that this is also a budgetary issue, and it is indeed of some magnitude, and you are right that we are around 40,000. That's the truth. Here you have, I think, quite precise data. In addition to this budget issue, where we have, as you have rightly pointed out, the agreement that this issue needs to be resolved together, I think we could be considering these measures, but we alone have a problem that these funds for today... We can't find a recipe so we can put it right out of the budget. We've got more of that assigned to the companies. This financial burden is related to entities, i.e. the Polish Górnicza Group, with the Jastrzębska company, with SRK. And that burden is out of our budget. I don't want to get ahead of myself when it comes to the Ministry of Finance, but I think it would be much easier for us to include this solution in the budget. We're actually analyzing this, which is why I know we're around 40 grand. people in this group. As we have analysed, we take this into account. This is why we want to close this issue first about pensioners and pensioners, which we have established in the Act. Now she actually showed up. We're dealing with this issue of post-accident widows. And we need to think about not opening ourselves up here in the parliament of phenomena in other professions, because the intention of this bill, we talked to each other anyway... What I think was very valuable during this debate. We're the ones who took over the retirement group and the pensioners, because I didn't find it -- maybe there's a group, but I didn't find it -- that any other retirement group with certain rights would be deprived of them. Because notice what the difference is about those people who worked. I know that of course someone... You're telling me that there are possibilities, but we didn't have any control over it, because we've been imposed on some solutions. It is true that at the time when someone was an employee, it was deprived of it as a result of an agreement between the parties, i.e. the employer and the employer, the collective agreement abolishes this right... But the truth is, an active worker had a different legal status than a pensioner. So that I'm showing you that we actually sense a problem. I don't think that's what separates us. It is only a question of finding a rational solution to be able to bear not so much financially, but actually not burden the entities with a certain burden, when we are facing significant investments, especially in the Polish Mining Group. And that's all I wanted to say. Thank you for bringing up the subject at the same time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is asked by Wojciech Zubowski and Grzegorz Matusiak, the Law and Justice Club, on the European Commission's initiative to launch a support programme in the transition of mining and high-carbon regions. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna ask four questions about this. At what stage are the discussions with the European Commission on launching a support programme in the transition of mining and high-carbon regions? Please inform about the scope of the talks in Warsaw, I will remind you, 12 October 2017 and in Strasbourg on 11 December 2017. Will there be another meeting with the European Commission on this matter? What projects can be implemented as part of an initiative for mining regions: infrastructure, environment or industry? Who will be able to implement these projects: local government, companies, research institutes, universities or so-called. Economic zones? In what form will further work be carried out? Will the discussions be held at the Ministry-European Commission level, or can a working group be set up? Will local authorities be able to participate in these discussions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u56	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for bringing this up. He is particularly important, as was the case in the first question, at what stage are the talks with the European Commission on the launch of the programme, and I must say that there has been a problem at all about the support programme for the transition of mining and high-carbon regions. It is related to the fact that the Ministry of Energy has asked the European Union to consider the possibility, as in the case of the German party, of receiving support for the recovery of post-industrial sites into economic life. That's where some preliminary conversations came from. Thus, on 12 October last year, a meeting was held with representatives of the European Commission on projects to support mining regions. That's what it was called. The meeting was chaired by Mr Juraj Nociar, Head of the Cabinet of the Vice-President of the European Commission. Mr Maroš sefčovič's energy. The meeting was also attended by representatives of government administration, regional authorities, local authorities from Silesia and the social side. I have to say, the Ministry of Energy presided over it, my person with the Department of Mining. There were representatives of all sides of society. It was also a novel, because we asked them to show the voice of the social side in this discussion with the European Union. There were representatives of local governments, the chairman of the Upper Silesian and Zagłęgian metropolis, as well as the representative of the city of Katowice. There were also representatives of the Marshal's office and representatives of various entities in the mining sector: GIG, ICHPW, i.e. institutes and individual companies. On 11 December, as part of the follow-up to the meeting in Strasbourg on 12 October, the European Commission officially launched the "Programme of Support for Mining Regions'. Among the participants of the conference were representatives of both government, local government and companies and non-governmental, social organizations, as it happened in Warsaw. I must say that if this programme is actually implemented, it will become a model in the European Union for other countries. It is intended to be mutated for the needs of individual countries so that the solutions developed for this project can be used in individual countries, because for some moment the Union does not have an instrument for such a programme to function. That's why we're so interested in our proposal. The question concerning information on the scope of talks in Warsaw on 12 October and 11 December. What next meeting is expected? So the meeting on 11 December in Warsaw was open-minded, we initiated a dialogue and presented our suggestions. Two criteria have been presented. The first criterion was that investments are to be undertaken quickly. It was not said how fast, but it was said that quickly, i.e.. This is not supposed to be research activities on the basis that we will continue to analyse, to consider, but rather on the innovation of projects. The two criteria presented were the basis for us to start focusing on the support of individual entities or institutes for such projects in our environment under the supervision of the Mining Department. And I'm gonna say two words about them, too. On the other hand, on 11 December 2017, it was also established that two working groups would be set up as part of the "Programme of Support for Mining Regions' initiative, so that this is a concrete translation into what we set up: a working group on economic development and structural transformation of the mining regions and a working group on eco-innovation and advanced coal technologies. This shows to what extent we want to implement these programmes. In the first place, the working groups are to address the dialogue on good practice, regional strategies. Importantly, in the spirit of these meetings was clarified very important and presented on 21 December 2017. The programme for Silesia, which is included in the programme for responsible development, is the only regional programme which presents projects that are real projects also in this programme. This strengthens the position of dialogue between the Polish side and the European Commission, showing acceptance and at the same time proposals of individual projects. Next case. What projects can be implemented under the initiative and who will be able to implement these projects? Of course it's also a zone, the range is wide here. As far as institutions are concerned, there are no closed fields here. We are more concerned with activity, about showing some solutions that can be implemented and change the character of Silesian voivodship and post-industrial areas in this case. On the other hand, I think that the fact that we have mentioned good practices will be a great example to move some solutions to other regions in Poland, and as it turns out that we will also be a model for different countries, it will undisputedly be a great promotion of some economic solutions related to reindustrialisation, research and development, with clean technologies in European space, but also beyond it. What topics will be covered by the projects? Firstly, this is the restructuring of mining regions. There will still be research work that I mentioned. And here the investment areas of the mines are those groups of problems around which we will be looking for and looking for investment solutions, so that there will be a proper stimulation in post-industrial areas. In what formula will further work be carried out? Will there be ministerial talks? What I'm trying to say is that another conversation and a meeting... [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't mind, 15 and 20 seconds, Marshal. ...will take place in January. This is supervised by the Ministry of Energy, which coordinates interministerial work, because there is also the Ministry of Development, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. On the other hand, local authorities also participate in this project, as I mentioned, institutes and companies, so it is a big undertaking which makes the scale of this project and the preparation of our website very well assessed today in the European Commission too. This year, I think, the first six months, will be this year when the first decisions should appear. Once again, referring to the Silesian Programme, I will say that we already have some concrete solutions for the projects, so this is the answer and show the European Commission that we are well prepared for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u58	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. This is a question of Bożena Kamińska and Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform, on a draft law amending Hunting Law, and is addressed to the Minister of the Environment. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In July 2014, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the creation of hunting circuits cannot take place without taking into account the will of property owners included in those circuits. In Poland you can only hunt within hunting circuits, which cover 90% the surface of the country. Many owners do not know or do not realize that their properties are part of the hunting circuit, and if they are unheated, every hunter has the right at any time to enter their territory as part of the hunting conducted. Unfortunately, any protests by the owners have no significance. Responding to the appeal and waiting nearly 90% Poles who believe that the protection of private property is more important than the pursuit of hunting, pointing to the inadmissibility of creating hunting circuits on private land without the consent of the owner, ask the following questions: Will constitutional protection of property rights be protected according to the law of citizens enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Does the Minister believe that allowing hunts in private land of owners violates the fundamental right of citizens and citizens to private property? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u60	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the question of the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Nebile. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u61	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, first of all, for bringing up this issue, this subject, because although the Polish model of hunting lasts more than 90 years, we have a lot of misconceptions and some misunderstandings that I would like to explain. This is a good time for this, and I thank you for your question. I would like to say that the hunting law in its form, which is given it by the 1995 law, has been in force for a long time, and that, as we are all well aware of this, also the Member, the law was created before the Constitution was passed. The Constitution is from 1997. So here we have some inconsistencies that are now being dealt with in the subcommittee that we want to settle. But what I would like to say is that during the last amendment of this law, the Law of Hunting, the regulations concerning their coverage of the territory of the voivodship, because the division into hunting circuits takes place by means of a resolution of the Sejm of the voivodship, has not been changed. Currently, the hunter has no right to enter private premises such as courtyards, economic buildings, farms, industrial plants and other closed areas. On the other hand, there is a right to pursue hunting in private areas that enter the borders of the hunting area, as the Member has said. In this case, open areas, agricultural parcels, fields, meadows, forest parcels and others which are widely available are considered private areas. It should be pointed out, when it comes to hunting, at all, the hunting economy, that this is now an environmental issue and that environmental protection is the responsibility of each of us, of every citizen. Currently, in the government's amendment to the Hunting Law - that is, the printing of Seym No. 1042 - some mechanisms were proposed. At the moment, the draft law is in an emergency subcommittee, and the provisions provided for therein are to strengthen the ownership rights of property owners. It goes on for example. about the possibility of objecting to the creation of a division of the voivodship into hunting circuits as to the fact that a given property, a given private property, is included in the voivodship. In addition, the owner of the property will be able to apply for a ban on hunting on his own grounds, as well as for compensation for obstructing or preventing the use of the property in question, if this property is in the hunting area despite opposition. Until now, property owners' rights in this area have not been properly, duly protected. This is now under the legislative process at the repair stage. The final shape of these provisions will be known after their adoption by the Sejm. However, as the Member has said, which is very important, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is of July 2014, and precisely in January 2016, the deadline for the implementation of that judgment has expired. In this connection, the Council of Ministers has drawn up a very comprehensive law which regulates all these matters concerning the coverage of the hunting area. However, which is very important, at the moment we have a critical situation, we have a tragic situation, we have very numerous outbreaks of the disease caused by African swine fever virus. It is a disease for which the main reservoir is of course wild, and the vector, as it turns out, man, as you can see after the last few dozen or several hundred kilometers, as in the case of the Czech Republic, its places of occurrence. This shows that bioinsurance is the most important thing, i.e. the use of proper protection, and the second thing is, of course, the elimination of the virus from the environment, the reserve of which is the wild population, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here in this case, hunting is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Madame, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering that question. Of course, we realise that the draft law amending the Hunting Law, the draft of former Minister Szyszka, contains a number of irregularities, is incompatible with the constitution, which is confirmed here, and by EU law. Security, protection of constitutional rights and citizens' security are also very often addressed. And here in this respect the scope of increasing the minimum distance of hunting from residential buildings from 100 m, which are now saved, is increased to 500 m due to the safety of people. Of course, here exceptions will be public security threats or the special situation that we now have in relation to ASF, and these cases will be excluded. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a duty. Will the Ministry also ban hunting in the presence and participation of children up to the age of 16, also with a view to the safety of minors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u64	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I also thank you very much for raising these questions, because they are very interested in public opinion, social opinion. There are very many discussions here. I'll answer the first part very briefly. The bill submitted in print No. 1042 went through the whole legislative path, there were no comments, including on compliance with European Union law, as expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is a government project, adopted by the Council of Ministers, currently being conducted in an emergency subcommittee. As for the situation concerning, I would say, detailed rules for the execution of hunting the issue is at the moment, I would say very critical and sensitive, because we have an emergency situation related to the occurrence in Poland, in Poland of disease caused by African swine fever virus. At the moment, exactly on 14 December, the High Sejm decided to adopt a law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases and in this law, which was the specialist, amended the provisions of many laws, among others. on the protection of the state border, Hunting Law, on real estate management, on Veterinary Inspection, on the protection of animal health and the fight against infectious animal diseases. We have such a situation that we can estimate that at the moment there is a population of about 1 thousand living in Warsaw alone. wild boars, maybe more. Wild, I would say, wide access to food, namely to the food waste that we dump, learn very quickly to enter cities and towns and there is a huge problem with that. Therefore, hunting and eradication should be carried out on a continuous basis. As far as the final shape is concerned, as I said, it will be established at the stage of work in the subcommittee and in the joint committees. With regard to what is very often emotional in some way, we conducted this survey - if your marshal allows - when it comes to hunting and the participation of children in hunting or even their presence in this activity. In the UK, there is no age limit for the presence of a child in hunting and hunting. The decision remains [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's up to my parents. In Finland, there is no age limit for the presence of a child on the hunt. Norway has no age limit for the participation of children in hunting, while a minor from the age of 14 may hunt small game under the care of adults. In Sweden, since the age of 15, you can have a gun and hunt under the supervision of your parent. In Belgium, there is no age limit for the presence of a child on the hunt. In Ireland, there is no age limit for the presence of a child on the hunt. In Austria, hunting can be carried out on its own since the age of 16. In Latvia, there is no age limit for the presence of a child on the hunt. Germany - no age limit. France - there is no ban on children's participation in hunting. Slovenia - in order to pursue hunting, it is necessary to complete 18 years of age. Similarly in the Czech Republic. Malta - no limit. It is similar in Italy. There is no age limit in Lithuania. The Netherlands - also. Denmark - it is possible to hunt from 16 years of age. So that it's informative for comparison, as it is in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u66	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Joanna Borowiak, Anna Paluch, Lidia Burzyńska, Anna Milczanowska and Krystyna Wróblewska, the Law and Justice Club, on the construction of the water level in Sierzewo - to the Minister of the Environment. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Włocławska dam was supposed to be only the first stage of a water cascade that regulates water levels and reduces flood risks. For nearly 50 years, however, it is one self-acting firewall, which is an important flood prevention infrastructure across the country. After many years of strenuous efforts of local authorities from Włocławek and the region, scientists and parliamentarians, we can finally rest with peace. The Government of Law and Justice qualified the construction of the water level in Sierzewo as a priority water project at national level, which should be carried out in the framework of public tasks of the State, no later than by the end of 2025. In addition, on 29 December, the Regional Environment Director issued a positive decision on environmental conditions for the construction of water level. It is very important, crucial not only for my region, but also for the whole country, an investment that strengthens the flood protection system, but also guarantees increased energy security. The water level in Sierzewo will significantly relieve the dam and reduce the risk of a disaster resulting from the intensive operation of the Włocławska dam. It is a huge success and great news for all inhabitants of Włocławka and the region. I therefore have a question, Minister: How will the construction of the water level in Sierzewo be carried out? Can you provide the Minister with an accurate schedule of work to ensure that the investment is made as soon as possible and meets not only the tasks but also the huge hopes it has?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u68	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, ladies, for this question, because I must say that the water level in Włocławek and the degree below is my entire professional life, for nearly 40 years. While still in college, in 1980, I did my diploma on the mathematical model of the consequences of the water barrier disaster in Włocławek. This is indeed an extremely important problem, which has not yet been able to find a positive end, a solution, however action has been taken. In 2000 there was a resolution of the Sejm in the field of building a degree in Ciechocinek. This is just a matter of clarifying the location near Ciechocinek. I have already been a representative of the Minister of the Environment for Construction in 2001. In 2006, in 2007 as President of the National Water Management Board, I reported this project to the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment. This was partly done - in terms of strengthening the existing water barrier in Włocławek. I also signed a letter of intent with the ENERGY Group in 2007, so that not everything was stopped by momentum. The ENERGY Group has prepared a really good concept for about 10 years, prepared an environmental impact report in cooperation with the National Water Management Board. This is how we have this environmental decision today. Of course, some NGOs have already protested that this was a damage to the environment, and they do not realize that the current state is a great damage to the environment, because there has been drooling erosion, and therefore the level of groundwater adjacent to the river, but also groundwater, has decreased, and there has been a step change. Now I'm going back because there's not much time left to go on. Indeed, on 1 December, an agreement was signed between the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Energy and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on this level. A steering committee shall be set up. I already have a full schedule of operations by 2025, when the construction should be completed. For this year, we envisage the implementation of the documentation so that by 2020 the construction can be physically started and completed in 2025. I've got this schedule right here. I can share it. As I said, a steering committee will soon be convened to clarify all the issues involved. The cost of construction is expected to be about PLN 2.2 billion. It is a real investment that is as real as possible to implement. Perhaps the last examples contradict this, because Swine Poręba was built 30 years, and the water level in Malczyce 20 years, but now we have it to complete. However, before and after the war, investments of this type lasted approx. Three, five years. If it could be done with that technology, I think it's very real with the current technology. Of course, as I said before, there may be problems here with appeals against administrative decisions. And that's probably the biggest time-limiting problem, because just doing it, if there are all the final decisions, it's really not a big problem. Indeed, this will result in improved flood safety, one can say, 100 percent water level protection in Włocławek, a barrier against disaster. There will also be some problems solved, issues related primarily to irrigation, lack of water for Kujawy. And there will be a section of the fifth class water road, additionally approx. 30 km. So, one can say, there are only positive effects and, which is extremely important and I would like NGOs to take this into account, the biodiversity of this area will increase. One of the largest bird stands in Europe is the artificial lake reservoir. Some people don't even know it's an artificial tank, but they say it's a lake. Similarly, thanks to the fact that there is a lake in Włocławek, there is a large biodiversity there, there are adjacent forests. Thanks to this tank, it's all working properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. And the second question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for those words. I, on the other hand... The public has been waiting very long for such a positive decision that we have heard today about the cascading of the lower section of the Vistula. We all care about effective work. I therefore ask the Minister these two questions: What will be the scope of the planned project? What additional benefits will it bring for the region? I also have a question about the repair of the dam in Włocławek, because it is already serviced and still active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u72	Thank you very much, Member. What benefits? I was just talking about these benefits. First of all, there'll be flood protection. It's a renewable energy source. Not much, 60 MW, but completely renewable and able to perform, which is very important, some system functions in the electricity grid, e.g. when the so-called. Blackout, which is the disappearance of the network for various reasons. The hydro power plant is the power plant that can be activated within a few minutes to restore voltage on the grid and thus restore the entire electricity system. This is perhaps a paradox, that for the operation of thermal power plants, coal is needed voltage on the grid so that we can raise generators. That's a technical detail. Irrigation, irrigation, human work. I think these are the areas with the highest unemployment in Poland. Work not only during construction but also during operation. This will create a water reservoir, and remember that now the water in the Vistula is really clean. Maybe people don't know it yet, because for many years there has been such a belief that the Vistula is a wandering sewer, that's what we used to say. The water in the Vistula is clean. As a result, there will be great opportunities for recreation. That too is extremely valuable. There will also be a road crossing, which is the combination of the left and right sides of the Vistula, especially since this right side of the Vistula is, you can say, extremely little urbanized, requires some activity. If it's expensive, it'll show up right away. As far as the firewall in Włocławek is concerned, some work has already been done. The foundations of this barrier were strengthened. During this investment all works will be carried out on the section from Sierzewo, i.e. from the vicinity of Nieszawa, a little below Nieszawa, up to Włocławka itself, i.e. also the exit of the Headquarters, and flood shafts up to the barrier, as well as additional reinforcement of the foundations. The main reinforcement, the main effect of this construction, will be that it will be supported by water, because these erosion phenomena that occur at the moment, depend on the fact that water has a lot of energy, because it always has a lot of energy, if there is uproar, and there is no way to destroy this energy. When there's water, naturally this energy will be wiped out. This will be the main lasting effect of securing this barrier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Tomasz Kostusz and Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform, on the closure of hospital units, on the example of Kluczbork and Olesna, as a result of the doctor's termination of the opt-out clause, to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Kostus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u74	Dear Marshal! For the past few months here, from this place, in this Chamber Minister Radziwiłł, Prime Minister Beata Szydło has assured us that the queues to doctors of first contact, specialists, hospitals will disappear. They assured us that there were extra funds, extra money for additional treatments. They assured us that it would be beautiful, wonderful, that they would lift the Polish health system from their knees. What do we got? We have chaos, we have a mess, we have more protests from other groups, because not only doctors are protesting, but also nurses, paramedics, all those who form the Polish health system. A breakthrough, I remind you, was supposed to be October 1st. I remind you that since October 1st everything was supposed to be beautiful and wonderful. The hospital network was supposed to be an antidote to all the problems and problems of the Polish health system. So? Nothing. The best example, Minister, is the Opole region, where the situation seems very, perhaps not dramatic, but crisis. I would like to remind you that two internist units of two large hospitals, which have actually deprived access to medical services and severely reduced security, have been suspended for a week. I remind you that since yesterday one of the largest hospitals in Opole has suspended all surgical procedures until further notice. I would like to remind you that Opole is estimated to be 1,000 inhabitants with the least doctors and the least expense per patient. These are the facts, these are the data from the Supreme Auditorium's report. Get to the point. Minister, if it's so good, why is it so bad? Question: "What is your idea of healing the sick situation in the Polish health system, in particular in Opole region?" Minister, what will you do to improve the level of medical security in the Opole Voivodship? And don't hide, please don't say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's the government's fault it's Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform. Don't tell me you're in control of the situation because your predecessor and the government of law and justice are all responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u75	Thank you very much, sir. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u76	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm absolutely not going to point out your mistakes, but since you've started, it's hard for me not to relate to that. I don't think there's a bad situation about the number of doctors in Opole this year. It must have taken many, many years. Similarly, too low expenditure on health care is not a problem this year. I would like to remind you that last year it was added to the health care system in our country about 6 billion, and I would also like to remind you that we are currently operating in the realities of the new law, the so-called. Act 6% which assumes, for the first time in our country's history, an increase in healthcare expenditure to 6% GDP no later than in the next 8 years, and on a scale of 10 years it will be PLN 547 billion. So if we're talking about facts, let's be very precise. If we speak precisely, the surgical department of the hospital in Opole suspended only the scheduled procedures and did not suspend emergency procedures, so that it is not so that there is any danger to patients from surgical departments at the level of Opole that something has been threatened. I am fresh from talking to the Opolskie vice-voivode, Mrs Violetta Porowska, who is responsible for the health care units. The Voivodship Office monitors this on an ongoing basis, at our request. The regional branch of the NFZ in Opole also sends us current reports. The situation in two hospitals: in Olesno and in Kluczbork it is currently such that the operation of internal departments in these two hospitals was suspended until 19 January this year. The number of internist beds in the voivodship is 753 beds. After disabling these two branches, in one - 35, in the other - 53, there were 664 beds. The number of these two branches was as follows last year: 61% in the hospital in Kluczbork And at the hospital in Olesno it was 73%. From the information given to me by your voivode, the National Health Fund, we know that with regard to the hospital in Olesno, which has a larger internist unit, in response to the announcement in the national press, a lot of doctors came forward willing to discuss their employment as director of this hospital, so we have a significant, almost 100 percent confidence that after this period, after 19 January, the internist unit in the hospital in Olesno will take up normal work. We hope that the same will happen in Kluczbork. On the other hand, when it comes to huge inconveniences for patients, here we must be aware that this is an inconvenience, while on a scale, in the macro-scale of the voivodship... Current monitoring, which is carried out by the voivodship office, and reports are submitted at hours. 9 and 13, showed that yesterday there were 48 such beds, and today there were 48 beds. 9 free internist, purely internist beds, i.e. in the departments of internal diseases - and let us remember that conservative branches have such a specific character that these patients can be treated on many related branches - there were 53, so that on the scale of the voivodship it is not a dramatic situation, but of course it is a huge inconvenience for patients. All I can do is apologize to my patients for the inconvenience they've experienced because of the doctor's wage demands. I am very sorry that this happened, but this period of breakthrough... at the end of the year there were doctor-patient absenteeisms and civil law agreements with doctors - because we have to say that in these two hospitals we are not dealing with the termination of the opt-out clause, only with the termination of contracts, civil law contracts signed by these doctors, and with the initiation of wage negotiations with the directorate of hospitals, which unfortunately did not end in due time - hence these major difficulties in functioning. However, on the scale of the entire voivodship, as I say, this is not a situation which would pose any threat. In addition, we need to remember that we have a well-functioning rescue system, we have a medical coordinator at the voivodship office, who collects information and medical emergency teams dispatches data on free beds on an ongoing basis. The hospital in Olesno has a very well-functioning rescue unit, which provides emergency assistance to all in need. However, according to the rules of the System of State Medical Rescue patients can be transported and transported - if required by the situation, if they require hospitalisation - by medical emergency teams outside the area of the operational area. All you have to do is report to the medical examiner. That's what's happening now. Like I said, I was talking about half-tenths with your voivodeship, and the situation is under control at the moment. I hope that after January 19th, both of these troops will start in normal mode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u78	Thank you very much. Minister, I am very sorry that you have gone the same way, that you have taken the same course that Minister Radziwielła has chosen. Minister Radziwiłł for a long time assured that there was no chaos and that nothing was happening, but he paid a huge price for it, even if just like this - it happened yesterday - like resignation. This shows that his policy direction was wrong and that the dispute was not resolved. I also do not agree with your argument that at the moment everything is contained, there is no chaos and there is no danger, because, however, the number of centres, hospitals, which have some difficulty in operating, are increasing, and above all, the safety of patients and their access to benefits is deteriorating. My question, Minister, is very specific. I would very much ask the Minister to tell you what projects you are working on to resolve the conflict with doctors. That's one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not only about finance, but also about improving the organisation of work, reducing red tape and concrete system solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Mark Tombarkiewicz to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! If it helps, I declare that I am ready to resign at any time if it is the will of the Minister of Health. All state officials, as you know very well, the Minister knows, are here to do our job best. And I cannot agree with the fact that, because of the argument that Minister Radziwiłł used, he was dismissed. I don't think it's as simple as it sounds. We are talking about facts, and it is clear from the facts - we have introduced a 6-percent law, which is a clear way of reaching more money. Both last year and this year, these funds will be larger, not to mention the global amount of more than 500 billion over the next 10 years. These are facts. As I said, there are difficulties for patients. I don't deny it. However, it is not armageddon, chaos for the whole health system, and I would not like words to fall from the Parliament's benches, which may pose a threat or stimulate patient anxiety, because on the scale of the system, on the scale of the voivodship, on the scale of the neighbouring voivodships, this health system is still safe. If we're also talking about facts, we've created maps of health needs, policy paper. It took a long time, but they were created. Many elements have also been described. It is constantly rising that we have the smallest number of doctors in the country, but somehow no one says that we have the highest rate when it comes to hospital beds throughout the European Union, so perhaps this is also the answer to the questions that this is the case with too few doctors, with which no one discusses. However, please take a fair look at how much we have increased our college recruitment. That's about $1.5,000. places within 2 years. We have increased the number of residents granted, so that none of the doctors will run out of residency. We are just before passing to the external consultation the Act on amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, which was also developed with the environment of doctors by a team working at the Ministry of Health, also with the environment of young doctors resident, those who later protested. And there are proposals for solutions that affect what doctors have reported, i.e. the flexible national system of recruitment for residence jobs, so that it is not as yet possible that the doctor could apply for one specialization in one voivodship, only he will be able to graduate his dreams of being a doctor and will be able to apply for three specializations in all 16 voivodships. This will provide huge opportunities, flexible recruitment system, while at the same time giving full guarantee of the use of both each specialized place and every resident job. These elements are extremely important to facilitate specialization training. This, however, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What we are currently working on is, for example, fresh regulations on guaranteed hospital care benefits, guaranteed outpatient specialist care benefits, changes to the general contract terms, i.e. flexibility of the system without any risk to patients. Because it must be made clear to ourselves that in the requirements of the President of the NFZ, the possibility to join on-calls has existed for many, many years. We are now transferring such elements to the regulations of the Minister of Health, which are intended to facilitate management in terms of the operation of branches. And you have to remember that according to the policy paper average beds in our country it is 74%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Barbara Dziuk, Jolanta Szczypińska, Joanna Kopcińska and Edward Sarka from the Law and Justice Club on the introduction of a specialty on dentobuses and dental prevention in children, including the funding of clinical hospitals. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last year in September, we introduced a specialty on prevention, about taking care of the teeth of the youngest generation, because for several years unfortunately this thing has been neglected, which results in 16% Six-year-olds have healthy teeth. Minister, I would like to know what money has just been earmarked for dental prevention, for the purchase of dentobuses, as well as for matters related to prevention education. We also know that these issues related to the entire health protection of the youngest generation have, unfortunately, been neglected so far. We know that teeth have a major impact on the entire health status of the human body. In this case specific studies are being carried out, there are concrete statements of authorities from all over the world. In view of the above, I would very much like to know how many dentists have been purchased, whether there are measures already taken with regard to finance, how much money has been spent on this, as well as how much money has been spent on dental offices and how many facilities or how many regions have taken part in this programme. Minister, I would like to thank you very much on this part for the measures taken, because the social expectation and the expectation of parents in particular concerned about health is in this [[♪ The bell ♪]] A moment of great importance. Yeah, well, I'm asking you to give me some information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u83	Thank you very much, Member. I invite the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u84	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The health of children and young people has always been, is and will be a priority of the Government of Law and Justice. Following an analysis of health problems among children and young people, we have come to the conclusion that the child and youth health organisation system is insufficient, not fully efficient, and that they can also be born, and that various health problems arise in addition, which in fact cause later, in adult life, major problems both in working and social life, but also in the need to increase the expenditure on health protection. We have therefore started very quickly to prepare a new childcare system for children and young people. In the Ministry of Health, a project was created for the Children's and Youth's Health Act, which was subject to public consultation. As a result of these consultations, a specific draft law on the care of children and young people at school, in school medicine, and one of the elements of this bill is dental care. In this project we would like to present a new system for the organisation of dental care for children and young people, of course financed by public funds, with particular emphasis on preventive and promotional measures in the field of oral health. One of the elements of the implementation of this law was tasks which were carried out in 2017 and which resulted from the specialization. Within the framework of this law, after its adoption thanks to the involvement of many parliamentarians, we had the opportunity, firstly, to finance purchases for preventive offices in schools and to guarantee funds for all schools in which such dental offices should be launched as well as for the purchase of dentobuses. At the beginning we planned to purchase 16 dentobuses, so that each voivodship, each voivode, would have at its disposal one dentobus. I would like to stress that dentobuses did not constitute a basic place of dental services, because the primary place of dental services for children and young people is to be a dental office, while we are fully aware that there are small schools in Poland at a large distance from dental offices and that this availability is not fully guaranteed there. Dentobuses are about to supplement this panel with various types of healthcare providers, so that this availability, especially preventive benefits, but also treatments, is actually increased. In the fourth quarter, when the law was signed by the President, a contest procedure was conducted, which resulted in the selection of the contractor of the dentobuses and in fact 16 dentobuses were purchased. On 20 December, an agreement was signed between the Minister of Health and the voivodships who will take over the dentobuses. In parallel, work is underway, both at the Ministry of Health and at the National Health Fund, aimed at adapting the current legislation in such a way that the benefits provided in the dentobuses can be contracted. On the side of the Minister of Health, this work has already been completed, while at the moment the final stage of the procedure is underway for the order of the President of the National Health Fund, on the basis of which the competition procedure will be launched. According to information obtained from the National Health Fund, the competition procedure will be announced this month. We also have information that many tenderers are interested in providing benefits in dentobuses. We hope that in the first quarter of this year these dentobuses will be able to start providing benefits, they will be able to serve children. So it is an action that was taken in the fourth quarter by increasing the health expenditure that took place in the fourth quarter. These additional measures have just launched the first phase of the implementation of the new student healthcare organisation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. And Madam - one more question. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This special act was also intended to finance, increase expenditure on health protection. Here I mean the purchase of equipment for oncology, pediatrics in cathedral centers, ministerial centres, subordinate ministries, as well as the purchase of equipment, apparatus for neonatology departments - the third reference level. I have a question for the Minister: How is this process going? Have these tasks been completed? What stage are they at? Are there any problems, or does everything go according to the procedure involved in such activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u87	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask the Minister Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko to refer to this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u88	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the Law of 15 September 2017 on special solutions for improving the quality and availability of health services, so-called. Specialists, it was to ensure that the technical state of health infrastructure was improved by an increase of a total of 281 800 000. zł financial resources for the purchase of equipment for various types of providers. This objective has been achieved in connection with the signals that have been addressed to us from different backgrounds, especially with regard to childcare and youth, from the environments that deal with the treatment of young children, newborns. These signals concerned the lack of equipment, especially in neonatal, neonatological units, equipment which is necessary for the provision of life-threatening benefits where they are born with children with defects that require immediate intervention. We had signals that there was a shortage of this equipment, so we immediately took action to equip hospitals, especially those hospitals with a reference level III, i.e. those that provide highly specialised services in this area to equip with specialized equipment. This appropriation is intended to cover the purchase of equipment, medical equipment, particularly in the field of oncology, pediatrics, surgery, and neonatological departments, as I said, in the third level of reference. The planned amount for this task was 123 800 thousand. PLN, including oncology, pediatrics and paediatric surgery - 63 800 thousand. PLN and in the field of neonatology - 60 million PLN. The remaining funds of this amount were intended, as I said, to equip preventive offices in schools - that's 134 million, to purchase dentobuses - 24 million. As regards the purchase of medical equipment and equipment in this respect to hospitals, so-called. funds of 118 050 000 were transferred to which the Minister had no legal title prior to the entry into force of this law. zł. As I said, it was dedicated to hospitals that provide oncology, pediatrics and surgery, as well as neonatology. As a result, 57 contracts were signed with field hospitals, more than 1,200 items of equipment were purchased, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They were all kinds of life-saving devices. In addition, an additional 323 664 thousand were transferred in addition to the specialty. zł, e.g. at the Air Rescue Center, the Central Centre for Sports Medicine and blood donation points. So that in total in 2017 approximately 580 million were spent to equip the branches. I would like to stress that 114 million have been spent over the last eight years. This is the proportion between these expenses. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Dariusz Starzycki and Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club, about helping people in debt spirals. The question was addressed to the Minister of Justice. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Those who are in a difficult material situation can be said: in a difficult situation of life. When they fall into debt spirals, they can't handle it. Of course, someone could say that they signed contracts, took loans, loans, and they owed themselves. However, there are a lot of random situations - accident, illness, sudden dismissal - when people in such a situation are forced to take a loan or loan. Later, having trouble paying, they face the execution of the bailiff, the auction of the house, the apartment. That's when their lives actually collapse. I think that the state should find some way to support these people in difficulty. I have a question: Does the Ministry monitor these threats, do the Ministry have statistics, know the scale of this problem? Are there any measures taken to help these people?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u91	Please, Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One element of life stability and a comprehensive solution to the debt problem is the consumer bankruptcy, which in some part allows debt to be repaid, but above all it allows those who have gone into debt spirals to start over. However, almost half of applications for consumer bankruptcy have recently been dismissed by the courts. Therefore, I have questions: What is the reason for such a large number of rejections? Does the Ministry plan to introduce any solutions that will improve the functioning of this instrument? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u93	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u94	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is indeed a big problem, a social problem too, and I am glad that this question has been asked because the Ministry is aware of the complete imperfection of the current consumer bankruptcy rules. With this in mind, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro has set up a team of experts who has actually been working for the Ministry of Justice for a year and who has presented concrete solutions. It can be said that in the days, any day, certainly still in January, it is probably a matter of a few days, they will be addressed to inter-ministerial consultations and, consequently, will be made public. This is a detailed draft amendment to the Insolvency Law. The solutions prepared include: the fact that persons who cannot benefit from an extension using a consumer bankruptcy institution in their current legal state will be able to do so. This is primarily about people, quoting the current legal situation, the current law: which led to their insolvency or significantly increased its degree intentionally, as a result of gross negligence. Given that the conditions set out in the current legal situation are very different from those interpreted by the courts - and that is why the statistics that the Member wanted to quote - we have proposed not to close the way for these people to delay. However, there is a need for a different regulation, a different inclusion of this issue in the regulation. The consequence of inappropriate behaviour, especially inappropriate behaviour that led to this insolvency, but, that is important and it must be stressed, it cannot be a crime, it is not to be prohibited to prolong these people as it is at the moment, only it will be an extension of the repayment plan for 3 years, which is foreseen for a fair debtor up to a maximum of 7 years, an additional reservation: unless for humanitarian reasons, due to legitimate reasons, the waiver of liabilities will be indicated without fixing the repayment plan. In addition, the project introduces an opportunity - and this is also a very important, important change - to enter into an agreement with creditors without declaring bankruptcy and investigating the causes of insolvency as such an alternative to declaring bankruptcy on existing terms. Such an arrangement will be limited to 5 years and will, as a general rule, provide for partial remission of liabilities. So we have a deal, a part of the liabilities will be decommitted precisely by its conclusion, and we assume that creditors will decide to enter into this kind of arrangement with the debtor, first of all aware of the possibility of declaring its bankruptcy, which will be an alternative to non-contractual arrangements and will bring much less returns for creditors than the execution of this agreement. Legal assistance - this is also a major change that will be included in this project - in the preparation and selection of the best way out of the debt spiral will be provided in the framework of advice from restructuring advisers who are already in operation, as well as in the framework of free legal assistance in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 5 August 2015. As I said at the beginning, the project will be submitted to inter-ministerial consultations in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Jerzy Paul. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about this subject. Is it possible and how to punish banks or parabanks that misreputably calculated the credit capacity of those who tried to obtain credit, which could have led the borrower into insolvency, and what could have led him into a spiral of debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u97	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it can be said that banks will be punished by a consumer bankruptcy institution itself, because it will make it possible to extend, i.e. de facto not to pay off some of the debts that have necessarily arisen. This is the solution that we will submit to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current meeting of the Sejm will consider information on the implementation of the operational programmes in the field of cohesion policy implemented by the European Funds in the period 2014-2020, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wojciech Zubowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u100	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the end of 2015, just after the rule of law and justice was taken over, information on the threat of losing EU funds from the previous financial perspective appeared in the media. This included, for example, the rolling stock manufacturer, the Bydgoszcz Pesa. This made it necessary to carry out the contracted works by the end of the year, and thus forced the plant to work on holidays. As it turned out later, this could have been expected much earlier. Here it is worth mentioning the Business Centre Club report published in October 2014, which indicated that from the time of its publication until the end of 2015, approximately PLN 82 billion had to be spent on European Union funds, which was about 5.5 billion per month. In view of the ability to absorb EU funds, this risked not to use the amount of PLN 16.24 billion. The most at risk of losing these funds were the most expensive and very important programmes from the point of view of the economy, i.e. infrastructure, such as investments in railway infrastructure. What were the effects of this, we could see in the winter of 2015. The current financial perspective, for the 2014-2020 period, is EUR 82.5 billion from EU cohesion policy, of which almost EUR 77 billion is available for investment under six national programmes. We can talk about Operational Programmes: Infrastructure and Environment, Intelligent Development, Knowledge, Education, Development, Poland digital, Eastern Poland and Technical Assistance, as well as sixteen regional operational programmes. Poland's effective use of cohesion policy measures has a positive impact on the process of socio-economic development at local, regional and national level. This is why it is important to ensure the proper pace of implementation of the operational programmes, on the one hand ensuring the full use of the money available to Poland within the European Union budget and, on the other hand, guaranteeing the proper quality of development investments. The beginning of the new year is an appropriate time to take stock of the actions related to the implementation of the operational programmes in the field of cohesion policy 2014 and-2020, which are coordinated by the Minister for Development. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. What is the state of implementation of the operational programmes for the period 2014 to 2020? And what progress has been made in implementing operational programmes co-financed by cohesion policy at the end of 2017? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u101	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Paweł Ensign, representative of the Ministry of Development, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u102	Dear Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, I might start with information on the progress in implementation or closing the 20072013 perspective. As Mr Zubowski mentioned, in the last financial perspective, in December 2015, we were faced with problems relating above all to the full use of funds from programmes such as the infrastructure and environment programme or national programmes at all. I think that such positive news is that the 20072013 infrastructure and environment programme, the largest programme in the history of the European Union, was closed last December. The European Commission has given us 5% so-called. the final closure balance that is retained. European Commission pays up to 95% Total allocation, 5% stops to clarify all doubts and close all projects. These funds have been transferred. Also the second largest programme from the perspective of 2007 The measures from the 2007 to 2013 perspective for closing the final balance have been transferred. So that this is probably also the measure of success associated with the recovery plan, which was implemented in the end of 2015. There were a number of doubts as to whether the actions that were taken by the government immediately after the start of its mandate would be effective or whether these ad hoc actions would be effective. Today we can say that the payment of funds from the European Commission confirms the correctness of the actions carried out at the time. It is also worth highlighting that national programmes are implemented more efficiently, faster and more efficiently in the 2014-2020 perspective than regional programmes. I would like to remind you that this is different from what we had in the 2007-2013 perspective, for example in the context of the recovery plan, when we were struggling with the programme difficulties, especially national programmes. What's the situation today? By the end of last year more than 72 thousand were placed. proposals under all programmes of the new financial perspective for a total amount of almost PLN 460 billion. This is the coverage of nearly 90% of the total allocation that was submitted for use by Poland. That's 72,000. applications were successful in almost half, because we have 31 thousand. contracts for projects implemented or projects completed for the amount of nearly PLN 278 billion, i.e. approx. 53% the entire allocation. What is worth pointing out, in the 2014-2020 perspective, apart from the so-called. The certification plan, which provides for the setting of levels for each operational programme or the objectives of the transfer of funds to the European Commission, is also called. a cultivation plan. This plan was exceeded by 3% because we assumed that in 2017 we would contract half of the funds. As far as spending is concerned, here we have over PLN 54 billion, which has been certified cumulatively from the beginning of the financial perspective to Brussels. What is worth emphasising, the forecast, which was prepared by Poland, has been realized. I do not yet know the data on how this translates to the level of the European Union as a whole, but it can be assumed from the discussions that I also had with the representatives of the European Commission that Poland will be once again one of the countries that implemented it. In 2016, we were the only country that realized our forecast, and this year we will probably also be the only or one of the few countries that realized this forecast. At first, I mentioned differences in national programmes and regional programmes. While the forecast at national level has been substantially exceeded, there is a large failure at regional programme level. Of course, this does not mean that all regional programmes are being implemented at an equal pace. We have programs with a high level of advancement, such as. programme of Opole Voivodship, program of Pomorskie Voivodship, these are programs that should be distinguished in a positive way, but there are also a number of programs that are at a very low level. This is mainly the Podlaskie Voivodship, Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodship, Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. In many cases, these programmes have about 6 and 7%. expenditure certified to the European Commission at an average of 12% . If we are talking about contracting measures, it is 57% for national programmes the measures covered by the agreements, in regional programmes this is 47% measures. Similarly, when we are talking about the purpose of certification - I was talking about exceeding the level of national programmes 102, the objective of the Council of Ministers for regional programmes: 53%. Also - it is worth noting, because very often the regions say that the Council of Ministers' forecast was a forecast set by the government - a forecast which the managing authorities themselves have submitted to the European Commission has not been made. So, as far as the summary of this year is concerned, we can say that we already have a perspective of 2014.2020, which is going in full steam. All the so-called problems have been solved. ex ante conditionality. Poland has no condition at the moment, which would not have been fulfilled, also the most difficult problem related to the Water Directive was solved last year. This is also one of the better results for the large beneficiaries of cohesion policy. We have put a very strong emphasis on the financial instruments announced in the Responsible Development Strategy. Indeed, the amount which has been transferred to the reverse instruments has increased. Moreover, we already have cases of full turnover under the so-called. advance payment, i.e. 60% the funds which have been transferred to the operator of the financial engineering instrument have been paid in the form of guarantees, loans or other repayable instruments, which have enabled the re-application of a further tranche. What is worth emphasising is that the payments submitted to Poland last year are 27% all payments which have been made to the Member States. This is indeed more than our overall share of cohesion policy. The tangible effects of individual support areas, such as for example, deserve a great deal of attention. the expansion of broadband networks, including the connection of schools to the Internet - this is one of the flagship projects that are being carried out in the "Digital Poland" programme - road infrastructure projects, including so-called projects. large, for which the expenditure represents a percentage of the funds transferred under the infrastructure and the environment programme. I mentioned the feedback instruments. There are also activities aimed at young people. So that this year we are also planning to submit to the Council of Ministers [[♪ The bell ♪]] in January forecasts for 2018. She will assume the use of more than 3/4 of the appropriations in terms of contracts and the certification of more than 20% of the funds available by 2023. We assume that we should avoid the scenario in the 2014-2020 perspective...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u103	Thank you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Investment and Development Paweł Ensign: ...from the perspective of 2007-2013, i.e. 2023 leave actually for closing, not... Come to the end, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Investment and Development Paweł Ensign: ...to contract funds. Thank you. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members have come to the discussion. Anyone else from the ladies and gentlemen want to speak? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. And you will be the first to speak by Mr Jarosław Nobletka, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the Marshal of Małopolska Voivodship, our voivodship, Małopolska, is using European funds at a good pace. The regional authorities say that they are doing everything they can to keep pace, so they shorten procedures, simplify evaluation criteria, speed up recruitment, but this is completely in contradiction with the actual implementation of the Malopolska regional operational programme in terms of contracting. A number of criticisms on the weak, snailing pace of the competitions announced, the issuing of competition decisions, the signing of contracts are reported by local government officials, social organisations, associations or entrepreneurs. Within the framework of the MRPO, over 1800 contracts with European Union funding amounting to PLN 5 billion were signed with the beneficiaries, representing only 41.2% available allocation at average cultivation for 16 RPOs of 47,3% allocation. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Is it true that Małopolska is among the regions in the tail, taking only 13. position in 16 voivodships, in RPO ranking in terms of use of allocation at contract level? And the second question: Minister, is it true that the beneficiaries' payment applications only amount to 973.8 million European Union funding, which represents only 8.1% allocation, with an average for 16 RPO at the level of 8.4 allocations, which makes my region, Małopolska, only 10th place against other regions in terms of use in regional operational programmes of allocation at the level of payments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The tardiness of the government, the current government, on the use of EU funds will be spoken by Mr Tomczyk in a moment and I wanted to draw attention to one thing. Decentness and honesty dictates that in the discussion on cohesion policy remind us today how EUR 82 billion has been negotiated for Poland. Already during the Polish Presidency, i.e. in 2011, when the meeting of ministers responsible for cohesion policy took place in Sopot, Poland and then Minister Dowgiewicz managed to direct the discussion about cohesion policy to the tracks we wanted. We have managed to convince our European partners that cohesion policy is the interest of the European Union as a whole and that the benefits of cohesion policy are mutual. And that's when it started in Sopot, during the Polish Presidency. We were missing one partner back then. We were missing one partner who totally criticized everything that was going on during the Presidency. Who was that? It was a total opposition, PiS. It was a total opposition, PiS, which in no way helped Poland at the time. I regret this, but nevertheless, when the final negotiations took place in the next financial perspective, Prime Minister Tusk was able to gather 15 friends of cohesion policy and managed to win this EUR 82 billion for Poland. This is a great achievement of Poland and today all regions in Poland benefit from it. Finally, the appeal: do not waste it, because everything is going in this direction, that the next financial perspective will be a disaster for Poland, because you do not even have one partner in the European Union. Donald Tusk had 15 partners, you have no partner, and everything is going to make sure that Poland's funds in the next perspective do not admit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that today, halfway through our term of office, we are talking about the advancement of unutilisedness, good use and use of the funds of this amount of 82.5 billion. We're really glad she's like that. We cross our fingers and wish the best for all formalities to be completed during this new period of preparation for negotiations and that the amounts that affect our economic, social, but also political lives can also be negotiated. Minister Ensign - I am convinced that we can discuss here, because I was given the previous term of office to be at meetings in the Ministry and the Minister tried to talk about concrete things and always knew what he was talking about, and it is not an attempt to please - this report shows that in these national programmes the use of these funds is much better, their use is almost halfway through. If possible, I have a question: How is the use of funds under the Eastern Poland programme going? Will this change in accents and quotas be good for us? The second aspect is the regional operational programmes, because in different voivodships this assessment will vary, feelings will vary. Are the mechanisms used from the previous mandate based on pre-arrays [[♪ The bell ♪]] well fit into the implementation of these voivodship programs, or not necessarily and should they be changed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u109	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to warmly welcome the young people of Paradisa, who are watching our debate today and looking at the work in the Seym. Welcome. [[Applause]] Now I invite Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The term of office of the self-government 2018 and 2023 will be the period of transit between the European Union's long-term financial perspectives. During this period, the perspective of 2014.2020 will be closed and a new one will be prepared and implemented after 2020. It will be important to make maximum use of the funds available and to settle the contracted funds. At the same time, the effort will have to be directed towards negotiating the maximum available pool from the new distribution to those areas that will be strategic for development. Poland will remain a beneficiary of European funds, but there are symptoms that show that financial transfers under cohesion policy will be lower. This must lead to an in-depth socio-economic analysis in order to identify precisely the areas of support. The primary objective should be the objective of sustainable and solidarity-based development of all parts of the territory, preventing the marginalisation of less prosperous or less urbanised areas. The implementation of external funds should, in my opinion, be based on two pillars, and here I am thinking primarily of my Opolskie voivodship. Above all, on the infrastructure pillar. There are still great needs in this field when it comes to railways or roads. The second pillar is related to the so-called. social tissue and public services, i.e. support for entrepreneurship, especially the SME sector, which generates jobs, families, here I mean kindergartens, daycares, and the labour market, and serves to stop migration, adverse demographic processes and the drain of intellectual potential, here I mean support for universities and education. Hence my question: Is such an in-depth socio-economic analysis in view of the next perspective already being carried out in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u111	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Caesar Tomczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were many words here, and very interesting ones. I think we should talk, first of all, about determinants, and secondly, about some verification. So when it comes to determinants, the road construction system in Poland was always symbolic, both when it comes to the construction of motorways and expressways, so let's look at these determinants. The first 500 days of Donald Tusk's government, 2007: over 1000 km of expressways and motorways. It's a contract, it's a signed contract. The first 500 days of PiS government, you can guess: 37 km. 1000.37. I understand that even you see a difference here. [[Granda.]] The second thing is verification. You were talking about local governments, you were talking about using EU funds. The NIK report, which recently appeared, makes it clear that it is the government's strategy papers and the delay in preparing them that was a problem when it comes to the use of EU funds. According to the NIK report, in mid-2017. Poland occupied, attention, 20th place in the European Union in terms of contracting. The 20th place in 27 or 28 countries depends on the period to which we will assign it. Earlier we had you under construction, we had highways, we had express roads, sewage treatment plants. Today you are offering us stagnation instead of you. We were supposed to raise our diplomacy from our knees. Indeed, Polish diplomacy rose from its knees, but fell on its face: from being a leader we fell to 20th place in the European Union when it comes to contracting EU funds. We've become a stagnation state from your construction. Indeed, this is simply an achievement at the level of the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u113	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u114	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! An effective programme for the implementation of EU measures has a major impact on the development of our country and region. This is noticeable, especially when travelling in our country. We can also see that national programmes are implemented more efficiently than regional ones. I have extensive experience in implementing EU projects in the fields of education, science and culture. I am particularly interested in the Digital Poland programme. It is a flagship programme aimed at schools and young people. Young people waited long for such solutions, teachers waited. I have a question for the Minister: How are the implementation of EU programmes in relation to the Knowledge, Education, Development programme presented at present? How many schools will be included in the digitalisation programme? When will that be? Next question. How will the government support with EU funds mainly voivodship and district cities? Is there a specific programme planned to support the construction of especially those neglected by previous years of district and communal roads? I also have a question about my region. When will the contract be signed and the section of the S7 express road connecting Warsaw and Gdańsk be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u115	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u116	Good morning. Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I feel like I'm in some kind of theater, and it's not a theater. We are acting in the interest of the Polish State, because you are asking for information from a Member who is already the head of the Permanent Committee today will be an influential person. He is asking for information that is really going to prove only one thing: that the PiS government is doing a great job of implementing funds, and that governments in the election year are miserably implementing funds. Why? That's because the government has a 45% contract. and local governments - only at 40%. This is a pure policy that does not serve the Polish state. Minister, it is a shame that you, as a professional, are taking part in this, as far as the fact that it is Podkarpacie, where PiS rules, drags down the level of use when it comes to local governments and Pomorskie, which is the bastion of the Platform, pulls this level up. So you're doing it yourself. [[Applause]] But that's not the point. The point is that your recipe for the use of European funds is: to paralyze local governments, to introduce CBA checks into all marshal offices, which find nothing, but for a year they paralyze work, take Polish waters and do nothing for a year, have no projects, and this is about using regional programs, take environmental funds, completely paralyze them for a year, and finally come out and say that local authorities are not doing well. It's so weak, so embarrassing, I don't even know how to comment on it. After all, it is a question of the use of funds by Poland. We used them so well, because no one played such games as you are playing now, no one watched whether it was the PiS-owski, PSL-owski or platform government. Self-governments were just using the funds. Don't mess up this system for any of your ad hoc political interests - such a hot request. Don't brag, 'cause even when it comes to using at 45% If it weren't for Paweł Olszewski, if it weren't for the Platform government and the tenders that were announced at the last moment in 2015, you wouldn't have anything to brag about, because in fact, only the roads and contracts that we started are pulling. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the use of your funds. It's a joint venture. Don't make this a policy, because it's just not worth it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u118	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Eastern Poland Operational Programme 2014-2020 is an instrument to support the economic development of five voivodships, including the Podkarpackie voivodship. In Podkarpackie Voivodship a pilot program for start-ups was conducted, so-called. launch platforms for new ideas, action 1.1., aimed at young people, was about innovative business. This programme ended in 2017. I have a few questions for the Minister: What are the results of this piloting? How many companies have started their business with this program? Will this task continue in 2018? And if so, what will be the scale of this action, and what will be the planned budget? Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u119	Thank you. Mr Marek Krzłoła, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u120	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today's current information about funds spent under cohesion policy shows that the money raised by the previous government of POs and PSL - more than PLN 400 billion, of which over PLN 330 billion have been allocated to cohesion policy - is actually spent well by local governments. The government boasts of other people's successes, because if it weren't for local governments whose powers you're limiting and which powers you're threatening by sending different committees, you wouldn't have anything to say today, and that balance would be really miserable. But I wanted to ask the government's representative about the following thing in view of this trend of your departure from the European Union, because in this narrative of yours, you are still saying "oni," it is a bad Union, as if you forgot that since 2004 we have been a member of the European Union. Tell me how you want to find your allies and what strategy you have for gaining similar funds in the new financial perspective after 2020, because when your main ally, the United Kingdom, leaves the budget, there will be a shortage of around €10.13 billion a year, of which about 30% all these measures are currently being spent on cohesion policy, and these measures are to be reduced. And above all, the article was launched against Poland. 7 the EU Treaty, which states that there is a breach of the rule of law. What if rules are built that link payouts to the requirement of self-government? How are you going to convince the sovereign? Because your shoe says everyone else is wrong, but not you: the Venice Commission is wrong, the European Commission, the European Parliament is wrong, the UN or the US State Department. What strategy do you have to bring in comparable funds after 2020? Because maybe it's enough to respect democratic principles and values, to be co-responsible and solidarity-based, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then you're gonna make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u121	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u122	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The use of EU funds by our country remains very high and Poland is one of the leaders among the Member States of the European Union in this area. But there is a large gap between the implementation of national programmes and the implementation of regional programmes: national programmes are much more effective than regional ones. In addition, there is also a similar situation in the regions, for example, leaders. Pomerania, Wielkopolska and Opole, and traditionally the biggest problems with the use of European funds can be seen in Lublin, Warmia-Mazury or Świętokrzyskie regions. I wanted to ask what this discrepancy is about and what it would be necessary to do or change so that cohesion policy can deliver the expected results in order, as we know, to compensate for social and economic disparities in the regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u123	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Cohesion policy for the years 2014 and 2020 is a huge opportunity for the Podlaskie voivodship, especially for the north-eastern Poland voivodships, but also for other regions of our country. I represent the Podlaskie Voivodeship. It is a voivodship which expects very efficient use of funds from this cohesion policy, because these are measures which guaranteed that access to high-quality pre-school education will be available in the Podlaskie voivodship, there will be an improvement in the coverage of the rail and road network, or there will be a greater share of renewable energy. Today it looks very bad, because, as mentioned here, we do not have a high share of the allocation of the use of these funds. The agreements at the end of 2017 are concluded at 24% Possibilities. Applications for payment shall be at 2,5% the allocation of European Union funds. I am afraid that almost EUR 1200 million, or nearly PLN 5 billion, will not be used. What are the reasons for this? The NIK has written audit proposals for you in 2017 and clearly explains what needs to be done in order to make the right use of these funds. In addition, regions also point to barriers that exist. These are among others. significant delays in the adoption of directional documents, e.g. river basin management plans, legislative delays, e.g. Law on revitalization, Waste Act, Public Procurement Law, Public Aid Regulation. These are all laws for which it decides at national and government level. Limited potential directory [[♪ The bell ♪]] applicants, significant delays in implementation...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u125	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u126	...related to the amendment of the implementation law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u127	Thank you. Now Mrs Katarzyna Czochara, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u128	What will the Ministry of Development take to increase efficiency in the use of... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u129	You're welcome. Ma'am, you've used your time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The infrastructure and environment programme has also planned a very large amount of funding for the implementation of important tasks in this context, including: Road. Minister! My question is: What specific road investments under this programme will be implemented in the Opolskie Voivodeship? Why am I asking this? Minister, the Opolskie voivodeship runs the A4 motorway, which is very often very heavily corked, and national media often inform drivers about it. There's a need to build a third lane on the A4 motorway. Another very important aspect is the construction of a junction of exits from the A4 motorway in the vicinity of Opole. Opole, a voivodship city, is probably the only voivodship city in our country that does not have adequate access to the highway. These two road and investment problems have been repeatedly raised by the Law and Justice. Of course, it is a long-standing negligence of the previous team of the governing Civic Platform and PSL. My question is: What are the plans for these two important investments? In this context, is it possible to approach this issue, for example, by preparing documentation? If so, I would very much ask you to give me an approximate deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. You're welcome. The Member has two minutes today, I'm sure it'll fit. [[Maybe you won't turn off my marshal today.]] I turn it off after a minute, and two minutes is an ocean of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber's audit concluded at the end of last year that progress in spending European Union funds is far from satisfactory. The level of expenditure verified as correctly incurred and declared for refunds is low. And what quality are the applications for money? Even on my turf, I have an example. How many times has the current government applied to the Connecting Europe Facility to complete the missing section of the S1, i.e. bypassing the Hungarian Górka? So what? And negative. I still don't see the budget for this. This is the most expected priority investment in the south of Poland. I have a question: Why is so little money supporting our local governments in the fight against smog? This should be a priority in this programming period, because the health of Poles should be in the first place. It is hardly surprising if the government, instead of the rapid and effective use of EU funds, focuses on changes in the law that do not serve good relations between Poland and the European Union. As a result, we have more than just an article. 7 but also the ideas of Brussels to reduce funds in the new EU budget, which may affect Poland. In May we will get to know the budget of the Union for the coming years, negotiations will begin. How important will the voice of Poland defending cohesion funds in this context be? We have more than 400 billion at our disposal, the funds that Prime Minister Donald Tusk has negotiated. But [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can a good change do it? I don't see the results yet. It's a good thing you're noticing...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u133	And yet you haven't even been able to fit in two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u134	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the programmes implemented under this cohesion policy is the Operational Programme Knowledge, education and development. This programme, aimed mainly at employment services, was intended to serve the youth employment initiative, the situation of which at the beginning of this century, and especially at the beginning of this decade, when it comes to starting the labour market, was very bad, resulting in so many emigration of young people to the West. Hence my questions: What does it look like today, i.e. mid-life of this programme, its effectiveness? What resources have already been spent for this purpose? How much have these measures produced concrete results? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club. He's late, but he's in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would ask for a very short answer. What are the implementation of the programmes, the national and regional ones that work better? I am particularly interested in the situation of Pomerania - Gdansk, this region. What does this realization look like? I know that there were some measures in these regional programs blocked in connection with the Kashubian route. What does it look like right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The managing authorities of operational programmes shall set up monitoring committees which shall act as advisory and advisory bodies. But unfortunately, in previous years, the guidelines for monitoring and evaluation were not clear and uniform, which hindered the smooth operation of these committees. Therefore, I have a few questions: Will there be a uniform principle of monitoring operational programmes now? What are the tangible benefits of the monitoring committees? Have all committees in previous programmes and in previous years received a positive assessment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u142	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! Between 2014 and 2020 Poland is expected to receive around €77.6 billion in total under cohesion policy, including: 51.2 EUR billion for less developed regions, 2.2 EUR 23.2 billion for more developed regions under the Cohesion Fund, EUR 700 million for European territorial cooperation and EUR 252 million for the Youth Employment Initiative. From the European Social Fund Poland is to receive EUR 12.8 billion. My question, Minister, is: How much money did Poland receive or used in 2014? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice. Isn't there one? Mr Piotr Olszówka, Law and Justice. Mother, there's no one here. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. Where have these fellow Members gone? [[On the committee.]] Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. I can't see either. [[Reconstructed.]] But I saw Mrs Anna Krupka, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member. You're saving the club's honor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, my constituency, is one of the least-exploited regions of the EU. In terms of contracting concluded contracts, it is the last place in Poland. The Management Board of the voivodship with the Marshal of PSL Adam Jarubas on 1 December 2017 concluded contracts for only less than 26% value of the entire program, Regional Operational Programme of the Świętokrzyskie Voivodship. As confirmed by the European Commission, so-called expenditure. Certificates, at the beginning of December 2017, amount to just slightly over 285 million PLN from the available amount of approx. 5 billion PLN. During the session of the Świętokrzyskie Sejm, I asked Marshal Jarubas whether he had prepared a plan for repair, whether such a program could exist and whether the Marshal could already implement this plan for the Świętokrzyski RPO. I didn't get an answer. What may be the consequences of the tardiness of Marshal Jarubas' institution? What may be the consequences of not taking action to reverse this disadvantage for Świętokrzyskie voivodship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u145	Thank you very much. We've run out of MPs. I would like the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Paweł Ensign. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I may try to group your speeches into blocks, from more general to completely detailed questions. First question, Art. 7 and the future financial perspective. This is not just a position of Poland concerning art. 7 and the rule of law procedures. As regards binding it to the allocations in the future financial budget, in the future budget of the European Union, I remind you that similar statements, that these two issues should not be tied up, were not only from representatives of the Polish authorities or countries which are most benefiting from this assistance, but also from the high representatives of the European Commission, including its President. The question is whether cohesion policy, which is a policy of equal opportunities in the social, economic and territorial dimensions, is appropriate policy as regards the instrument used by the European Union for this type of action. Let me remind you that the main criterion in the previous financial perspectives was the level of economic development below 75% average GDP per capita. Therefore, in principle, all regions outside Mazovia of Poland were eligible for this purpose and received high aid. We have a completely different situation right now. At least four Polish regions will exceed 75% GDP. I am talking here about the EU sub-region excluded from statistics, which exceeds 109% average GDP, but also regions such as Wielkopolska, Silesia, possibly Lower Silesia, possibly also Pomeranian. They can be found in a group of regions which will no longer be low-developed regions within the meaning of the European Union. Of course, it is not possible at the moment to talk about the amount of the budget, the amount of allocations per Member State, but in the case of several regions, looking at the level of economic development, the allocation will fall, as was the case. For example, in the case of the Mazowieckie voivodship in the perspective of 2014.2020. Here the wording was such that the regional programmes, that cohesion policy is being implemented in a tragic way, that the 2014-2020 perspective is a band of government failures. I can only answer in this way: if yes, it's 40%. these failures concern local governments of voivodships, which account for 40% of the allocation that we have at our disposal. I'm just presenting numbers. I'd be happy to share these numbers with you. It is not political that we have much better use in national programmes than in regional programmes. Yes, sir. Nor is it a political thesis that Poland received 1/3 of all payments at EU level in 2016 and 27% in 2017. These are facts, these are figures that can also be verified at European level. Now I move on to more specific questions. As far as regional programmes are concerned, there have been questions about the various regions. Again, as I mentioned in my introductory statement, the situation is very different. It is not that one measure is applied to all regional programmes. We have regional programmes that are very advanced, above, definitely above average. I mentioned Opolskie voivodship, Pomorskie voivodship and Wielkopolska voivodship. On the other hand, we have regions at a very low level, such as Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship - 31% signed contracts with an average of 53%. It is the same if we are talking about payments. These are payments of 6 and 7%. with an average of 12% . It is about the Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship, the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, the Podlaskie voivodship mentioned earlier by me. There was also a question about the Małopolskie Voivodship. It's also below average. So that this situation is very different, which also contradicts the claim that there is a policy that would prevent regions from carrying out their projects efficiently under the 2014-2020 perspective. The numbers don't add up. As regards the more detailed questions concerning individual programmes, the Eastern Poland programme is currently one of the highest contracts in the 2014-2020 perspective, reaching around 70%. the entire allocation. The vast majority of the infrastructure projects that are being implemented in this programme have been contracted. There was also a question about the so-called. start-up platforms. Let me remind you that the launch platforms in Eastern Poland were a pilot initiative aimed at checking and stimulating innovation in the five regions covered by this programme. We succeeded, the results are so positive that in April this year another round of this program will be launched. As far as digital Poland is concerned, in August this year 8 thousand. schools will be connected to the Internet with a capacity of at least 100 Mbps. Let me remind you that we have more than 10,000 in contracts. schools that can access it. This is possible thanks to the changes that were made by the Ministry of Digitalization in 2016, when in addition to households, schools with Internet capacity greater than for households were included, because there the elimination of white spots concerns 30 MB/s. As for S7, this week it is planned to sign a contract for the next section of S7, from the border of the Mazowieckie voivodship towards Warsaw. Since it is created in the design and construction system, it is planned to sign a contract under the On the issue of countering youth unemployment, I would like to remind you that 10 of the Polish regions were qualified for a special tranche of EU funding, the Youth Initiative. The main criterion that was eligible for this perspective was unemployment above 25%. At the moment, a search was carried out. No Polish region outside Podkarpacie, which has slightly exceeded 25%, is no longer eligible, i.e. all these regions have significantly reduced youth unemployment. It was because of the fact that more than 200,000. Young people who are not learning, who are not working, are not in the training and education system, that 217 000. We have covered these people with various activation activities. Which is also very important, about 14% from this group set up its own business, in general in terms of success, 60% people have succeeded, i.e. either they have taken up work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or it's back in the school system. What is also important, these are qualitatively good jobs. These are at least three months' employment contracts or identical to them. If these are non-codex contracts, they must meet the same conditions that meet the employment contract, so this is not any contract that a young person gets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland (prints Nos 2120 and 2163). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to submit to the High House a report of the committee on the government draft law on special arrangements for organising a session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland. At the meeting of the committee in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we developed a position. COP24 in Poland will take place in Katowice from 3 to 14 December 2018. The session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is the most important global forum on global climate policy. The COP24 conference will be attended by representatives of almost all countries of the world. In Katowice it is possible to expect approx. 20 and 30 thousand. Guests. The capital of Upper Silesia has adequate infrastructure facilities and is excellent to show how important Poland attaches to energy and climate policy. Thanks to the organisation of this conference, our country will have a significant impact on the negotiations on climate change, energy and the green economy for 2 years - 2018 and 2019. The conference will be an excellent forum for promoting Polish innovative achievements and will strengthen our position in creating climate policy, as well as the image of the country involved in solving global problems. Poland has the necessary experience to carry out such a large project. She was already the organizer of COP14 in Poznań in 2008 and COP19 in Warsaw in 2013. The Government's draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland provides for solutions enabling the efficient and safe organisation of a climate conference in Poland, which will take place in Katowice on 3 and 14 December 2018. The Council of Ministers decided by a resolution of 15 November 2016 to notify the candidacy of the Republic of Poland as host of the COP24 conference. Given the size and international nature of the conference and the challenges associated with its organisation and the role of the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties to which the current laws are not sufficient, the draft law sets out the tasks of public administrations and the services involved in hosting the COP24 conference. The proposed regulations detail the tasks of public administrations and services related to the organisation of conferences in Poland, the principles of financing these tasks, as well as the temporary arrangements necessary to ensure security. The tasks indicated in the draft are, inter alia, related to: ensuring security and public order. In this respect, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration will play a leading role in cooperation with the United Nations Department of Security. In particular, he was entrusted with coordinating the activities of all services involved in the organisation and in securing the conference. On the other hand, the Silesian voivode prepares a plan to ensure security during the conference. It is to be provided by the Silesian Voivodeship to relevant entities, including road managers covered by it, not later than 1 September 2018. The draft law on security for the participants of the conference provides for a number of specific arrangements resulting from the fact that special conditions arising from the agreement apply to this event and the fact that the provisions of the Law of 20 March 2009 on security of mass events do not apply to this event. In view of the above, in Article. The 12th Act proposes to require the Silesian Voivodeship to draw up a security plan in cooperation with the United Nations Security Department services during the conference. This plan will include a graphical plan of the facility drawn up separately for each facility in which the individual events of the conference will take place, together with a description of them, taking into account in particular the precise designation of the zone to be under the direct supervision and control of the United Nations Security Department. The plan should also include instructions for dealing with fires or other local hazards at the site and during individual events at the conference, meeting the requirements laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 5 of the Law of 20 March 2009 on the security of mass events. In addition, the plan will include emergency procedures and risk monitoring and alerting. The crisis situations covered by the draft law are not identical to those defined in the provisions of the Crisis Management Act of 26 April 2007. This is a broader concept and applies to any situation to which the services will be called. On the other hand, the term "other local threat" means a threat that is not a threat to life, health, property or the environment. In addition, the plan will define ways of ensuring medical protection and ways of social security. Social security includes, inter alia, provide the victims with warm clothing, blankets, food and temporary shelter. The Silesian Voivodeship shall forward the plan to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, the Minister for the Environment, the Chief of Police, the Chief of State Fire Department, the Chief Border Guard, the Head of the Internal Security Agency, hereinafter referred to as the ABW, and the Head of Government Protection Office, hereinafter referred to as the BOR, and to the extent appropriate, the competent road manager. This is due to the fact that the organisation of COP24 involves a particular terrorist threat, which requires increased participation of the ABW and BOR services. At the same time, it is necessary to transfer the plan to those carrying out those tasks in view of traffic organisation tasks. The Voivode has a duty to develop and transmit the plan of WW. Road authorities and road managers by 1 September 2018 As a result, road managers will have sufficient time to prepare projects for changes in traffic organisation and to ensure safety as planned. The transmission of the plan for security reasons must be carried out in accordance with the provisions in force so far concerning classified information. In addition, the project grants the Śląskie voivodship the power to introduce a temporary ban on the movement of vehicles with a maximum permissible weight exceeding 12 t and a ban on the carriage of dangerous goods in the Śląskie voivodship. Such a prohibition may be introduced in the form of an act of local law within which the period and the area of its validity are determined. This right is intended to increase road safety at the time of COP24 conference. It should be stressed that the Silesian voivode should be introduced in the context of the introduction of the above mentioned voivodeship. the prohibition to take into account the need to ensure the flow of traffic. In view of the security needs of the secretariat to be identified in the agreement, the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration was provided for by the United Nations Security Department. This support consists, for example. on the use of equipment to the United Nations Security Department. It should be stressed that if the gates and baggage control equipment are operated by Polish officials, this will not result in the establishment of a service liability for them by UN officials. The scope of support will be defined in detail in the agreement. The tasks listed above shall be financed under the measures referred to in Article. 23 projects. In view of the safety of COP24 participants and public policy during the COP24 conference, and in view of the importance and nature of the meeting, provisions on the granting of special powers to the Police have been designed. The draft provides for the granting of specific powers to the Police for the collection and processing of data on persons presenting a threat to security and public order, including those obtained and processed by other authorities and services, including through the performance of operational and exploratory activities, as well as those obtained and processed by law enforcement authorities of other countries. This right is temporary. The laws of similar nature were also included in the Act of 18 March 2016 on special arrangements related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. The provisions also provide for the possibility, at the request of the United Nations Department of Security, of checking by the Police persons with regard to the possibility that this person may pose a threat to security and public order at COP24. In view of the fact that the facilities at which the conference will take place, as required by the United Nations, are under the direct supervision and control of the United Nations Security Department, the draft provides that the activities of the Police and the Internal Security Agency concerning the area under the direct supervision and control of the United Nations Security Department or persons and the objects located in that area shall be undertaken in agreement with the United Nations Security Department services. It should be stressed that the arrangements for police powers relating to the organisation of COP24 conferences will not significantly affect citizens, as in principle the police have similar competences, which result from Chapter 3: The scope of the Police powers of the Police Act of 6 April 1990 on Police. The indication of additional regulations on how to communicate the information obtained and the time limit allowing its processing only improves the powers already held by the Police at COP24. The solutions contained in the draft law allow for the proper execution of activities to ensure the safety of its participants, as well as to outsiders at the venue of events, including the inhabitants of the Silesian agglomeration, and do not affect the rights held by citizens to a greater extent than they currently do. In view of the need to ensure security and public order at COP24 meetings and in the preceding week, i.e. from 26 November 2018 at 3 p.m. 0 until 16 December 2018 at 3 p.m. 23.59, participation in the spontaneous meetings referred to in Article is prohibited in Katowice. 3 (1) (a) 2 of the Law of 24 July 2015 on Assembly Law. It is stressed that this prohibition only applies to spontaneous gatherings, i.e. organised without prior notice. Thus, the project does not exclude the possibility of holding meetings with prior notice and under the conditions laid down in Article. 7 et seq. of the Law of 24 July 2015 on Assembly Law, because the regulations of this Law allow for the establishment of such conditions for the organisation of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u149	Member, please be concise.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u150	...which will not endanger public security and order. It should therefore be stressed that the project does not restrict the organisation of public meetings following prior notice and under the conditions laid down in Article. 7 et seq. of the Law of 24 July 2015 on Assembly Law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u151	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u152	I just wanted to finish with one very important point. Namely, yesterday, at first reading, the Sejm Analysis Office made four suggestions on what should be changed in the law which were not included, approved by the committee and are unjustified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Czesław Sobierajski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the government draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! As the rapporteur of the committee presented in detail the issues relating to the law and its resolution, I only mentioned this in a few sentences and then on the objectives and tasks of this conference. That's what I'm going to concentrate on. Since the bill defines the tasks of public administration bodies associated with the organisation of COP24 conferences in Poland, it is called in brief, and the principles of financing these tasks, including the temporary arrangements necessary to ensure the security of the conference. All these issues have been mentioned by the Member, it would be inappropriate to recall the details. So we should ask what is the purpose of the conference in Poland, exactly the one in Katowice. I would like to thank the government very warmly, the Minister, for being chosen as the venue for the conference. After all, in Silesia there are these main sensitive industries - coal, energy and steel - which are exceptionally exposed to restrictive provisions of the climate package, if they were such, and these are unfortunately today. That is why we want to present all these issues at this conference in order to ease these provisions or introduce a different policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The Paris Agreement of December 2015 was adopted unanimously by all countries, that is, the first such case entirely, and it was then Poland that made a key contribution to the fact that it was adopted unanimously. Why? It was Poland that proposed such an approach that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, including CO2, will take place on the basis of the specificities of national economies - concrete, not invented, but specific specificities. What does this mean for Poland? Well, it has a great meaning - it means that the Polish industry based on energy, on coal, is not supposed to disappear overnight, but we will, I hope, move on to it in a moment, the so-called. a road map at this conference, where we will complete the Paris Agreement with the content, the country-by-country investigation to the levels of this reduction, but based on the specificities of national economies. What does it matter to Poland? That's great. The second extremely important element once again adopted by all countries then - the Polish side proposed that forests, so specific, so it was called, I will quote a quote, digs like coal, forest coal economy, an amazing concept, but there is no such thing as that which consumes CO2 more than forests... And, surprisingly, everyone finally agreed to it, it was written down as a key issue for everyone to accept then. And we want now, I hope, at this COP24 conference, I am convinced that this will happen, that Poland will just propose a road map to come to that, that slowly, systematically it will follow - it will propose a rational road map, where the economies will be secured, sustainable development of countries, individual economies. This contribution will be absolutely crucial. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you with power that Poland is one of the absolute leaders, leading countries in the world, which have taken a reduction, and far above the standards adopted in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, where we have only committed to 6% Reductions - other countries up to 5% - and we reduced by 32%, which is actually 5 and 6 times more, without any restrictions, orders, etc., but based on 1990. Therefore, we cannot agree to what Prime Minister Tusk has signed - the climate package 3 x 20, so that the base will become 2005. There is no such thing in the Kyoto Protocol or in other climate agreements, there is a rule: 1990. And since we are a leading country, we have a huge surplus and we can say that we are organising a conference here because we are the leader of a rational climate policy. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, with hope, absolutely with hope, I look forward to this conference, believing that it will be an absolute breakthrough for a rational approach to climate policy. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u155	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, for the first time, the agreement was reached in Paris, the leader of this process was France, and was the Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, who proposed on behalf of France to change a little approach to the reduction objectives, seeing a stagnation in relation to the individual conferences that preceded Paris. He proposed to adopt a different principle, i.e. that individual countries declare how they want to achieve the intended reduction target. The meeting in Katowice will aim to find a common denominator for all these proposals, so that proposals from individual countries can actually be compared to how they actually affect the achievement of the effect, i.e. the reduction target. And this will be the main issue of the conference in Katowice. The so-called case. Forest coal farms were outlined in Paris, while in Poland we will indeed have to determine whether this goal will be adopted as a Polish reduction target, whether it will be taken into account and whether it will be comparable to the standards that will be applied in other countries. The present law sets out the tasks of public administrations and services related to the hosting of COP24. The tasks indicated in the draft concern, in particular, security and public order. In addition, as these are tasks requiring the involvement of several ministers and services, it is planned to set up a coordination team to organise COP24. The project shall also lay down, for security reasons, specific rules for the execution of contracts related to the organisation of COP24. So it would seem that these are fully legitimate objectives, but we, as the Civic Platform, believe that all these objectives can be achieved by applying the current legislation and implementing the decisions of the Prime Minister and individual ministers, need no law. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will apply for the rejection of the draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland. In addition, it is worth to say that this law proposes a substantial sum, because it is PLN 127 million, for preparation, but the draft law allows for the non-application of the principle of public procurement under the Public Procurement Law, i.e. a derogation from tenders. It should be stressed that the objective of the principle of transparency is to ensure not only participants in the proceedings, but also other interested parties have the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the information and documentation of the proceedings. And the government explains that, due to the rank, size and nature of the event, the disclosure of information related to its organisation could pose a significant threat to the security of the event. Let me just remind you that, on the occasion of World Youth Days, criminal acts have also taken place under the pretence of security and appropriate actions are taking place. Therefore, special attention should be paid to the fact that money should be used transparently and security should not be obscured. Therefore, as I said, we are applying to reject the project and to adopt another method of preparing this conference, in particular because the infrastructure in Katowice is ready. There is no need to invest in it, there is room for this conference to take place using existing facilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the government draft law on specific arrangements for the COP24 conference in print no. 2120. It is an amazing project at least. We are aware that when it comes to the commitments which Poland has accepted in various areas, if Poland has not declared them, it should implement them. And although as a Kukiz club15 we have serious doubts about the meaning of global climate protection activities in the world - they are actually serving, on the one hand, highly developed countries to dominate and so already globalised economy, and many of them do not care about the findings of various circles dealing with supposedly climate and nature protection, and on the other hand, they provide for the maintenance of various kinds of alterglobalistic organizations, in terms of the resulting international obligations of Polish tasks - we acknowledge that they must be done even when the Polish country costs a lot. One of these tasks is COP24. The present law covers tasks related to ensuring security and public order during the conference and in relation to the role of the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties, but the expenditure contained in it goes beyond that. The Act envisages spending PLN 30 million to support climate change mitigation and adaptation to the effects of climate change in developing countries. This is ridiculous. But the biggest absurdity is what the Office of Sejm Analysis pointed out - the way these funds were transferred. They'll be here. they are transferred through the Green Climate Fund or the Adaptation Fund or through bilateral aid programmes in the form of grants, which we will not have control over. But there is another serious thing, namely that the inclusion of this amount in the tasks of the conference is the result of the commitments that Prime Minister Beata Szydło adopted at the Paris Summit. Minister Sałek gave this opening to the joint meeting of the committee. Is it not possible to transfer these amounts in any other way than through COP24 and as a result of the depletion of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management? Another problem arising from this law is the introduction of the principle that part of the funds will be spent outside the competition procedure. The Public Procurement Act will be suspended. This is at least a big misunderstanding. The next issue to be raised is the granting of special powers to the CBA, which is supposed to control those tasks which are carried out outside the procedure of the Public Procurement Act. There is also serious doubt about the necessity to accept this speciality as a guarantee of a fair conference. After all, the summit in Katowice will not be as crucial as the previous summits, even the one in Paris. It will have a rather technical meaning. In Katowice, arrangements will be made for the practical implementation of the key elements of the Paris Agreement. So what's the point of this special act? When such conferences were organised in 2008 or 2013 in Warsaw, they were not preceded by separate legal acts. Or, among other things, in order to restrict the rights of citizens, their right to express their position and freedom of expression, as enshrined in Article. 22 proposed under legislation? This is an infringement of the right to participate in meetings guaranteed by Article. 57 constitutions. Poland covers the Presidency for the third time. It's the first time. This, of course, raises the international prestige of the Polish state, allowing for some better negotiating position. However, the Presidency of the conference does not assume the representation of a sovereign Polish state. In fact, the Presidency is not a representation of the sovereign Polish state, but a supranational body. As there is no great chance that the amendments proposed by us will be adopted, changes during the joint work of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we have tried to do so, we are in favour - to express our position - of rejecting the law in its entirety. There's one more reason to reject this bill. It's a legal contradiction. And it should be very embarrassing that the majority of Members at the joint committee meeting accepted the fatal formula that it would somehow be. I understand that substantive amendments can be dealt with at the next stages of legislation, but a bad legal situation cannot be introduced. Kukiz.15 is in favour of rejecting this law. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u159	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u160	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! From 3 to 15 December 2018, we will have a session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Katowice. This is a great opportunity for Poland, which has a huge problem with air pollution, which has been alarmed by the media in recent days. In addition, the project provides for a contribution by the National Environmental Fund of PLN 30 million in the framework of the achievement of the objectives of the Climate Convention, through the Green Climate Fund or the Adaptation Fund, to support developing countries in terms of climate change mitigation and adaptation to the effects of change. On Monday, representatives of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and Katowice said that the costs of organising the summit could be up to PLN 140 million. Only 12 million were reserved for this in the city budget. This is a very large amount and it is not entirely clear what these funds will be spent on. However, as pointed out in the BAS opinion, no cost estimates are presented by category of expenditure. This makes it impossible to assess whether the proposed amount is appropriate to the planned actions. However, he convinces, among others. that the money will also be used for the construction of the areas on which the summit will take place. There is certainly a need to set up an inter-ministerial assembly on the organisation of the summit, which will monitor the progress of the preparations for this event and supervise the implementation of its activities. The proposal would have been acceptable, gentlemen, if it had not been for some controversial provisions to which amendments were rejected at the stage of the committee's work and which my colleague spoke about. In some cases there is no convincing justification for special solutions in the proposed law. According to BAS, the creation of specifications for each such event does not serve to maintain the coherence of the legal system and can lead to erosion of the law as a general and abstract act. Another thing is to skip the open competition. That's the big downside of this bill. And we have an art. 22, which says that it is prohibited from midnight on 26 November 2018 until midnight on 16 December in Katowice to participate in spontaneous gatherings. This provision is contrary to the essence of freedom of assembly and freedom of expression guaranteed by the Constitution in Article. 31. The Sejm Analysis Office also drew attention to this problem. This provision is similar to that in force at the 2016 NATO Summit and at the World Youth Days. It can therefore be expected that such restrictions will become the norm for all such events in Poland. It is clear that beyond the security issue This is also a way of stopping citizens from objecting or trying to express their views on the issues at issue in the public debate. Many environmental non-governmental organisations, which were troublesome for the environmental minister who presented the bill yesterday, have reservations about the coal promotion policy of Minister Szyszko, which has probably been taken into account in the construction of this specialty. However, Deputy Minister of Environment Paweł Sałek assured yesterday at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Environment and Foreign Affairs that if anyone wanted to carry out a peaceful manifestation, it would not be a problem. But these regulations tell us that he wasn't telling the truth, because it's hard for us to believe it, because at the same time, a special act introduces extraordinary powers for the services, among others. on the collection of personal data that will be in force until 31 January. Therefore, the Modern Parliamentary Club cannot support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u162	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present the position of the club on the draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland, contained in print No 2120. High Seym! First of all, analyzing Poland's activity in the organisation of subsequent COP24 conferences - in 2008 it took place in Poznań, in 2013 in Warsaw - it would seem that Poland is the leader in climate protection activities. Meanwhile, we can give anti-examples of such activities, such as failing to deal with the issue of limiting smog or blocking the development of RES in Polish legislation. It seems that it is closer to the truth that this is an expression of the ambition of the previous head of the Environment Ministry, Prof. Szyszko, who, after completing his mission in 2017, took care of climate issues. Secondly, is it necessary to ensure the smooth interaction of state services responsible for public order and security? All the more so as the detailed provisions and scopes of the action will be refined by means of agreements. Thirdly, how did the cost of COP24 be determined for the amount of PLN 128 million? Who made an estimate of such costs and based on what assumptions? We remember that after the conference in Poznań, which cost about 70 million PLN, the organisers were accused of wastefulness. Does the cost balance include the cost of additional services: police officers, firefighters, medical services? Given that the funds will come from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and that the main burden of settlement of the grant will be borne by the Ministry of Environment, there is a strange situation in which an organisational unit of the Minister will account for its superior for the regularity of spending the funds transferred. By the way, if COP is such a priority for environmental protection in Poland, why is it planned to deploy only three NFOŚ employees to help with organizational work? With a few hundred people employed, three people seem to be a very modest representation. Fourthly, if COP is to be a global event to which the Polish government attaches such great importance, why is it proposed to represent the government so modestly in the work of the organizational committee? Why don't they participate in his work? representatives of the energy department, for example, to boast of the achievements already mentioned in the field of renewable energy sources? Why doesn't the Ministry of Science and Higher Education represent or participate in this to present the achievements of Polish science? Several other resorts could be mentioned: health, education and education, investment and construction, maritime economy. In conclusion, if we can afford to organise another global conference in such a short time, do not limit yourselves to the PR layer. We expect concrete government action to reduce smog, develop renewable energy sources and support civic energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Eight years.]] I didn't bother you with your speech. [[That was after the speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u163	Thank you very much. We've finished our club appearances. Two Members have asked questions. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. I therefore close the list of questions submitted. I'm setting a question time for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about one of these extremely interesting issues as a resident of the Silesian Voivodeship. We spend over 128 million without a tender and without a competition. We do it in agreement, we organize it in agreement with the Katowice government, which applied for COP to take place in Katowice. Why, then, of these 128 million earmarked for this purpose Katowice will have only 580,000. zł, and it's only in the taxi section? Why will Katowice and the local government decide on the amount of tens of millions for renting the space at the disposal of the city of Katowice and the local government? And is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That this attorney is and remains Minister Szyszko? And that's maybe a golden parachute for him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u165	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why is COP24 planning to deliver PLN 30 million to support the adaptation of developing countries to adverse climate change? After all, this is a reduction in the possibility of using the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to carry out ecological tasks in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u167	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Oh, no, I'm not closing yet because you're the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment. You'd like to speak, wouldn't you? You're welcome, Mr. Paweł Sałek. You're welcome, Minister. Please bear in mind that we are in a very bad time situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer briefly only to the issues that have been presented here. I wanted to say that this bill was modelled on the special laws concerning the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days. Please note that we are proposing this special act because we expect 40,000 in Katowice. People and these people will be there for about two weeks. This amount, which is being proposed at the moment, is, in our opinion, quite good and decent, because the Paris summit cost 180 million euros, in Marrakesh - 90 million euros, in Bonn - 150 million euros. We are offering 130 million and I hope that this summit will close in this amount. Due to security issues, organisational issues, logistics issues we believe that this access is necessary and necessary. As for the assembly, it's only temporary here. for two weeks, about these spontaneous gatherings, if anyone wants to report to a convention, he will have the right to do so and he will be able to do so. As far as tenders are concerned, only when it comes to safety are tenders off. And so all will be public, there will be announcements on the Internet, there will be regulations, competitions, etc. An agreement will be written between the Ministry of Environment and Katowice, which will directly regulate the detailed rules of cooperation. As regards aid to poorer countries, Poland is also obliged to grant aid under regional aid. And such aid in terms of climate change can be allocated to poorer countries, especially since it is still to be fulfilled by the Prime Minister of the Paris Conference, during which Poland declared $8 million in climate aid for poorer countries. I think I answered all the questions in a nutshell, as you asked the marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. And now the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to thank everyone who worked on this specialty. This is an event for Poland, for the Silesian region, which I represent. I would like us to talk substantively, not politically, because this assembly is aimed at showing Poland in the right place. We're not on our knees, we're just partners. And I very much appeal to the total opposition to allow it to bring forth what is good so that it can work together to develop an innovative economy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[If someone's appealing to someone, they're not offended.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u171	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Unfortunately, we can't proceed with point 11 because there's no senator yet... [[There it is.]] You're a senator to the next point. Can we consider the next point? There's no way out. It's a pity that... Let's do this: 5 minutes break. If Senator Borowski doesn't make it, we'll reorder the points. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 12 h 13 min 21]] We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Driving Vehicles (Print No. 2059). I'm asking Senator Mark Borowski to state the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law, which I have the honour to present, is a senate project, has been adopted by the Senate and is related to the Act which was adopted in May 2015 and, in fact, with the amendment of May 2015, known to all drivers. This is the rule that was adopted at the time, which says that if the permitted speed is exceeded by more than 50 km/h in the built-up area, the driver is not only fined, but his driving licence is also retained for 3 months. As I said, this amendment was adopted 2 years ago, in May 2015. In September 2015, the Ombudsman challenged this provision to the Constitutional Tribunal. He challenged two issues, namely, firstly, the so-called. double punishment - i.e. both a ticket and a three-month driving licence - and a lack of so-called. an adequate procedural guarantee for the retention of a driving licence. If a driver's mandate is imposed, he is entitled to appeal to a regional court - you know, he may not accept this mandate and the case will go to a regional court, which may apply a higher necessity clause - whereas in the case of an administrative penalty, which is the retention of a driving licence, the case goes on the administrative track and the administrative court examines only the legality of the licence. However, the Ombudsman said that there may be, of course, rare cases, but there may be cases where the driver exceeds speed because he protects the higher good. For example, it is a very typical situation when it carries a pregnant woman to the hospital and the pace and timing of arrival at the hospital are extremely important. The Constitutional Tribunal considered this in October 2016. The ombudsman's first objection, namely that concerning double punishment, the Court did not share, considered that such a course of action was justified, but agreed with the second condition and stated, inter alia, that the act lacked a clear indication that if speed was exceeded in an area built by more than 50 km/h, the driver did not commit an act at risk of administrative sanctions, if this was due to a desire to prevent the danger of another good or to limit it, if this danger could not be avoided otherwise. According to the Constitutional Tribunal, when neither a policeman nor the administrative authorities have the option of withdrawing from the retention of a driving licence in the event of a situation of higher necessity and, in turn, the administrative courts they are not in a position to repeal administrative decisions for this reason, there is a breach of constitutional standards. The Senate has been investigating the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal for years and where it considers that the Senate's intervention would be appropriate, faster than the government's intervention, it will take such initiatives. And that's the kind of initiative. The draft law, which I submit on behalf of the Senate of the High House, therefore constitutes the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It contains an amendment to the Road Code and, by analogy, the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. Both laws propose to include similar provisions authorising the police and administrative authorities and possibly judicial and administrative authorities to withdraw from the retention of a driving licence in the event of force majeure. She's in this bill as defined in the Penal Code. The project has been widely consulted and has no budgetary implications. I therefore submit this proposal to the High House on behalf of the Senate and I ask you kindly, Mr Marshal, to refer it to the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u174	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal asked us for some time pressure, so I wouldn't want to prolong it. We're dealing with an obvious, expected, logical act. Once again, there is a belief that sometimes the letter of the law is not simply a letter of life. Therefore, it is good to take such an initiative, which aims to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief comment on this law, because sometimes you can get the impression that life suggests solutions that need to be simply from this side, letters of law, modified, corrected. It is difficult to imagine a situation where we in this place, in the High House, will not talk about one of the most fundamental things: that human life is the primary and most fundamental, obvious value that we, as parliamentarians, should first take care of as politicians. It is difficult to imagine, therefore, that a driver who takes up challenges to save another person's life, in my view, would still be punished for doing a minor offense, which is speeding. The Senate initiative is therefore needed as much as possible, obvious, expected. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to recommend to the High House that this draft law be further examined in the relevant parliamentary committees. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would also like to recommend, propose that these work be undertaken in committee, be carried out quickly, so that this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal can be accepted. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Indeed, the draft amendment of the law presented by the Senate is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is difficult to question, it is a thing that practically, life absolutely is needed, such situations can happen, and therefore the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports this project and proposes that it be transferred to the committee responsible. On the other hand, there are doubts about the provision, which is a code book, but in this particular situation the question arises as to whether it will work well. The proposed provision states, most generally, that driving licences are not taken if the driver of the vehicle has committed an infringement referred to in the provision, acting in order to remove the immediate danger of life or human health, if this danger could not be avoided otherwise, and that the good in the form of road safety represented a value lower than the good of the rescued. Of course, the record is as valid as possible, but how can it be realized? Who's gonna decide when the driver goes over that 50-mile-an-hour thing and the cop stops him? Will this policeman judge whether the good that is at risk is of greater value than creating a dangerous situation on the road? Because if a policeman judges wrong, then of course he takes away his driver's license and the driver of the vehicle can claim his rights, but for some time he will not have that driver's license. There's a doubt. I would like to ask the applicant, the senator, to pay some attention to this matter and possibly point out how he imagines the practical implementation of this provision so that there are no negligence or even certain infringements of the law, infringements of this provision, which is presented here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka will now speak... No, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15, is here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Days like today in this Parliament are enjoying. You could say it's a good change. It's obvious, it's over 50 km/h, but when there's a higher need - saving lives, health, getting a doctor, getting people out of the danger zone, getting their pregnant wife to the hospital. Then the driver's license shouldn't be stopped. We will therefore strongly support such solutions as Kukiz. I am also pleased with Mr Lassota's questions, and they are very well founded, because there is such a question as to whether it will not be abused in some way, but I believe that such cases will be very few, and even if this project makes sense, it is absolutely legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u179	Thank you very much. Now Mr Paweł Szramka, also a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course, it is a question of no doubt, as a colleague has already mentioned. On this occasion, I would like to point out that it is worth considering the second judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. If the driver does not exceed the speed by 50 km/h or agrees with the police that he has done so, let us remember that these meters are not perfect, they are burdened with a very high risk of error. If the driver is convinced that he did not pass speed, the case is brought to court, then why is the driver's driver's driver's driver's license removed at this point? If this driver needs a driver's license, let's say he's a driver, we're ruining his life if he doesn't have a driver's license for three months. Let's give it to the court. If there's a ruling that he's actually speeding, then he's not gonna get away with it, anyway, he's gonna be taken away for three months. Right now, it's like someone's been fighting for their truth in court for a year. The court finds that it didn't actually exceed that speed by 50 km/h, but we won't be back for three months, the driver's license was taken. Sadly, this often has a negative impact on a person's entire life. So that I would like to ask you to take up this subject as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u182	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The Polish People's Party Club is in a position to continue the legislative process to send the Senate project to the committee so that we can conclude this process in the near future as, in our opinion, responding to reasonable solutions in situations that may arise and which often involve situations that are very important for human life. It is a fact that, when we examine the justification and the records, we may, as my previous speakers pointed out, have some doubts as to whether we can ask ourselves questions about the subsequent implementation in practice of particular issues. This may be the case in case-by-case analysis, which usually brings a lot, but let us remain convinced that even despite individual attempts or situations that could involve using for other purposes or the intentions of those records that we want to create, these records are worth taking. Later we can only analyze individual situations and cases and evaluate them, but the whole point should be preserved and show that we are able to respond as far as possible as possible as the Sejm to the comments, suggestions and needs to make corrections in previously created legal records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u183	Mr Suchoñ, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in the case of the Senate draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on driving vehicles, print No. 2059. High Izbo! The draft law presented by the Senate contains provisions allowing the penalty to be waived in a situation justified by the need to drive more than 50 km/h in a built-up area because of the need to drive a vehicle at a speed of more than 50 km/h. It is also the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court which ruled that Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (4) and paragraph 1. 1c Act on driving vehicles in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1a (paragraph 1a) a the Law on Road Traffic in so far as it does not provide for situations justifying such conduct is incompatible with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The project presented by the Senate fills an obvious gap in the regulations. As a result of this gap of person e.g. Health saving, life saving and exceeding the permissible speed in a built-up area of more than 50 km/h were seriously affected by the loss of a driving licence. This was done on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (4) of the Act on Drivers, which defines one of the main administrative decisions to retain a driving licence. According to this provision, the oldosta is obliged to issue a decision to retain a driving licence where the driver of the vehicle has exceeded the permissible speed by more than 50 km and, of course, when this happened in the built-up area. As provided for in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1c, the governor shall issue the decision which I have just said, for a period of 3 months, giving her immediate enforcement and obliging the driver to return his driving licence, unless, of course, this document has been detained by a police officer before. However, as stated in the statement of reasons of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, there is no clear indication in the Act that a person driving a vehicle in a built-up area at a speed exceeding the speed permitted by more than 50 km/h does not commit an act at risk of administrative sanctions in the form of stopping a driving licence if he drives a vehicle at such speed in order to reduce the direct danger of threatening the good protected by law or to prevent it from being avoided and, of course, the good devoted to road safety does not represent a value greater than the good saved. In administrative law, as is the case in criminal law and in criminal offences law, a case of conflict of goods, values and interests should be taken into account which justifies the entity's failure to comply with orders and prohibitions laid down by law, the infringement of which is sanctioned by law. It is precisely the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 October 2016 in the form of an order. Act K 24/15, a small part of which I have allowed myself to quote, is reflected in the draft submitted by the Senate. The provisions will allow a higher need to be taken into account when the driver exceeds the permissible speed in a built-up area of more than 50 km/h. New editorial units marked as paragraph. 1aa also provides for the reservation that this provision will apply if the danger could not be avoided otherwise and that the good in the form of road safety represented a value lower than the good saved. High Izbo! Given my position, it should be considered that the draft law presented by the Senate will have a positive impact on the situation of citizens. Therefore and on behalf of the Poselski Club I request that the project be sent to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u185	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate proposal for changes to the Road Traffic Law refers to a state of higher necessity. When the perpetrator exceeds the limits of a higher need, the court can treat him gently by imposing an extremely relaxed penalty, or even by rejecting it entirely. I have such doubts: Doesn't this open up a certain loophole, a certain legal gap? After all, a policeman will not always face a clear situation, because anyone will be able to rely on a higher necessity, which will rule out the possibility of stopping a driver's license. He won't always be able to check, for example, if the driver's father is having a heart attack, and he's on his way to rescue. Reverse: In court, will someone who refuses to accept a mandate be able to invoke a higher [[♪ The bell ♪]] the necessity not covered by police officers? Did...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u187	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Senator the applicant, or perhaps the Minister, on a specific case concerning a higher degree of necessity, commonly referred to. These are the demands of firefighters of the voluntary fire department. When they get the alarm signal, they have to get to the assembly site very quickly. Of course, if there is an alarm, it means that somewhere life or human health is at risk. Would that also qualify for such consideration in such a situation? And maybe it would be worth it for this particular case, because it's not one case, but it's a pretty common matter, actually such a writing directly, maybe here, maybe elsewhere, establish. I'd like to hear the senator's opinion, maybe the minister's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a general rule, as regards the draft amendment to the Act, in the assessment of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the provisions prepared correspond to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and to the view that persons who commit an infringement of a higher degree of necessity should not be punished. In the view of the Ministry, it should be noted that the state of higher necessity, by definition, is found to be the case and now. The road traffic control authority should decide on the existence of indications of a higher need during the inspection. Only that authority should decide whether or not there has been a misdemeanor. In the event of a discrepancy in the situation of a higher need, the court should, of course, decide. In such a case, the person detained should refuse to accept a criminal mandate for a criminal offence on grounds of a higher degree of necessity and the case will be referred to the court. As an authority, the Starosta should not conduct administrative and evidence proceedings to confirm whether or not there has been a higher need in a given situation. This would be inappropriate, since the elder would have to act as a quasi-revocal body in proceedings for misdeeds in the replacement of universal courts or even in assessing their judgments. The Starosta is not and should not be entitled to this. It is our position that has not been taken into account during the Senate work. It's a hot request to be taken into account during the Parliamentary work. On the other hand, as to the question of the Member - the fire department is guided by completely different regulations, while driving, it is a privileged vehicle and in my opinion... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I didn't understand. I'm sorry. [[If the fireman's heading to the assembly site as a result of the alarm.]] Oh, as a result of the alarm. Of course, perhaps it's worth adding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u193	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski will now speak as a representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you all for your general support for this project, as well as your comments and questions. In fact, I can say that these topics that you have raised here were, of course, also discussed in the Senate, because we have similar experiences and therefore we had to settle some things. Well, there you go. Of course, the question of who is right and how to say, and whether it can be said that there is a higher need, has been discussed. What can we say about this? Well, today's the situation... We need to compare the current state with that which will eventually be introduced after the adoption of this law. The present state is that on a good case a police officer, even seeing this and being convinced of the state of higher necessity, if he is a servant... [[He has to.]] ...he's gotta get his driver's license. He then issues a certificate, probably for 24 hours, so that this person can get somewhere, it's not like he's sequestering this car, but the driver's license is taken - it's taken, he's gone to the old man's office, and so on the good case, this old man can only make one decision. We've been trying to figure out what it looks like, because these are, of course, very rare cases, but they happen. We've been trying to figure out what it looks like in practice, and we've been trying to gather information from the old folks. We met with one case that shows what the current law leads to if you want to enforce it according to the letter. Well, in one of the counties -- I'm not going to say where -- there was a situation where the driver was driving an injured cyclist to the hospital, he was speeding, stopped by the police, saw him, and how, then he piloted him to the hospital, and when she got him on the plane, she took the driver. driver's license. [[She took it.]] She was just following the rules, that's all. So we have to rely here on the reasonableness of the policeman's actions. A policeman will gladly relieve the driver of this punishment if he actually finds a reason. Of course, there may be situations, as Mrs Margaret Navel said here, that there is a man sitting there, a truth who may be having a heart attack, or maybe just pretending, it is difficult to say. We need to rely on a policeman's reasonableness here, but there's one more thing I'd like to say. This driver is at the same time informing the policeman where he's going. He's going to the hospital. Which hospital, where, right? Therefore, it will be possible to check later whether he got there, whether the examined man actually had a heart attack, etc., etc. If not, then we are dealing simply with the deception of the public authority, misleading, etc., and with all the consequences that result. So I wouldn't be so afraid of it here. But there may also be a situation that a police officer will really stop this driver's license, he will not accept this case, and the driver will nevertheless insist that this case has taken place. For this reason, we leave this decision to the elderly, to whom we shorten the time limit for the decision on this matter. Today this deadline is 30 days, and in complicated situations - up to 60 days. Since this would probably be a complicated situation, leaving a deadline of 60 days means that the whole project would be pointless, thus reducing it to 14 days. With regard to the issue of measurement errors, as Mr Szramka said here, there may be a problem, in fact, with the fact that we in this law are carrying out the judgment of the tribunal. So I understand that this is a proposal de lege ferenda for the legislator. I don't know if it can be included in this bill, but it's kind of none of my business, and I'm leaving it to the High House's decision. As for the other servants, so did I. There was a broader discussion in the Senate, because there were other services, such as: Police in an unmarked car. Although it's kind of funny when some cops take their driver's license away from other cops, but they say it happened. Again, my answer is that this is a separate topic and it will probably be developed. We still have various services that need to act quickly, and the various officers of these services can go at an accelerated pace, I don't know, to headquarters or to a collection site. So this may be more complicated than we think, but I would stress that this was not the subject of this law, and the Senate is sticking to the judgment of the tribunal here. Finally, as regards this issue, which Mr Chodkiewicz raised here, it was indeed raised and it was requested by the Ministry of Infrastructure that the case should be settled simply by the court - of course, we are talking about the dispute, the situation between the policeman and the driver - so that the governor, so to speak, would not appear here as a determining authority, but that the case would be brought to the court immediately. I want to say, first of all, that we already have situations where the old man has to decide, namely, when the fact of speeding by more than 50 km/h is not detected by a police officer, but is detected by radar. There's no cop here. Something like that goes to the old man. And, well, if there was a case of higher necessity or a case of higher necessity, then this driver will come with certain documents, with some justification and the governor will have to settle. Of course, it can be said that he will not decide, will pass it on to the court, the driver will turn after his negative decision to the court. Yeah, except it's very long-lasting. Please note that after the decision of the old man there is no court immediately, there is a municipal appeal college. That's where I'm going first. Of course, the SKO will confirm that decision. Then he goes to court. After all, the court will not immediately consider it, there is a term. The effect will be that, although this was a state of higher necessity, the driver will be waiting for this decision perhaps as much as if it had just been stopped. Therefore, let us not be afraid that an elder in such cases will be able to make a positive decision, in short, not to make a decision on detention. How many cases are there? There are no extras in this case, but these are a few cases, these are very few cases. Therefore, it is difficult to say whether this will be a special burden. But if the governor doesn't want to make a positive decision for the driver after all, the case will simply go to court. So let's give it a chance, in situations where, in fact, it's obvious simply that a citizen, a driver who behaves as a citizen, doesn't have any consequences. Nevertheless, as I understand it, these matters will come back at the committee meeting anyway, so they can be considered in more detail. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u195	Thank you very much. Member in corrigendum? Mr Lassota, as corrected, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u196	Thank you, Marshal. I don't think the Minister fully understood my question. Indeed, the fire department in action operates under separate regulations and uses them, while in the case of the arrival of voluntary firefighters, volunteers, those firefighters from CSR to the assembly site, when there is an alarm, they have no powers and no preferences in this regard, and sometimes it may also be a matter of life or health. It seems, Minister, that this is a discussion, which is a little bit next to this project, but I would like to point out to the Minister that it would be worth looking into, because this is a very serious problem for many firefighters who sometimes, for example. in the case of traffic jams, they can't get to the assembly site and the whole operation may be delayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u197	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Senate's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Driving Vehicles, contained in print No. 2059, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law on amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on income tax on natural persons and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds (Print No 2062). I ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present a draft law on amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds, print No 2062. High Izbo! Throughout history, Poland and Poles have experienced difficult and dramatic moments. The history, also the newest, 20th century, left many of our countrymen injured, whether by invaders due to direct warfare, whether by the genocide of the invaders, the deliberate destruction and exploitation of the Polish people, their human and material resources, or finally by a nearly half-century, devastating exploitation of our country by a foreign and force-forced ideological system. After the turn of 1989, Sovereign Poland feels at least partial compensation and compensation for the damage caused to its citizens, after all, not because of it. By the way, our country is different from other European countries, as if civilized, with a high culture that defends itself as much as they can before acknowledging the obvious historical facts, even trying to shed their responsibility for the war, occupation, crime and exploitation. As I said, there are many groups of victims in our country: combatants, including veterans fighting for independence of the Republic of Poland, victims of repression of war and post-war period, so-called. miner soldiers, i.e. military substitute soldiers forced to employ in coal mines, quarrying, uranium ore plants and construction battalions, anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons, persons imprisoned in labour camps or deported to forced labour. The High House has recently increased its powers as far as possible to anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons. Every few years, the legislator regularly deals with the rights of combatants and victims of war and post-war repression. However, there is a group of victims, it is about people deported to forced labour, whose minor rights have hardly changed for years, i.e. since the adoption of the law concerning them, i.e. since 1996. Perhaps because they were weakly claiming their rights, perhaps because their voice was just less audible. The memory of those deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is our moral duty. They are generally very old, over the age of 80, ill, also due to forced labor, which they were forced to witness to the German and Soviet occupations. Today, the most important thing for them is to be able to benefit from health benefits outside the order. That is why the Senate of the Republic of Poland submits this bill to the High House, supported by numerous proposals of people from this environment, among others. associated with the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich, whose representatives we should see in a moment at the gallery. High Izbo! The Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was adopted in 1996. This provision of up to PLN 210 per month is practically the only entitlement which is granted to persons deported to forced labour. The draft law does not change the circle of entitled persons or interfere with their existing entitlement to benefits, but introduces the following powers for them: the right to benefit from health care and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, the right to obtain outpatient specialized benefits without referring to health insurance from a doctor - these changes are contained in Article. 3 of the draft amending the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded health care, the right of priority to environmental social protection, including the right to a place in a social assistance home, the right to assistance from local authorities in the areas of communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services - these changes are contained in Article. 1 of the draft amending the Law of 31 May 1996 on the provision of cash to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In order for the entitled person to benefit effectively and seamlessly from the rights granted in the draft, we equip him with the legitimacy of the person deported to forced labour or imprisoned in the labour camp by the Third Reich or the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. Its model will be defined by regulation by the Minister responsible for social security. We leave the form of legitimacy to the decision of the Minister, for example. It's supposed to be a paper book or a plastic card or a photo of an authorized person, etc. The card will be issued at the request of the authorised head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Since we assume that the main majority of those applying for a card will be those already entitled to an adequate cash benefit, the draft contains a transitional provision, Article. 4. It makes it possible to issue a card on the basis of decisions already issued by the same Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed to grant a cash benefit. This will simplify and speed up the verification and issuance procedure. We hope, of course, that the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich will also be involved in the submission of applications, helping those entitled, including their members. The draft also includes legislation of a typical legislative nature, i.e. necessary amendments to the title of the 1996 mother's law and the article describing the subject matter of the law due to the extension of the scope of the matters it has standardized, contained in the article. 1 of the project, the related amendment of the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax, amending the relevant reference contained in Article. 2 projects, determining the date of entry into force of the law, standard 14-day vacathio legis - rather short, because the passage of time for potential beneficiaries of this law is of great importance - as art. 5 projects. High Izbo! The draft law at the stage of the Senate work was supplemented by an impact assessment of the regulation. It follows that the proposed amendments may cover around 71 000. eligible persons. The total cost of implementing the law was estimated at about 362 thousand. zł. They result mainly from the production, about 50,000. PLN, and delivery of ID cards to applicants, about 312 thousand. zł. It should be noted that these are maximum amounts. The latter may be significantly reduced if, for example, The organizational structures of the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich will be involved in the distribution process. The impact assessment also describes in detail the over-monthly public consultation process for the project. The Senate received several opinions from institutions and organizations. Some of the comments contained concerned the necessity of assistance to persons deported by local authorities. They have been included in the final draft presented to the High House. In the case of self-governments, provision was made for the possibility of helping people deported to forced labour or imprisoned in labour camps, as in the Act of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. The second of the doubts raised in some opinions regarding the possibility of access to a doctor outside the order, which is supposedly linked to a significant increase in the number of entitled persons, has been disbanded by the Minister of Health. In his position, he did not raise any objections to the proposal contained in the draft law to grant persons deported to forced labour and special rights to access healthcare services in labour camps. The majority of institutions and organisations in their opinions addressed to the Senate, in addition to specific comments, responded positively to the draft law. It should be pointed out that a single opinion was formulated on its final version, submitted to the High House, the Union of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland, and only one minor legislative comment. I would like to add that the Senate's print project No. 2062 fully consumes the demands made by the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich in the form of a petition submitted in May 2017 to the hands of the Marshal of the Sejm and considered by the Parliament's Committee on Petitions in October of that year. High Izbo! This project was adopted unanimously by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, without votes against and holding back, over political divisions. Therefore, I have the moral right to ask the High Sejm for a substantive and efficient work on the project presented and, as a result, to adopt an appropriate law in accordance with the sense of social justice and expectations of the victims of the occupations, which will be the answer to the policy of protecting the weakest and helping the weakest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u199	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Andzel will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds, print No 2062. The aim of the proposed law is to give people deported to forced labour additional powers related to health care and social care. Under the proposed law, persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Soviet Union during and after World War II are to be given the right to priority in the field of environmental social care, including in the social care home, to benefit from health care and pharmaceutical services outside the order. These powers do not involve additional expenditure, so the use of them is neutral from the point of view of the state budget. According to this project, the person entitled to be deported to work or to be imprisoned in the labour camp is to be issued a card which will be a proof of possession of the above. allowances. The proposed law also provides for the possibility for local authorities to provide additional communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services. The proposed changes are in line with the demands of representatives of people deported to forced labour, members of the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich. The powers conferred by the law are similar to those currently available to combatants, victims of repression and anti-communist opposition activists. Those targeted at forced labour and those imprisoned in labour camps in connection with the harm they suffered during World War II and after World War II also deserve their special care by the state. Mostly they are. These are the elderly and the sick today, who need more care and medical and social care. The project is fully compatible with the sense of social justice, which is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of directing this project to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] You're an MP. [[I'm here, Marshal. I didn't think the performance would end so soon.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, we need to help, and we have no doubt that any social group that has been particularly affected by war and totalitarian regimes should receive support from you. However, the analysis of this project raises some doubts. It is very exposed that the implementation of this law will not cost anything. Can help be real if it doesn't cost anything? Is it really possible to help effectively without spending any money on it? Of course, these three hundred and tens of thousands involved in issuing legitimacy represent a more administrative, bureaucratic cost than the cost of some real help. It also raises the question of what it means: the right to healthcare services outside the order. How will this be implemented? We know how difficult it is for veterans. Why? There'll be a person with a I.D. standing under the doctor's office, and he'll say, "Do I have priority?" Is this really the case? We also have doubts as to whether skipping primary healthcare is the right solution, so going straight to the specialist's doctor. For how much will such a person who needs medical attention be able to discern, or should she go to a laryngologist or an oncologist? How can such a statutory omission be made by a doctor, especially a family doctor, who has the greatest knowledge of the sick and should assess best what specialist he needs? After all, we are aware that these specialists are lacking and, therefore, it is sometimes difficult to access them, especially to specialists in certain areas. So how does this solution create some additional confusion in the health care system rather than so much real help? Another issue concerns priority in obtaining a place in social assistance homes. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy points out that today we have a lot of vacancies in social assistance homes, i.e. people targeted, placed, staying in social assistance homes are less than those places. Of course, these places are not evenly distributed, and therefore there are probably areas, especially areas of large, large cities where these places are missing. On the other hand, there are rural areas where social assistance homes run by powiats are available, and not necessarily in a house where there are vacant places, this person would like to go. So how much real aid will this be, and how will it be implemented? We must also be aware that such priority means that someone else will be deprived of this possibility. How will these dilemmas be resolved? What's the procedure here? What does it mean to be first, what does it mean to be out of order? How will this be implemented? Another issue is the power of the local government to provide additional assistance in these areas indicated in the Act. The question therefore arises as to whether the local government could not provide assistance so far, whether it was actually prohibited, or whether it was another declaration. The question is whether this is a non-covering declaration. To sum up, since the implementation of this law costs nothing and it is not known how these powers are to be exercised, the basic question arises: How much aid introduced by this law is real aid? Is this just some kind of declaration of good will not to say, a pretend aid? This is a fundamental question about this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u203	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz club15, Mr Józef Brynkus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the draft law in print No. 2062. The Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons covers the care of several communities with diverse numbers and different character of merits for sovereign and independent Poland, as well as the extent of the harm suffered by various invaders. For many years, each of these environments had different material, health, or honorary powers. The amended law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Soviet Union, as well as some other laws, constitutes a step in the right direction. It corrects the weaknesses of the earlier law, probably due to concern - there is nothing to lie about - that too many beneficiaries at the time of its implementation, and this was 1996, could indeed have affected the proper functioning of the healthcare system. It was then granted to this environment, quite numerous, financial benefits, which were smaller than the veteran allowance, while the granting of other forms of support and equivalent for the damage suffered and health damage was waived. The main benefit of the current change is therefore to simplify access to health care and to eliminate difficulties or nuisances in the acquisition of pharmaceuticals and to facilitate the use of outpatient specialised assistance. This is important because it is an elderly group and undoubtedly with a wide range of health problems. It is also important to give priority to this group in terms of access to environmental social protection and, where necessary, obtaining places in social care homes. The mere establishment and issuance of appropriate legitimacy to these persons is only a formal and technical action necessary for the smooth implementation of the provisions of the amended law. However, it will also have a symbolic sense of dignity - it is about confirming status and authority. It is good that those entitled to benefits will also be able to benefit from the support of local authorities in the use of local communications or in the use of social assistance rights, but it is this point that asks us to consider why the rules are avoided in this respect and the discretion of local authorities is left. The same is true, for example. in the case of anti-communist opposition activists and in relation to politically oppressed persons. The collection of letters available on the website of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons - responses of individual local governments of large Polish cities and agglomerations to a query by the head of office on this issue - shows through a wide variety of forms of tariff concessions in communication, and sometimes a total lack of them, or by the scope of social assistance benefits granted, how the social sensitivity and political awareness of local authorities vary. Therefore, when discussing the changes currently being made, it is worth asking whether it would not be better to introduce a general statutory catalogue of allowances and to differentiate - if any, by laying down statutory criteria for access to them by individual eligible groups. Then, as legislators, we will take responsibility for establishing a hierarchy of powers, but we will avoid the discretionary and not always worthy treatment of the less sensitive representatives of local governments. In conclusion, one more reflection. It has been estimated that the new act will cover around 71 thousand. persons. It is therefore worth recalling that several million Poles were deported to forced labour during the years of the war and after it ended. As you can see, only a few percent of those affected will benefit from a small amount of relief in their daily lives. The vast majority have not even experienced such modest equivalent for their injuries and loss of health. Let us therefore think more about harmonising policies on respect for the growing number of groups of people who have made a sacrifice for independent, sovereign Poland or suffered for being Poles. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u205	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the club, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Member. There's no envoy. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krystian Jarubas.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u206	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, it is my pleasure to present at first reading a position on the Senate draft law on amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds, print No 2062. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft amendment of the Law on the provision of money to the oppressed is an initiative that will allow for further assistance to the group of about 71 thousand. people who have been repressed. It is specifically about the right of priority to environmental social protection, including obtaining a place in a social assistance home, the right to benefit from health care services and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, or finally the right to obtain outpatient specialist services without referring to health insurance from a doctor. Ladies and gentlemen! The Club of the Polish People's Party fully supports such solutions, provided that the provisions proposed by the applicant require clarification in several respects. It is specifically about the provisions imposing an obligation on the local government to provide assistance to the persons mentioned in the Act. The rule is unclear, broad and may face allegations of incorrectness. In addition, as we read in the Act, it applies to deportees. The proposal is therefore made on its own - still outside the scope of the regulation, people who are subject to forced labour without an element of deportation remain. In addition, the exact definition of which work should be taken into account is what should include assistance in the areas of communication facilities, residential, cultural and educational benefits provided by the local government. In our opinion, this will make it easier for the local authorities to do the job, and at the same time it will dispel all doubts of the persons concerned. We will be looking at whether appropriate corrections will be made in the course of the work on the Law. In addition, the project raises no major objections. But, of course, it's a drop in the sea of needs. Today, at the time of the hossy and the abundant harvest of the economy they are boasting about, it should be thought of a wider help for seniors, because it is the seniors who are, according to recent reports, the social group that is most experiencing poverty. In addition, they are treated very severely by the current rulers. The valorisation of social benefits proposed by the PiS in the last year was a mockery. Ladies and gentlemen, most seniors got a few gold raises. And the free drug project didn't come out either. The PiS government not only limited it to seniors over the age of 75, but in the last budget it cut about 50 million money for this project. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party to the serious challenge of helping seniors and the glory of economic growth has prepared a draft law exempting pensioners from tax. A project called "Emerity without tax" was submitted at the end of December. We hope that in the current situation, when the rulers show that they care about the welfare of seniors, they will also support the project of the Polish People's Party, which assumes that the net pension will become a gross pension. This will be a perfect test of your true intentions. I think it will also be appreciated by those who are being repressed, for whom you are preparing, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we have dealt with today. The Polish People's Party will support the referral of this bill to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u207	Thank you very much. Now Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u208	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of those bill projects that is hard not to have a positive relationship with. After all, those who suffered so much during the war deserve the special care of the state. I hope that we will accept this bill, that we will continue to work on it. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland should always lean over those who are weaker, who, as a result of war or political turmoil, suffered a sacrifice, especially those who were victims of communist and Nazi repression. Therefore, the club Modern will support further proceding, work on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u209	Thank you very much. The questions were raised by six ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, asks the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments to the Act are estimated at 100,000. people, so it is not a small number, but from day to day decreasing. All those deported to forced labour will certainly make the proposed changes easier to function in some way. On the other hand, the bill leads to deeper reflection. Shouldn't the government, instead of the privileges of access to health care or access to pharmaceutical services, end up reducing queues for doctors? The government should finally take care of free meds for seniors. This is what an ageing society expects of you. My final question: What information about the privileges and powers of the group will be communicated to its representatives, and how will this be done? What measures will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] intended for an information campaign? How will this information reach this group of people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! A few months ago, we passed the Social Assistance Act, which allowed members of the Veterans' Corps to be exempt from the payment of social assistance fees, eliminating state negligence in relation to those who deserved Poland's help by many of them very much expected. We are repairing similar negligence today thanks to the Senate's draft amendment of the law, thanks to which people deported to forced labour, i.e. the victims of German and Soviet occupation during and after World War II will receive additional powers related to health care and social care. These are the powers to obtain access beyond the order of health and social care services. These people today are elderly, ill people, requiring increased care and care for doctors, nurses, and the social community. They do not expect any special privileges from you, but the possibility of using health care and social services in the order of order. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's the project that's been working on these people. So you can only ask: Why is it only today? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My grandfather was one of those robots exported to Prussia during World War II. Such expedition for robots was hunger, dirt, lice, and work beyond strength. Grandfather did not live to see the creation of this law, as did hundreds of thousands of people treated similarly by our invaders. I would like to ask: Why is it that none of the invaders, why none of these powers that have used such repression, feel responsible, even to a minimum, to make amends to those who have been subjected to these repressions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u215	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Sławomir Piechot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u216	High Seym! I would like to ask the Minister about the state of work on extending the benefits to miners' soldiers, people for political reasons from 1949 to 1959 forced employment in coal mines, uranium ore plants and quarrying. A project on the powers of this group, in a particularly violently repressed way, was launched in March 2016. The first reading was held in this Chamber in April 2016. Over a year later, the government's negative stance on this project appeared. During the debate on this law, the Minister declared that work was underway to extend the powers of these miners. And here we know, as in everything, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How this group is getting smaller fast. So what is the state of work today, and when can these people expect these additional powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u217	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u218	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Why isn't the Polish state preparing a system solution for appreciating and honoring those involved in gaining Poland's sovereignty and introducing a system of benefits for them? I have many friends who fought against the communist system for the sovereignty and freedom of Poland. Today, unfortunately, they walk with their heads down, and those who were oppressors and executioners today are the mountain and laugh at them. Today they don't have a job, they don't have a pension because they've been fired for this fight, thrown out on the street, forgotten. I think we also need to lean on this, remind ourselves of those who fought for free Poland, somehow compensate them and give them some benefits, because they do not have pensions so that they can somehow live a decent life for fighting for free Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u219	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers has not yet adopted an official position on the proposal for a law on amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and to be imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. I am pleased to present to the High House the draft position of the Council of Ministers, which has been prepared in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. This position consists of three parts. The first contains a description of the solutions proposed in this bill, in the Senate bill. The second part refers to the current legal situation in this area. Let me focus on the third part, which includes an evaluation of this project. In general, this is a positive assessment. In the draft position of the Council of Ministers, we state that the Senate's draft law takes into account the environmental demands of people deported to forced labour and those imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics concerning the granting of new powers to this social group. We also draw attention to the fact that the government party is already working heavily on a draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war repression and post-war period. This is the bill that Mr Piechot mentioned in his speech. I might say right away that the stage at which this draft amendment law is being drawn up is the stage of inter-ministerial consultation and public consultation. So that at the moment we are waiting for the positions of other ministries, for the positions of social partners, and we hope that after this stage the Council of Ministers will send this project to the Sejm. This draft law contains regulations on the powers of the combatants and those who were subjected to post-war repression and repression, war and military invalids, soldiers of military substitute service forced to work in coal mines, quarrying, uranium ores and construction battalions, as well as civilian blind victims of war activities and anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons. I would also like to say, in answer to Mr Romecki's question, that last year there was a significant amendment to the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those who were repressed. This amendment entered into force on 30 August Ub. In addition to the income criterion, it has introduced a permanent provision which the persons who have obtained the status of anti-communist opposition activist and the person who has been repressed are already receiving every month. I would like to return to the project on which legislative work is currently underway, to this project which comprehensively normalizes the legal situation of people of different categories deserved for you, victims during the war, as well as in the post-war period. This draft law also includes regulations on the extension of the rights of persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I am referring here to the element of this project which gives people who are forced to be deported to work the opportunity to apply for one-off monetary assistance, which can be provided by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. With regard to the conclusion of the project, the position of the Council of Ministers, bearing in mind the above, does not see any contraindications to the further proceding of the senate draft law on amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in the labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask the representative of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would just like to make a brief reference to those issues which have not been raised by the Minister and which have sounded in this Chamber. First of all, I would like to thank you, in practical terms, all the clubs and political forces, very warmly for supporting this law. I think it's a good thing for the future that there's gonna be creative and pretty quick work on committees. I do not know how the Civic Platform Club will behave, because Mr Piechota's speech was ambivalent, he made a very large number of comments, but he did not comment on the whole. Why am I talking about this speed of work, why am I paying attention? Because it is the time factor for this group of people we are talking about that is very, very important. Moreover, some Members have raised this point in their speeches. There were at least a few million people deported to work, and there was only, as we estimate, 70,000. For example, for those who are left, it is worth simply hurrying up and it is worth deciding this law separately. Minister, I am aware that you will be dealing with a comprehensive bill, but as with any major project, it will take some time. The work on it is in the preliminary phase, because it is only being carried out in the Council of Ministers. I would ask for a favourable attitude to this law, especially since in this complex not all demands that are made by the environment of people deported to forced labour are taken into account. I think the more rights, the better. Please note that we, as the Senate, have not asked here, practically taking, for any material issues. These costs, which are here, are the technical costs of creating a card. Why didn't we say so? So that this can be processed fairly quickly and uncollided simply, through Parliament. And these issues, which are already related to monetary, periodic or one-off benefits, we leave to the government, because it is the government responsible for the purse, the government responsible for the state's income - that is clear - also for expenditure. The more you can use for deportees, the better, of course. There will certainly be full support here, I suppose, from the Senate and probably most of the Seym. Two more specific points. There were doubts about how this law would be implemented or perhaps some kind of moral right of self-government to help people deported to forced labour. Well, so far. These regulations we just copied from those that are already in force. I can say in this way that those who are interested can reach the website of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. There, for example. is very detailed, perhaps in 60 cases described, what individual local governments do with regard to people who are in a certain sense privileged, how they help these people. This is worth reaching out to, because perhaps some of you, even those who listen to us, do not know that such opportunities are in their territory, in their local government. Self-government gives such opportunities, they're not exactly conscious. This raises a second specific question. That is, how will we distribute this law if, of course, it is passed? We will certainly benefit from this environment, which groups these people. It's about the Association of Poles Repressed by the Third Reich. I know it's very vibrant, it has contacts with its members. It will be like a basic way to do this, firstly, to encourage proposals, and secondly, to then, possibly even in agreement with the Ministry, e.g. ready to distribute ID cards to its members. I know that there have also been consultations regarding the person's being deported at all. At that time, the association was actively involved. That's why I don't think he's gonna fail here either. And one last thing. Why do we propose this law only in this respect, this project is complex? It is precisely this speed that we want, that we want these regulations to be adopted as soon as possible, so that they become effective and just that these people... Very nice one of the Members here said that this is not just a matter of use, i.e. possibilities e.g. Getting to a doctor without a queue, but it's also a dignity issue. Such identity card also says that the person served Poland, that the person was oppressed during the war or after it by the occupiers. It also matters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. In the mode of correcting Mr Piechota. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have made it very clear, and the senator is calling into question, so I would like to make it clear: we are in favour of providing assistance, creating a support system for those who have suffered from war or the operation of totalitarian regimes, and we support this law. On the other hand, I asked how real the aid proposed in the Act is and how apparent it is. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy indicates that in 2015 more than 1000 seats were available in social services homes. So what is this priority about getting a place in a social security home? Mr. Senator, I can tell you, in his reply, he has confirmed me in my doubts, speaking of these new tasks that are being carried out by local governments, that this is copied from the previous ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] solutions. So what does this law introduce in terms of the powers of local governments to provide assistance to this social group? Couldn't local governments have given it so far? They were helping out. So what does this bill change? And this is the basic question: Is it really new, real help, or is it just a seeming act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u225	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate proposal for a law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds. The proposed bill aims to give people deported to forced labour additional powers in the field of health care as well as social care. The changes introduced mainly lead to access beyond the order of health care services as well as social care. The proposed powers in this Act are identical to those currently held by combatants, victims of repression of the war and post-war period, anti-communist opposition activists, as well as those repressed for political reasons. Sejm VIII and Senate IX have recently significantly increased the powers of these social groups, but it must be recalled here that both Chambers have left out, no less victimized by the occupiers, those deported to forced labour at the time and after the end of World War II. Today, a large proportion of those deported to forced labour and incarcerated in labour camps are the elderly, the sick, those in need of more medical care and social support. These people expect no financial support from other disadvantaged groups during World War II, but the possibility to benefit from medical and social services outside the order. The bill gives new powers to people deported to forced labour, among others. the right to benefit outside the order of health care services and pharmaceutical services in pharmacies, as well as the right to obtain outpatient specialist services without referring a doctor and, most importantly in my opinion, priority in access to social assistance homes. In order for these powers to be exercised, it is necessary to issue a valid card to the person. The issuing of the document is to be carried out by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Two types of legitimacy are provided: the identity card of the person deported to forced labour and the identity of the person imprisoned in the labour camp by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I believe that the introduction of changes in access to medical, nursing and social care of persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will increase the sense of social justice. The law meets the expectations of victims of World War II. The changes made are legitimate and deserve to be supported. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u227	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Senate draft law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and to the labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on personal income tax and the Act on public-funded healthcare provided by print No 2062, to the Social Policy and Family Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law on amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs (Print No. 2064). I ask Senator Alexander Swede to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u228	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the initiative of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to amend the laws: the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs. The proposed amendment is the implementation of the obligation to adapt the system of right to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Its main objective is to effectively protect the rights of creditors who have obtained the protection of their monetary claims by establishing on the debtor's assets a compulsory mortgage, a ban on the disposal or debit of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage, a ban on the disposal of cooperative property rights to the premises. The proposed amendment aims to align the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 25 October 2016, i.e. Act SK 71/13, declaring non-compliance with Article. 754 § 1 of the Law of 17 November 1964. Code of Civil Procedure in so far as it refers to the security by the burden on immovable property bound by a compulsory mortgage, with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to Art. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code granted to the creditor the protection of monetary claims in the form of a compulsory mortgage, the prohibition on the disposal or debiting of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage, the prohibition on the disposal of cooperative property rights in the premises falls after 2 months after the enforcement of the judgment taking into account the claim which was secured or the enforcement of the order to reject an appeal or any other appeal brought by the person liable to take account of the claim which was secured. Until 1 June 2017, the date of the month was valid. The expiry of that period was not dependent on the creditor's enforcement activities. Despite the creditor's enforcement actions, e.g. the submission of an application for execution, the time limit has not been interrupted. This led to the fact that enforcement of the sum due in the case of executions carried out exclusively from real estate was virtually impossible due to a lengthy and complex procedure. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 25 October 2016 that the above-mentioned ruling had been adopted. the provision is incompatible with the Constitution, as it de facto led to the apparent protection of the creditor's property rights by means of a security which is immediately ineffective. The proposed amendment consists, first, of making it conditional on the maintenance of the collateral for monetary claims to a certain extent on the submission by the holder of further enforcement proceedings, second, of the possibility for the creditor to submit a request for the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established under the collateral into a mortgage which secures the claim already established by the implementing title, thirdly, of applying the proposed collateral arrangements which were established before the entry into force of the law, but have not yet collapsed. So it is proposed, first of all, to give a new sound to the article. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code. The proposed wording of this provision includes a reservation that the security granted under Title II will not fall after a certain period of time if the holder requests enforcement. As from 1 June 2017, the text of the Article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code has been modified, in art. 1 in § 1 of the project was also preserved by changes which took place in the above mentioned. the date pursuant to Article. Point 2 (4) of the Law of 7 April 2017 amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. This applies to a time limit which has been extended to 2 months and to the time from which the time limit has to be calculated. It is also worth pointing out that the proposed provision covers both the method of security to which the judgment of 25 October 2016, i.e. a compulsory mortgage, and other means of guarantee referred to in Article, referred to directly. Article 747 (3) to (5) of the Civil Procedure Code. In addition, as regards the Law on perpetual books and mortgage, it is proposed to add a new article. 3 in the project. In the view of the Senate, it is appropriate to grant the creditor the opportunity to request the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established pursuant to Article. 110 point 1 of the Law on perpetual books and mortgage, into a mortgage that secures the claim already established by the implementing title. The creditor's entitlement would be limited only by a time limit of 2 months calculated from the date of the decision taking into account the claim which was subject to collateral, i.e. a time limit which would harmonize with that referred to in Article. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code. It is also important that, from now on, the creditor may choose, within a period of 2 months after the decision taking into account the claim which was secured or the decision rejecting the appeal brought by the debtor against such a decision, between further investigation of his rights by way of enforcement from the immovable property covered by the security provided for in Article. 747 Code of Civil Procedure and enforcement from other assets of the debtor and possibly collateral in the event of failure of such execution by recasting the mortgage under the proposed Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 Act on the Books of Perpetuals and the mortgage. As the change in the content of the mortgage shall be without prejudice to the rights of persons entitled to rights with equal or lower priority, as added by the provision of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 clarifies that if a change in the content of the mortgage would lead As detailed in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, the main substance of the proposed article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ There is no basis for different treatment of compulsory mortgages related to prosecutors' provisions or administrative decisions. Similarly, the security documents and the freezing arrangements referred to in the Law of 11 October 2013 on mutual assistance in the investigation of taxes, customs duties and other monetary claims, or the freezing arrangements laid down in the rules on enforcement proceedings in the administration, since their function is in principle identical to the compulsory mortgage function established by the court order granting the security. However, in the case of the documents and regulations referred to in Article. Points 4 and 5 should be clarified as to the beginning of that period of 2 months, which the law designates for the creditor to request the conversion of the mortgage. This task shall be carried out by the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The last regulatory area covered by the proposed amendment is the provisions of the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration. The proposed amendment is limited to adding in Article. 154 new paragraph, § 8, which will rule on the expiry of a security granted pursuant to Article. 164 § Paragraph 1 (2) to (5) - compulsory mortgage on immovable property, maritime mortgage, prohibition of disposal and debiting of immovable property not having a permanent book, prohibition of the disposal of cooperative rights - 2 months after the date of service of the decision or other judgment or from service of the order granting immediate enforceability, provided that the creditor is not the only one does not issue an implementing title to a secured monetary asset. In view of the urgent need to adapt the system of the right to a decision given by the Constitutional Tribunal in Article. 5 of the project is proposed standard vacathio legis, i.e. 14 days from the date of publication of the law. As I have already emphasised, the main objective of the proposed amendment is to protect creditors' property rights more effectively, to increase their chances of enforcing their debts, which, of course, involves limiting the possibility of debtors avoiding liability and paying their debts. The proposed project was widely consulted during proceedings in Senate committees and their opinions were submitted to the project, among others.: National Chamber Council, National Notarial Council, National Judicial Council, General Bar Council, Supreme Administrative Court, Supreme Court, Association of Polish Banks. They were mostly positive opinions. They also submitted their opinions to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance, which tabled three amendments each. They were taken over by me and Senator Robert Mątkow and adopted by the joint Senate committees. At the seym stage, their opinions were also expressed by: the Polish Chamber of Experts and the National Bank of Poland, which did not comment on the content of the project. The draft amendment was adopted unanimously, first by the joint Senate committees: the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, and then the Senate adopted the proposed amendment together with the amendments tabled at its 49th meeting on 10 November 2017, unanimously with 82 votes in favour. I therefore ask the High House to adopt the attached draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration, and the Act on Perpetual Books and mortgage, contained in Seym Print No 2064. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u229	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Senator! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses, contained in print No. 2064. The proposed regulation is intended to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 25 October 2016 in the form of an application. Act SK71/13, which concluded that the provision of Article. 754 § 1 is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as it leads to the apparent protection of the creditor's property right by means of a security which practically immediately becomes ineffective. Indeed, that provision provided that the creditor was granted the protection of monetary claims in the form of a compulsory mortgage, a ban on the disposal or debit of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage, a ban on the disposal of cooperative property property rights to the premises falls after 2 months after the enforcement of the judgment taking into account the claim which was secured, or the enforcement of the order to reject an appeal or any other measure of action brought by the person liable to take account of the claim which was secured. And the expiry of that period was not dependent on the creditor's enforcement activities, which actually led to this collateral being illusory. The proposed solution consists, first, of making it conditional on the maintenance of the collateral for monetary claims to a certain extent on the submission by the holder of enforcement actions, granting the creditor the possibility to submit a request for the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established under the collateral into a mortgage, which secures the claim already established by the implementing title, the application of the proposed collateral arrangements which were established before the entry into force of the law, but have not yet collapsed, and the application of the arrangements referred to in enforcement proceedings in the administration. This solution really creates real protection for the rights of creditors, strengthens their position, gives a real opportunity to enforce debts. Of course, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed solutions and requests that the proposal be directed to further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs. The aim of this proposal is to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court held in its judgment of 25 October 2016 that Article. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code is incompatible with the Constitution, as it de facto led to the apparent protection of the creditor's property right by securing a compulsory mortgage. This was due to the fact that the security fell after two months, whether or not the creditor had taken enforcement action. Thus, we are faced with a situation in which the creditor does not interrupt the time-limit. And that's how enforcement works. the amount due in the event of an execution carried out exclusively from real estate is not possible because of the long and complex procedure in practice. So the creditor, despite his final judgment, cannot be sure that he will be able to enforce the sum due. Therefore, the designer proposes an amendment which takes account of the fact that the security granted under Title II will not fall after a certain period of time if he requests enforcement. It should be pointed out that the proposed provision covers both collateral for the compulsory mortgage and other forms of collateral referred to in Article. Article 747 (3) to (5) of the Civil Procedure Code. In addition, the proposal proposes to add a new article in the perpetual books and mortgage law, which will give the creditor the opportunity to request a recast of the compulsory mortgage established under Article. 110 point 1 of the Law on perpetual accounts in mortgages, which secures the claim already established by the implementing title. As the designer points out, the need for these changes is due to the fact that today there is no standard which would allow the creditor to demand that the mortgage established under the guarantee be replaced by a mortgage already based on an implementing title. It follows from the justification of the project that comments have been submitted to these changes. These comments were submitted by the Supreme Court and the Polish Bank Association, which concerned the validity and need of these amendments. We therefore hope that the validity of these changes will be re-examined in the course of further work. The third area that governs this project is the law on enforcement in the administration. Although the amendments indicated in the judgment of the Court do not refer to procedural arrangements related to administrative execution, as the drafter points out, the symmetry of the rules contained in the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on Perpetual Books also applies to administrative implementing titles. Hence, the designer is also making changes in this respect. Given that the draft is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Civic Platform is in favour of directing the project to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u233	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. [[There's no envoy. I'll be...]] There isn't? All right, Mr Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on printing no. 2064, i.e. the Senate draft law on amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics. As has already been said three times here, this is a law which aims to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has ruled that certain provisions in the current state of law in Poland are non-constitutional, incompatible with the Constitution. Therefore, the need to make these changes does not give rise to the slightest doubt. On the other hand, I wanted to focus briefly on what these changes are specifically about, because we are still dealing with a bad situation that is harmful to the creditor, and in fact the creditor can be any one of us, because each of us can come across an unfair debtor who will not want to fulfil his obligations to us. This situation is that at a time when such a creditor obtains a positive judgment that the debtor should actually repay him... or fulfil any benefit - I wanted to say: he must repay the monetary amount, but the benefit must not always have a monetary dimension - he could have applied for collateral in advance so that the debtor's assets would be secured so that the debtor would not be able to dispose of the property so that it would simply be solvent. And it is now that this security falls after a judgment stating that the debtor has some benefit towards the creditor. On the other hand, due to the high level of complexity, and this is the procedure in Poland before this creditor, after obtaining the court's confirmation that the debtor is to fulfil the benefit against him, obtained forced execution e.g. in administrative execution or in civil execution, there have been cases where the debtor used - cleverly, unfairly - the fact that although the object was protected e.g. in the course of the proceedings, the real estate was secured by a compulsory mortgage, and when it, so to speak, came out from under the obligation of a compulsory mortgage, then the debtor could freely dispose of it, and then the creditor was often deprived of the ability to satisfy the debtor's obligation to provide it. Therefore, this change, which is intended to consist in the fact that, of course, this security will fall, but if the creditor takes action, action to enforce the debtor's obligation to provide the debtor, then this security will not fall. There is little more to it than just another provision amending just in the Act on Perpetual Books and a mortgage, which makes it easier for a mortgage to be converted into a normal mortgage, simply so that a creditor who has an unfair debtor, but one who is still solvent, has a wealth, but can force him to fulfil the provision so that he can recover that claim. So that, first of all, the very technical and concrete nature of this change, secondly, or perhaps it should be the first point, the fact that this change is the execution of the judgment, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Kukiz Club,15 will recommend to its Members to support this project, because the sooner it will be converted to parliament, the sooner the degree of protection of creditors will increase, and this protection is simply needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u235	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I am presenting my position on the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Act on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics. It is appropriate to express their thanks to the Senate and the representatives of the Senate that they have bowed down to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and submit a proposal related to the amendment of the Article. 754 of the Civil Procedure Code and the following articles, since the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 25 October 2016 stated that this provision is incompatible with the Constitution, since it de facto leads to the apparent protection of the creditor's property right by means of a security which immediately becomes ineffective. The proposed changes consist, first, of making the maintenance of the cash claim security subject to a certain degree to the application of enforcement measures by the holder. Secondly, when granting the creditor the opportunity to submit a request for the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established under the collateral into a mortgage which secures the claim already established by the implementing title. Thirdly, on the application of the proposed security solutions, which were established before the date of entry into force of the Act, but had not yet collapsed. Although the Constitutional Tribunal, for specific reasons, referred solely to a compulsory mortgage, it should also be welcomed to extend the regulation to the extent of the disposal or debiting of immovable property which does not have a permanent book established, as well as to the maritime mortgage and the disposal of the cooperative ownership right to the premises. Nor did the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concern procedural arrangements related to administrative execution. However, given the consistency of the legal system, it is also necessary to share the view that these solutions should be analogous. Therefore, the Club The Modern Parliamentary, given that these solutions are intended to improve the creditor's situation, to improve the effectiveness of both judicial and administrative executions, and thus to improve the certainty of commercial and civil turnover, proposes that the bill be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party. There isn't. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics. The draft submitted was prepared in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 25 October 2016, i.e. SK 71/13. The Court held in that judgment that Article. 754 § 1 c.p.c. to the extent that it relates to the collateral for the burden on immovable property subject to a compulsory mortgage is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 In accordance with the current wording of the provision of the Civil Procedure Code cited, unless otherwise provided for or otherwise decided by the court, the security granted under the provisions of this Title shall fall after two months after the decision taking into account the claim which was subject to protection has become final or the decision rejecting the appeal or other appeal brought by the person liable to safeguard has become final. I have quoted this provision in order to clarify the difference that arises as a result of the adoption of the proposal made by the Senate. In the view of the Constitutional Court, the introduction of a two-month period after which the establishment of a security in safeguard proceedings, e.g. the compulsory mortgage expires by virtue of the law, constitutes too far-reaching a restriction on the exercise of the creditor's property rights. It should be noted that the result of the collapse of the security after expiry of the deadline provided for in the Act, notabene prior to the amendment of 7 April Ub. r. even shorter than now, because the amount of 1 month is in no way dependent on the attitude and actions of the eligible creditor, with the exception of the safeguards decided pursuant to Article. 747 points 1 and 6 c.p.c. The creditor's application for both a declaration of enforceability and an application for execution did not interrupt the 2-month period during which, for example, it is difficult. effectively carry out a complex and long-term execution procedure from real estate. As a result, it was not legally possible to prevent the expiry of types of collateral, such as compulsory mortgage, maritime mortgage or the establishment of a ban on the transfer of cooperative ownership rights to the premises. Suggesting that the Constitutional Tribunal's statement on possible directions for the execution of the judgment of 25 October 2016 contained in such a way as not to impose new restrictions on the debtor under the creditor's rights, the applicant, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, proposed an amendment of the article. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code, according to which the security granted pursuant to Title II shall not fall after the expiry of the period indicated if the person entitled to apply for enforcement action within that period. In addition, the amendment proposes the introduction of a similar construction in the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration by adding § Article 8 154. The applicant also proposes to add an article in the Law on perpetual books and mortgage. 111 granting the creditor the right to submit a request for the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established pursuant to Article. 110 point 1 of that law in the mortgage, which secures the claim already established by the implementing title. The entitlement granted would be limited by a two-month period, calculated, as in the case of the wording of the Article. 754 § 1 c.p.c. - from the date on which the decision taking into account the claim which was subject to the protection was enforceable or from the date on which the decision rejecting the appeal or any other remedy brought by the debtor against the decision taking into account the claim which was subject to the protection was enforceable. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the project [[♪ The bell ♪]] the act as a whole and requests that it be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u239	Thank you very much. Minister Łukasz Piebiak asked for the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit, just a little bit of information. The government's position has not been formally adopted, but it is, of course, also positive. I am very pleased and thank the Senate very much on behalf of the government for this valuable initiative, and I thank the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs for their support for this senate initiative. I will not repeat all the things that have been said here and which strongly support this proposal to the Senate as soon as possible in order to protect the legitimate interests of creditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the law on enforcement proceedings in administration and the law on perpetual books and mortgage, print No. 2064. The aim of this proposal is to bring the provisions into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 25 October 2016 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 754 § 1 of the Act of 17 November 1964. Code of Civil Procedure with the Constitution. The Court held that the provision providing for the automatic termination of the compulsory mortgage one month after the decision taking into account the claim which was subject to the protection was valid is non-constitutional. According to the TK, this provision unduly limits the creditor's property rights. At the same time, the Constitutional Tribunal held that it would expire only 18 months after the publication of the judgment in the Official Journal, i.e. 30 June 2018. The modification of the statutory time limit for remaining in force after the final termination of legal proceedings has not resulted in the expected results. The collapse of the collateral protected the debtor, not the creditor. The extension of the deadline did not ensure the effective enforcement of the judgments on claims secured by the establishment of a compulsory mortgage on the debtor's property. The failure of the collateral after the expiry of the statutory deadline was still independent of the creditor's execution. In practice, executions from real estate take much longer than provided for by the Law 2 months. As a result, the successful execution of the debtor's property was often impossible. Even if the creditor immediately submitted a request for execution, the security fell 2 months after the final termination of the proceedings. In the case of claims secured by a compulsory mortgage on the debtor's property, execution within 2 months is in practice not feasible. This problem became the subject of an examination by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 25 October 2016, e.g. Act: SK 71/13. The Court has ruled on the non-constitutionality of the Article. 754 § 1 c.p.c. to the extent that it refers to securing claims by setting up a compulsory mortgage. The explanatory memorandum indicates that there is no justification for making the period after which the security is terminated independent of the enforcement of the creditor's actions. It removes the sense of securing claims by compulsory mortgage and undermines the effectiveness of enforcement proceedings. In addition, the Court considered that the legislator should introduce appropriate rules taking into account the specific features of securing claims in the form of a compulsory mortgage. The amendment proposed by the Senate provides that, in the event of a request for execution from the subject-matter of the security, the security will not fall within the statutory deadline. It shall be maintained until the execution of its subject-matter has been completed. High Izbo! The proposed direction of change should be considered to be correct. The adoption of the proposed law should contribute to improving the situation of creditors by increasing the effectiveness of enforcement of claims secured by compulsory mortgage.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u243	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Senate's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics, contained in print No. 2064, to the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications for consideration. I'm declaring a time-out. 16. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 23 hours 16 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood (Print No 2060). I would like a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civil Committee of the Legislative Initiative, let's save women, I have the honour to present to the High House a citizens' bill on women's rights and informed parenthood. We're here again. I say we are because I also represent millions of citizens and citizens who are in favour of our project. It is close to 42% of Poles and Poles. I am here as a representative of many people, the voice of a sovereign whom you are so eager to invoke. And this voice of ours must not be ignored, my fellow Members. Once you ignored and autumn 2016 showed how determined women are, how determined Poles are to fight for their rights and dignity. I'm talking about black protests. Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which is still the law in force, in art. 1 says: The Republic of Poland is the common good of all citizens, which we should all care for and care for. To ensure that Poland is for all of us a country in which we are treated equally, no one is discriminated against for any reason, including because of sex, and the constitutional principle of social justice contained in the article. 2 is fully implemented to each and every one of us. We've come here for the second time in less than two years. This was because the problem requiring an urgent solution, with which we are facing you, was not only not resolved by the High House, but on the contrary, our citizens' draft 2016 law was rejected in the first reading by the votes of the PIS, by the votes of Kukiz15. By rejecting it in this way, you have shown, unfortunately, a few in the Chamber today, Members of the Right, disregard for the aspirations of thousands of citizens and citizens. You have shown that you are not interested in the welfare of all citizens and citizens, and the law you want to create only under the dictation of the clergy. The circumstances have changed since then, too. In 2016, here in this room, some of you wanted Punish women in prison for miscarriage and abortion. Today, for a change, many and many of you are loudly expressing your support for a project that exposes women to the birth of beings unable to live on their own, exposing this child and the woman to unimaginable, inhuman suffering. A project supported by the hierarchs of the Church, by episcopate, fundamentalists and politicians awaiting the support of the first ones in exchange for taking away the dignity of women. It is no coincidence that the debate is taking place today. Somehow you must pay your debt to Mr. Rydzyk, which you have incurred by dismissing Mr. Szyszko and Mr. Macierewicz from the government. And you will pay as you can only with dignity and women's rights. You also have a second plan, an absolutely disgraceful plan, because you are making a manipulative motion signed by a group of Members of the right and waiting for it to be dealt with in a devastated and embezzled Constitutional Court. Access to emergency contraception has been drastically restricted since autumn 2016. It's prescription only today. In schools in classes, on subjects such as upbringing to family life, or even biology, more and more lies, myths and misconceptions are passed on and less reliable and modern knowledge. The lack of regulation on the clause of conscience results in attempts to extend it to the whole body of the health care system, including the pharmacy, but also to non-medical service activities. And although it was absolutely against the law, Minister Radziwiłł was already fortunately silent, and Minister Ziobro looked favorably at the refusal to provide services to non-hetero-normative persons. Why did such a refusal even occur? Because we lack education, including equality education, and the permission for discrimination comes from the rulers. By re-establishing the committee, let's save the women of 2017 and present another citizens' bill, we prove our determination, our determination to carry out the change we have been looking forward to since the quarter of a century. For this determination, for this stubborn pursuit of the goal, for creativity and I would definitely like to thank those who supported our project with their signature, as well as those who were present with me in the Chamber, who collected signatures against the opposites, against the attacks and insults that fell on them. They had the strength and determination to show that they were conscious and responsible citizens of the Republic. Thank you very much to everyone involved in the project. [[Applause]] I believe that this time the High House will want to work on our submission. High Seym! We citizens and citizens know that it is not only our duty to passively accept what the governing and parliamentary majority have to offer us. It is also our duty to ensure that Poland is a law-abiding country in which human rights, all, including reproductive rights, are implemented to all without any exceptions. That is why we are protesting against what happened in 1993, when, by introducing a law on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion, the freedom to decide about their own health and life was drastically reduced. We protest against the evil that this law causes by building the modern hell of women. We don't want to accept this anymore. The law on family planning, which has been in force for 25 years, is absolutely fictitious and contradicts the world-view neutrality of the state. In Poland there is no sexual education, in Poland there is no free access to contraception and information and prenatal research. Even access to this legal abortion is limited and women receive neither adequate medical or social and legal care. Annual reports on the implementation of the Act ignore the negative effects of its operation, such as the impact of abortion-related criminalisation on the actual lack of possibility of abortion, not to mention the abortion underground and the black market for abortion measures. They don't mention abortion tourism. The reports are also silent about the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in Polish cases, which order the Polish government to pay high compensation from the state budget. These are, ladies and gentlemen, our common money that we pay because you are not exercising the rules of the law in force. This current law, called a cynical compromise, and in fact one of the most restrictive legislation in this area of Europe, was not achieved as a result of any compromise, but as a result of the negotiations of Conservatives with the clergy without listening to the voice of those directly concerned, namely women and doctors, simply does not work. It's not working. Let me remind you a little bit. Abortion in Poland is allowed in three cases: the health and life of a woman, the result of a forbidden act and an embryopathological indication. He's a guaranteed witness. However, many contracted institutions, including the NFZ, refuse to provide these services. In 2016, a legal abortion was carried out in 47 units, accounting for around 10% all medicinal products contracted, inter alia. to provide such benefits. This shows that in Poland we have entire regions without access to legal abortion. So in Poland we have entire voivodships refusing citizens to exercise their rights. Is that something to be proud of? A reason to be proud in the state of law? The rule of law really doesn't apply? The reason for this actual inaccessibility is not only the unlawful inclusion of the conscience clause of entire individuals, entire hospitals or voivodships. The monitoring of procedures for access to legal abortion in Polish hospitals shows that individual doctors and doctors working in contracted institutions use different methods to avoid abortion in cases provided for by the law. They extend procedures, order additional tests, unnecessary, extracurriculars completely, add further requirements to finally declare that abortion is too late or that this doctor does not perform it anyway. In addition, the Council of Ministers breaks the law every year without reporting within the prescribed time limit. The last available report concerns 2014 and was drawn up during the PO-PSL governments. Since then, you've been breaking the law yourself, but we're actually starting to get used to it. However, according to research on abortion underground and abortion tourism, Poles perform between 80,000 a year. and 120,000. treatments per year. The pregnancy was interrupted by every fourth Polish woman, often illegally, often at risk of health or life. That's really not something to be proud of. It's a disgrace to this House, too. There is also a fundamental issue missing in the debate around the abortion bill: the right of a woman to dignity. After all, we are talking not only about reproductive rights, eggs, embryos, but above all about women, citizens of the Republic of Poland, about your sovereign, about theirs, about our dignity, freedom and rights. Women are entitled to constitutional health protection - art. 68, the protection of private and family life and the right to decide about your personal life - art. 47 as well as freedom of conscience and religion - art. 53. The woman's body and life are her own. No one can decide for her or force her to be heroic. In addition, public polls show increasing support for the proposal to mitigate current legislation. Today 42% He's on our side. The vast minority disagrees. 9% for exacerbation and 8% for exacerbation For a complete ban. So who are you, the state, representing: more than 80%, which is against restrictions or fundamentalistic margin? It is worth answering this question, because you know very well that among these 80% There are also right-wing voters, Kukiz's voters15, PSL voters, Law and Justice voters. Moreover, people with primary and vocational education rather than higher education, as well as people in small and medium-sized cities, are more in favour of reducing the right to terminate pregnancy. This result can be explained by the fact that less wealthy people, and education, as you may know, correlates with earnings, from small towns painfully feel the effects of abortion bans. Richer people living in large cities can afford expensive abortions and services of local abortion underground. Those poor, those poor of yours are doomed to put their health and their lives at risk. High Izbo! Polish women, as well as many Polish men, simply get tired of living in fear, deception, hypocrisy, which push women, wives, daughters, sisters into the position of eternally suspected potential criminals and second-class citizens. High Izbo! There is no exaggeration in saying that someone who is allowed to pursue in all areas of life, to reach for positions, even the highest offices, and who, at the same time, is forbidden by law to decide the most intimate and in my opinion the most important question of personal life, i.e. whether, when and how many children are born, is not a free man. Such a person, a free man in today's Poland is not a Polish woman. It's disgraceful, and it really arouses our anger. Believe me, it's terrifying to have a life accompanied by fear and a sense of devoid dignity. Most of the people in Parliament are men. My fellow Members, I am directing these words to you. It's real, not imaginary. This is in reality, not in your imaginations, the fate of your wives, daughters and sisters. First of all, we feel fear and anger, because we can feel anything else when we hear words for happiness from the former Minister of Health, a doctor who, for ideological reasons, refuses to help raped women, declaring that in no case will he write a prescription for a legal medicine in Poland to prevent pregnancy, referring cynically to an example of his own family. Former Minister Radziwiłł said: I have four daughters and more grandchildren, and in any case, I declare solemnly, if there was a terrible misfortune such as rape, I would certainly love this child and my grandson. I have the right to hold on to my conscience. What else is this statement, like not ignoring feelings, wills, wishes, desires of your daughters and grandchildren? He won't ask them, he'll decide their lives. And what the Polish people thought when they heard the words of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, the president of the ruling party, who rehearsed the minister: We will strive to ensure that even cases of extremely difficult pregnancy, when the child is sentenced to death, severely deformed, end in childbirth, so that this child can be baptized, buried, has a name. We have heard a fundamentalist, cruel command: to give birth when pregnancy is the result of a crime. To give birth to death and suffering. We, citizens and citizens, do not accept this attitude. We do not want such ministers, such doctors, such Poland and such laws that allow such immeasurable cruelty. [[Applause]] Gentlemen! Motherhood is a woman's happiness and privilege, but you can't, should never, under any circumstances, be a compulsion to any woman, because then it becomes a misfortune. I do not hesitate to say from this place: Tolerating the existing state of things, and even seeking to tighten it up and introduce a restrictive law, a discriminatory woman, you take on your conscience blood, tears, broken lives of many Poles, also yours, I repeat, wives, daughters and sisters, your fellow citizens. To sacrifice and love no one You can't force it. The ban is only the cause of human tragedies, the breakdown of families, the escape of young women from Poland to countries where the law respects freedom and dignity and allows them to be simply people. Only free choice, deciding whether, when and how many children they want to have, protects all women equally perfectly. By guaranteeing legal freedom of choice, we show respect, we make fully free women who will never, under no circumstances, decide to terminate pregnancy, but also those for whom abortion is an option. The High House, when adopting our project, offers the chance to make it so that the Polish people can be free in their elections again. We, the committee, save women, supported by millions of Poles and Poles, believe that this will happen. Mrs. Marshalkini! High Seym! I would like to quote here thousands of relationships between women and girls who have been injured, who have been injured, have been beaten, have been maimed, because the law that applies also leads, and you know that if a woman can't legally get pregnant, she can't legally remove the pregnancy, she can't legally terminate an unwanted or pathological pregnancy, she's looking for a way out of the law. Poland, after all, you know this very well, is a state of developed underground abortion and abortion tourism. Women and girls interrupt pregnancy, e.g. using untested preparations and using the help of doctors outside Poland. This often threatens their lives, it often threatens their health, and the quality of these services and procedures determines one thing: wallet thickness. These poor ones expose life and health or abandon their born children in secret in a field, in a barrel, in a garden, under a fence, in the best and rarest case in the window of life. These rich have better, elegant clinics and good medical care at their disposal. You order women to have a baby and give them up for adoption. Don't you realize that you don't understand that when you say that, you treat living, feeling, loving, thinking human beings as women, like living incubators, like an object, like a birth machine? What about the kids? What fate do you cook for them? The object of devotion? [[Life. We're saving their lives.]] What kind of respect do you teach for a child when you say, "Give birth and give birth?" It humiliates all children. It shows that they're almost like a thing to you. Give the baby away? Really? How's the closet? How's the table? [[Voice from the room: And kill the child?]] High Izbo! Another dramatic effect of your hypocrisy shows... [[Mrs. Basiu...]] ...data on the pregnancy of children, girls who are forced by the law and lack of sexual education to give birth to a child. The existing law, and even more ideological practice of its application, makes young people least aware of themselves, and whether we want it or not, sexual reality gives them bad solutions. The lack of reliable sexual education and youth-friendly guidance centres in the field of sexual education in schools results in unplanned pregnancies and infections of sexually transmitted diseases. There's a growing number of teenage births. For young girls unplanned, too early pregnancy is a real drama, a common cause of suicide attempts and always a threat to mental and physical health. The statistics available show that 1213 children had children under the age of 15. I repeat, the girls were infinitely 15 years old. And a teenager's pregnancy lasts the same as an adult woman, nine months. And these are only living births that are included in the statistics, and only births by the youngest ones. What is the future of a 12 - year - old who only learns during childbirth that she is pregnant? There was a case in Kielce, and it's not one isolated case. The doctors told the media that the girl and her baby had had a hard time having a baby. It was necessary to apply a C-section because the baby had a disproportionate birth disproportionateity, or pelvis of the girl, so that the baby could be born so that the baby could have a baby. [[Voice from the room: I wonder if abortion would survive.]] The little girl who went into the delivery room and didn't know what was going on with her, she didn't know how to behave, the doctors said she couldn't work with an anesthesiologist. [[Voice from the hall: Where were the feminists?]] The obstetrician was helpless to comment: Such young patients are completely immature, it is difficult to persuade them to cooperate in childbirth, even when injecting or giving them anesthetic. Twelve-year-old girl. Or the case of 14-year-old Agnieszka from West Pomerania, who gave birth to her unwanted child in the locker room during a gym class. She was afraid to tell her friends about the pregnancy. She was afraid, she was ashamed, she didn't expect any help out of nowhere, because, and how could she know that she could expect this help. There was no proper sexual education, no knowledge, no education, no support. Do you hear the drama? Do you hear these dramas, Members and Members? You who are responsible for the lack of modern, knowledge-based, not mythology or religious beliefs, the education of our children, are responsible for their lack of ability to seek help when they are harmed and become victims of sexual assault. Yeah, it's your responsibility. All studies show that the perpetrators of sexual violence on the youngest children are almost always adults from their immediate surroundings. In the case of older children, i.e. children of school age, they are not only people from the nearest environment, but also people who are an authority for children: priests, teachers, colonial educators, trainers. Those who should take care of their children often hurt them and harm them with impunity, because those who believe the child, especially since many children who are hurt are unaware that what happens to them is harm and unlawful abuse of their right to dignity. Sexual violence against children is born of the wrong will and mindlessness of adults, but also of your political and political, ideological unwillingness to admit that life often deviates from a picture you can hear about in a Sunday sermon in the church. Every year, several thousand underage girls give birth to children. How much more does she abort in the underground, in fear, humiliated in this way enter adulthood? Their number will probably increase because the former Minister of Health in the meantime took away their last plank of rescue, or emergency contraception. You're saying he didn't pick up, he just stepped up his care, 'cause after a prescription, you have to go to a doctor. You're deceiving each other and trying to fool us. After all, you know that an underage girl has to go to a doctor with an adult - a parent or legal guardian. Is he gonna go? She's not gonna go, because she's gonna be embarrassed. You know that. You're just pretending to be ignorant. You know that very well. The right to fair and proper protection is the right of our children, including boys. They need to know, too, to get that solid knowledge, to find out how to live, not hurt girls and themselves. Whether we give them this knowledge depends on whether young Poles build a pattern in themselves of a man who can be a partner and support, or life patterns will tell them about the violence of online porno-education. I'm in favour of honest education at school. I'm hoping you'll come to your senses, too. Dare you finally grant young people the right to sexual education adapted to their age and ability to perceive. Let's get the lie and the hypocrisy out of the school. Young people who have received reliable sexual education are 50% less exposed to unwanted pregnancy than young people who have received abstinence-oriented sexual education. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Research carried out by the Educational Research Institute on behalf of the Ministry of National Education showed that 87% adolescents and 88% Parents believe that classes on the development of psychosexual and sexuality of people should take place, ladies and gentlemen, at school. 88%. [[Voice from the hall: They are taking place.]] Lack of sexual education threatens not only an unwanted pregnancy but also a serious increase in the risk of sexually transmitted diseases. The increase in these figures is confirmed by e.g. Data from the State Hygiene Facility. Poland is a country in the European Union with the highest proportion of people unaware of being infected with HIV. It is estimated that more than 50% of Poles and Poles do not know that HIV affects them. No one at school or at home tells young people that this is a problem that can affect any sexually active person... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...but it does not feel the need to perform preventive tests or mechanical protection against infections. Chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, including congenital syphilis, are increasingly a real challenge for public health. Remember that the lack of education, the ban on contraception and forced birthing are yours, Members and Members, wine. Can you live with that? High Izbo! The right-wing environments, which continually attack our project, often refer to the civilization of life, which is supposed to resist the Western civilization of death. I absolutely do not know what civilization of death is, but I do know that what you are proposing is difficult to call civilization of life. The legal state you defend, in which you sentence women and their families to suffering, death, traumas resulting from the birth of children sentenced to death, shame, hypocrisy, violation of the law and distrust of the state, that's hell. I also know that I am not alone in this astonishment of a huge confusion of concepts. The right-wing defense of life from the moment of conception, i.e. the emergence of an unpersonalized existence of cells, is made at the expense of us, all women, us, families, us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland who lose respect for their own country sanctioning hypocrisy, abortion underground, and thus breaking the principle of democracy, in which the majority cannot violate the rights of minorities. High Izbo! The draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood has been based on the demands of non-governmental organisations for women's rights for years. Reproduction rights understood as the right to protect reproductive health and self-determination in matters of procreation belong to the canon of fundamental human rights and are also protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. We are aware of our efforts to recognise even existing conditions for the removal of pregnancy as unconstitutional, and therefore we are preparing for your attack on our law as incompatible with the existing Constitution of the Republic of Poland. However, as citizens and citizens, we do not agree with this opinion. Moreover, we believe that our law is the implementation of a number of constitutional provisions not sufficiently guaranteed for women by ordinary legislation, in particular when the basic law requires respect for the right to dignity - Article. 30, guarantees everyone the right to legal protection of private, family life and to decide on their personal life - art. 47, right to health care - Article. 68, and the protection of motherhood and parenthood - Article. 18. Our project is also, in terms of guaranteeing equal freedom of choice for all women, the implementation of the article. 32 Constitution, which states that everyone is equal to the law, all have the right to equal treatment by public authority. Because what else is a statutory ban on abortion, and not a violation of the constitutional right to equal treatment of all women, including those who believe... [[Voice from the hall: Everyone, children conceived too.]] ...that the legal status of the child is only given to the fetus after birth. During his exposé less than a month ago, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said: The next field of action is zero tolerance for violence and equal opportunities for women. The state is really strong if it is able to protect its weaker. Therefore, I firmly say: there is no consent of the Polish government to violence or any consent to violence. We therefore call for the Prime Minister and the Government to also support a project that combats violence against women in the area of sexuality, reproductive rights... [[Voice from the room: Violence against children.]] ...and above all, he supported dignity. High Seym! The content of the draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood is all of you, I hope, well known. However, I will therefore focus on a few of the most important provisions. First of all, which reflects our thinking about the relationship of the state - the law - the man, our project is subject to the article. 3.1. and 3.2. Rules: Everyone has the right to self-determination in the field of reproduction in conditions that allow informed decision on parenthood and everyone has the right to information, education, guidance and means to exercise the right to informed parenting. High Seym! The draft Law on Women's Rights and Aware Parenthood resolves after years of hypocrisy and human rights violations against women with a burning problem of the admissibility of abortion. This will be possible if a woman does not want to continue pregnancy until 12 weeks of pregnancy. As for the more advanced pregnancy, the proposal allows it to be interrupted under the same conditions as the current law. Here I would like to appeal for an end to a shameless lie, which we also expect to be cited today, widely distributed in the public opinion, that in the vast majority of cases of legal termination of pregnancy due to damage to the fetus, their cause is so-called. Down syndrome. The data provided to the Federation for Women and Family Planning by the health resort shows that among 1042 abortions performed due to defects detected in the foetus, abortions due to Down syndrome accounted for around 21%. Those 21% it does not constitute, ladies and gentlemen, the majority or the vast majority. Most treatments, on the other hand, have been caused by somatic defects in one or more organs, as well as cardiovascular, musculoskeletal and urinary disorders, brainlessness, spinal bifida and in many other dramatic cases. Stand in the truth, do not repeat these lies today. A country which respects human rights in such a situation should support the decision of a woman, any decision that a woman makes, not stalk, track, chase a citizen. Because persecution of women must be called both today's restriction of access to prenatal research and further attempts to ban legal abortion for embryopathological reasons. No one gives you the right to force people to be heroic or to require them to suffer beyond their strength. Nobody gave you that right. High Seym! In order for the principle of self-determination to actually be implemented in respect of every citizen and every citizen, knowledge and understanding, i.e. universal and easily accessible sexual education, are essential. We believe that it should be covered by all children and young people learning in public schools. This is the duty of a country that Poland has not done for too long. In our draft, this issue concerns the article. 6.1. School curricula for classes 0-III are introduced: preparation for family life and society, not less than 1 hour per week and are introduced into the school curriculum from grade IV to the end of primary education subject: knowledge about human sexuality, not less than 1 hour per week. These subjects are adapted to the age, stage of psychosexual development, cognitive abilities and needs of students and students. The division into two blocks has been introduced because, in our opinion, the youngest children should be given the basis of knowledge of correct social relations, stereotype-free knowledge, prejudices, knowledge of gender equality and the right partnership based knowledge, without violence between men and women in the family and society, as part of the proposed preparation for family life and society. It's crucial if we're finally going to deal with the harm, the violence, the humiliation. In our view, this knowledge is essential because only knowledge can protect children from the drama of sexual violence and domestic violence. We urge you to stop lying at last and acknowledge that sex was, is and, ladies and gentlemen, will be present in the life of Polish teenagers. Let us help them grow up and grow up consciously and safely. Only knowledge will allow young people to make wise, conscious decisions, protect against both sexual abuse and sexually transmitted diseases, and, above all, build intimate relationships based on respect and dignity. Only reliable sexual education will help reduce the drama of unwanted teen pregnancy. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Polish people and Poles, like all people, want to be happy, to love, to have wonderful families, to raise children in them. In order to support them in this, there is no need for orders or prohibitions, nor for the naive, ridiculous seriousness of the rabbit propaganda of the former Minister of Health. However, state aid is necessary through professionally providing family planning services and widely available contraception, including emergency contraception. The embarrassing state negligence in the 21st century solves the provisions contained in our article. 4 and 7. High Izbo! In presenting our project, I would like to draw attention to the two other solutions contained in it. Both are here because we believe it is absolutely necessary to increase the protection of women's and children's rights. We propose a change in the so-called solutions. a clause of conscience from which, as today, the highest and only goal is to protect the conscience of a doctor, on one which respects the rights of doctors, but which is the highest good, recognizes the safety and rights of women, the safety and the rights of patients. [[Voice from the hall: Especially the unborn.]] Solutions contained in Article 11 impose an obligation on public health and NFZ to disclose the names of doctors, midwives, nurses who use a clause of conscience, and where all employees use a clause of conscience, requires the conclusion of a contract with a subcontractor. This is to prevent further cases when the so-called. The clause of conscience deprives patients of access to legal, lawful and paid by insured persons under contributions to NFZ health services. Because doctors want a conscience, they want a conscience clause, they should be proud of it, not hide their beliefs from patients. High Seym! Our duty is always to protect the weakest. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] That is why we propose a solution to protect women in gynaecological and obstetric hospitals from violence and lying and the drastic images contained in the propaganda of the environment against women's rights, freedoms and dignity. They often constitute an abuse of the right to freedom of expression. By banning their presence in public space, we protect those who need this protection most - pregnant women who come to hospitals or who are in hospitals where these images and these gatherings cause fear, disgust, which thus affect the deterioration of their mental and physical health, and also affect children who are exposed to this view, including your children, including the children of your followers. Thus, we protect public space from lies, brutality, cruelty, obscenity and mischief. That's why it's in the art. 12 prohibition of placing the content and organising meetings against the provisions of this Act at a distance of less than 100 m from medicinal entities, in particular gynaecological and obstetric hospitals, as well as educational establishments such as schools and kindergartens. This solution is also supported by many of the supporters of your parties, including those of the Law and Justice, because they, when we collected signatures, said: do something about this disgusting thing, we do not want our children to look at lies and manipulation. You know that very well. We, the committee, save women, but also all who have supported us, come to the Sejm, believing deeply that the law established should serve men and not humiliate them. If you consider the issues discussed here today, using your own judgment and belief in human goodness, honesty and the ability to make rational decisions, it will be easy for you to understand the simplest truth: to have a right to something does not mean to exercise that right. To have easy access to knowledge means to have a chance to avoid error. Being deprived of the right to knowledge, that is, to live in lies and hypocrisy, to be deprived of conscious choice. What country would we all prefer to live in? In the one that chose everything for us, or in the one that supports us in making choices? Answer that question, maybe quietly this time. We're responding to our project. We want a friendly, open Poland where women do not escape discrimination and forced birth, we want freedom and respect for dignity and human rights. Poland is a common good regardless of political colours. And the law is to be created for all regardless of political preferences and faith. It is your duty, Members and Members, to make such a law so that every citizen and every citizen in Poland feels worthy and safe. It is your duty to ensure that it does not lead to the risk of life and health of citizens and citizens. And the citizen's risk of life and health is a law that criminalizes standard treatments in the vast majority of European countries and in fact supports only underground and abortion tourism. After all, it is your duty to take care of the good and safe development of younger generations, including by providing them with neutral worldview knowledge, also about the sexuality and reproduction of man. Poland is and will be a neutral worldview country. The more politicians, clergy and government hit women's rights, the more they introduce religious orders and the forced faith into education and the functioning of society, the stronger this social pendulum will reflect towards secularization. You can see that from the data. Fewer people want to participate in the seminary you fund, fewer people go to church. When voting on this project, when voting on the future, remember what will lead to what you plan to do. By introducing the project, let us save women, we appeal to you, Members and Members, for a deeper reflection not only on reproductive rights, on conscious parenthood or access to knowledge consistent with the current state of biology and medicine. We call for a smart law that takes care of the dignity of citizens and citizens. We appeal to you for a very simple thing: common decency. And regardless of your decision today, we will not allow the Polish state to be ruled by religious fundamentalists and zealous, party performers of orders of part of the Catholic hierarchy. We will never agree to our home: the commissioner would walk through the window and the bishop would come out from under the bed. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u245	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Milczanowska will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. [[Applause]] You're welcome. [[Well done, Anne.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood, brought in accordance with the law on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens. The subject matter of the proposed law drawn up by the Committee of the Legislative Initiative "Save Women 2017" are changes in the law that are not only incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, because this project eliminates or drastically reduces the protection of the life of a child growing in the womb. It removes from the Polish legal order the definition of a child conceived, and the possibility of killing a child before his birth proposes to raise the right of the subjective mother, as if the unborn child were her property. It is therefore proposed in the majesty of the law that a hideous crime is to kill a helpless child whose parents gave their lives, but... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...one of them could also be master or mistress of life and death. The provision of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child determines, after all, that the child is every human life from conception to adulthood, and we must say this directly: the problem of abortion is a dispute about humanity, life is the most important value we have on earth, and everyone should have the right to protect it, therefore our constitution, [[Applause]] Polish law upholds human life at every moment. In 1997, the Constitutional Tribunal recognised and the 2008 judgment confirmed that human life begins with conception. The growing new man therefore owes us care and safety without exception, because no one has three lives like in the virtual world, and no one has the right to condemn him to death, because if they want the designers to do so, they still allow time, even if only the forecasted disease. Each single attempt at this security, becoming a threat to one man, constitutes a loss of confidence in the people responsible for it. There is no responsibility for social life without responsibility for the life of a vulnerable child and there can be no killing of a disabled or sick child. It must be shouted out loud on behalf of those who cannot defend themselves, and it must be emphasized here that it is not a matter of worldview or religion. After all, everyone has the right to live, even though it may be harder for some to understand, regardless of party membership. In order to create a community today, the foundation of which is the family, homeland, tradition and wisdom of our fathers, we cannot close ourselves to the fundamental value of human life from conception to natural death. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is strongly opposed to this project in its entirety, especially as if its authors had little illegal assassination on life, they also decided to attack freedom of conscience and expression of views, parental rights, penalising even the very criticism of the abortion process and convincing mothers to give up on it. It also drastically limits the medical clause of conscience, as pointed out in its opinion by the General Medical Council. All of this must be spoken decisively and loudly, repeating the words spoken in Łowicz during the 1990 pilgrimage by St. John Paul II: I address all the fathers and mothers of my homeland and the whole world, all the people without exception. Every person conceived in the womb has the right to live. A good change is also in order to talk, these important truths remind people and convince society, women, how important they are. We owe this to all people lost in the world of half- and post-truths, and Poland with its undeniable heritage is guilty of it to other nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u247	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will be delivered by Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u248	High Izbo! Today we consider two projects, extremely different, but both relate to women's rights. You can't discuss one project, let alone another. The one we are currently working on, women's rights and informed parenthood, liberalizes the current law and contains provisions on sexual education, access to contraception, affects matters related to the clause of conscience. There is also a second proposal to amend the 1993 law on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion. A conservative project that tightens the rules in which you try to build the world, imposing your ideological narrative and worldview on others, often lying and, unfortunately, manipulating. Two projects have emerged in a specific public space, and that is what we need to remember. Today, in Poland, there is a law defined by compromise, a compromise that does not satisfy many representatives of each side of the debate, but for two years it has ensured security and social peace. This is why last year the Civic Platform Club tabled a draft resolution on respect for compromise. In the resolution, we asked all sides of the debate, the party of conservative values and the party of liberal values, not to arouse ideal escalations, ideas of conflict and worldview war. Unfortunately, this has failed and it will not succeed, because the parliamentary majority wants to tighten up the rules in force. This was announced by Mr Kaczyński, and I quote, "We will strive to ensure that even cases of very difficult pregnancies, when the child is sentenced to death, severely deformed, end in childbirth, so that this child can be baptized and buried." I am asking if you want Jarosław Kaczyński and the prosecutor and policeman to decide on difficult, traumatic decisions of women in Poland. Is the pregnancy to be run by a prosecutor, or is the pregnancy to be run by a doctor? Is the pregnancy to be decided by a woman in consultation with a doctor? After all, the woman at the end stays alone, with her doubts, doubts, conscience and morality, because in the end it is her choice, it is the woman who decides the fate of the pregnancy, the pregnancy that threatens her life, the pregnancy that is embryopathological, where there is no chance that the fetus survives or the pregnancy that comes from rape. They were, are, and will be women's dissension and the final decisions of women. It remains for us law-making politicians whether the state, whether the state apparatus will stand on the side of a woman and provide it with the right conditions for informed parenting, for a sense of safety during pregnancy and care after the birth of a child. State apparatus - the state must provide women with access to knowledge, modern medicine, sexual education, medical care, psychological care and financial assistance. Prohibitions, orders - they will not solve the problem of unwanted pregnancies or force women to give birth to children with severe, irreversible defects, doomed only to suffering and death. Today, Poland has one of the most restrictive rights in Europe, but it is dead, it is not respected. For over 2 years in Poland we have a government that hates women. One step at a time, they're taking women's rights. [[Touchdown, applause]] PiS first eliminated in vitro funding, then destroyed sexual education in schools, reduced access to contraception and promoted erection pills. It does not implement the provisions of the anti-violence convention, promotes the marriage calendar, extends and promotes the clause of conscience, and finally Poles and Poles are forced to reproduce. Like rabbits. The "Save Women" project contains records that cannot be rejected. The project should be addressed to further work in the committee primarily because of issues relating to sexual education, access to contraception and the regulation of the question of conscience clause. These are important aspects that build women's safety. The safety of women is today, dear Members and dear Members, in our hands. The decision in this case is in the green, red or yellow button in the seym. But this button is not used to calm your conscience, because no one, and above all no politician, is able to or cannot be the conscience of other people, cannot be the conscience of women. [[Applause]] I don't think anyone in this room supports abortion, but women need to be left with choices and decisions. Today in Poland there is a law... Excuse me. Maybe a few more facts. The facts are that in the 21st century in Poland 1/3 of women do not use contraception, there is no refund of contraceptive pills, and the day after the tablet is really not available, because first you have to go to a doctor, i.e. take a step the day before. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And only because, High Izbo...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u249	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u250	...and, above all, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of further work in the Committee on Women's Rights and Aware Parenthood.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u251	I'll keep time disciplined. Everybody's got the same number. Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u252	We need to talk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u253	Now you have the floor of Elżbieta Zielińska, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the Kukiz Club15, it will be absolutely individual to decide whether to vote on the bill to be applied. At this point, however, I would like to draw attention to the following issues on my own behalf. First of all, I would like to refer to the statement of the applicant who presented, or actually forgot to present the project a little bit, but he just kept quoting some strange statements, e.g. that the project is supported by millions of Poles. That's not true. The project, which is extremely different, received four times more signatures. In fact, it is not really known how you counted these signatures, whether you lied consciously that this project was supported, because later it turned out that these signatures were over 200,000. [[Applause]] At this point, I would also like to say that there is such a thing as an individual genetic code - a child is not an unidentified set of cells. You're the one who talked about treating children in question. So I would count on words in this case as well. [[Applause]] I would like to raise questions about the draft law itself, among others. the issue of abortion up to 24 weeks of pregnancy if there is a likelihood of severe and irreversible impairment of the foetus or of an incurable illness threatening its life. At this point, I would like to draw attention to two points. Firstly, the issue of legal language is changing, and this is very important, for example, about probability. However, pregnancy is an emergency and there is always a chance. Thus, this provision consciously opened the door to abortion by the 24th week of pregnancy. Either an incompetent person prepared it, or it is a conscious action. The second point is that in recent years, great progress has been made in prenatal surgery medicine, where the best results in intrauterine surgery are achieved between 22 and 25 weeks of pregnancy. You think it's best to kill a child at this time. Meanwhile, there are many new diagnostic methods. There are studies that are constantly being improved. Currently, modern diagnostics allow not only the detection of an existing defect, but also a very precise, precise definition of its type. New opportunities for early identification of structural layers can contribute precisely to the development of intrauterine fetal surgery. The fetal surgery with spina bifida, hydrocephalus - for example, in the Bytom facility is on the agenda, we achieve some of the best results in Europe. And why do we achieve some of the better results there? Because basically all over Europe, this moment is treated as a moment when you can apply an abortion that is just cheaper. At this point, human life, simply because abortion is cheaper, is consciously destroyed. [[Applause]] Another issue is, for example, the assumptions of the so-called. sexual education. I'd like to read the list of specialists who made these assumptions. I don't know why children in the age range from 1st to 3rd grade need knowledge about the concept of social diversity and tolerance. However, this is the role of parents and parents should decide on these sensitive issues. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Just intolerance...]] These are little children, and you want to teach them ideologically. In fact, only a narrow ideological group wants to introduce these issues. You are talking about creating a list of doctors using a conscience clause and publishing this list in the BIP. Why do you want to piss on doctors who have opinions about abortions? Who needs a list like this? Thanks to the surgery I was talking about, parents and children have a chance of a normal life. Instead of deciding to die of these children, Poland as the leading country could indicate these advances in medicine and give these children a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Shame on you. What kind of kids are we murdering? What right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u255	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz.15. Thirty-seven more seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u256	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Due to respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and due to respect for the Constitutional Tribunal and the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, we place a dot over and in this discussion, i.e.. Mr Bartosz Józwiak and I are filing a motion to reject the project at first reading. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: PiS appetizer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u257	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Modern Club, Mrs Joanna Schuering-Wielgus... Oh, no, sorry, first Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen! A law on women's rights and informed parenthood is a law on women's dignity. It's a law that doesn't tell women how to live, it's not based on ideology, it's a choice. For us as a modern superior value has always been and is freedom - freedom of choice, freedom to decide who we want to be in our lives, to guide it in harmony with our own conscience. We may have different opinions about abortion and the conditions for its admissibility... [[It's true.]] ...but as a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, I will always stand by the free choice of women. There was a king, the last of the Jagiellonian dynasty, Zygmunt August, whose words have just become an example of tolerance and worldview freedom. When there were fights between Protestants and Catholics in Europe, he said to his subjects: I am not the king of your consciences. In the meantime, what power do we have now? After a noisy reconstruction, the minister of health became a man who signed a declaration of faith a few years ago. [[Applause]] [[That's a good change.]] He thus stated that he was against abortion and in vitro, but also against contraceptives. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Great.]] We don't want to live in a country like this. From this point on, I would like to appeal to all Members, especially Members on my right: do not be masters of women's consciences, do not try to be them. Let women make decisions on their own behalf. But let's give them support, no matter what the decision is. It's very important. I would like to point out that the law on women's rights and informed parenthood highlights the strong role of sexual education. She introduces a compulsory study of the preparation for family and society life and the knowledge of sexuality from grade IV to the end of education and stresses the importance of security, which is very important from the point of view of women - security that women should feel, often set up by high-level elections. This bill simply respects the subjectivity of women... [[Voice from the room: What about the children?]] ...their peril, their freedom of choice, that freedom that is still guaranteed in our constitution. [[A voice from the courtroom: But he questions their rights...]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will remind you every time from this speaker and show that the current government is extremely against women. Five examples: you have restored mandatory prescriptions for emergency contraception; you have attempted to terminate the anti-violence convention; you have withdrawn from in vitro funding; you have announced changes to the standards developed for several years around the birth; you are taking funding from women's organizations, such as the Centre for Women's Rights or the National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family. Therefore, we have no illusions as to whether this law in this Seym, in this conservative political arrangement, has strong support, such support is found. We already know that. Today, it will be a success to stop the supporters of more severe abortion. In the future, liberalisation will be a success. The Modern Club is in favour of referring the bill to further work on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u259	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll focus on one element of this bill. The project of the "Save Women" initiative assumes a very important thing: protecting Poles... [[What about the kids?]] ...before the evil of an abortion underground, from unwanted pregnancies, from many human dramas and tragic consequences of these dramas. This is a proposal that forces honest education about the nature of man, because every human being is a sexual being and the more Polish youth will know about how to plan their sex life, how to decide when, and how many children to have, the less abortion will be. Ladies and gentlemen, knowledge doesn't hurt and knowledge is priceless. [[Applause]] [[Then you're all made of wounds.]] Remember that, especially you. We learn in Polish school, mathematics, physics, and we don't learn about one of the fundamental spheres of sexuality. Meanwhile, with the stubbornness of a better case, my law and justice colleagues in sexual education make a ghost. Dear Members of the Law and Justice, access to reliable knowledge is not a luxury, it is our duty to give it to young people. And this project, this project, let's save women, has a chance to civilize the areas they're touching. Barbara Nowacka spoke of a good law. A good law is one that regulates reality. That's the law, that's the project, let's save women. And the project, which does not regulate reality and pushes ideology into Polish houses and imposes a world view, will be proceded here in a moment. Shame on you if you vote for him. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We will vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u261	Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood, print no. 2060. The contested bill is part of the regulation of the moral, ethical and worldview sphere. Therefore, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to declare that Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party themselves will decide whether to support or not the bill presented. Of course, they will take a decision in this regard in the course of the vote. Regardless of the above, I would like to point out that the project that we are discussing today, regardless of the title of this project, concerns the right to the life of the conceived children. The bill in my view is based on false assumptions regarding the determination of the embryo and fetus itself, and this term is basic biological knowledge. From a biological, medical, and anatomical point of view, neither embryo nor fetus are cells that are insignificant. [[Applause]] Each embryo, regardless of its species, is always a new life - a new life, a new one capable of developing to an adult. Hence, a human embryo or fetus cannot be regarded as something closer to an indeterminate life that another person can almost freely decide about. [[Applause]] And that is the fundamental contradiction between biological and medical knowledge and the proposal of solutions for this newly created life contained in the bill. I would also like to point out that this knowledge about the emergence of new life, embryo and fetus are recognised by numerous religions of the world and very different civilizations. Moreover, pregnancy as a woman's condition should not be and in any religion is not regarded as something bad, undesirable, but on the contrary, it is a joy called simply a blessing or a gift of nature. [[Applause]] However, in the bill submitted, I would like to appreciate the proposals on education and information. In this respect, there is indeed a great deal to be done in the field of both biology, human anatomy, sexology as well as methods of preventing pregnancy, protection against diseases and protection against sexual violence. Given the demographic situation of our country, I regret that the project does not generally focus on protecting the conceived life, it does not create any incentive for giving birth and raising children. I also regret that the project is in no way moving towards improving the adoption process. Here, too, there is a real need to strengthen the whole system, because there are very, very many families who want to adopt and raise children when they cannot be biological parents for different reasons. Listening to all the debates that have been and are being held on this subject, we have brought sex, I think, to a physiological phenomenon, and an incredibly intimate act between people who have feelings and at the same time responsibility for each other and responsibility for the child to be conceived. Please note how much the discussion has vulgarized this intimate sphere of our lives. We are not talking about what is beautiful between people, how we can help each other, including those who show a great desire to have and raise children, but at all costs we are looking for ways to remove them and make them a topic of ideological discussion and politics. To conclude, I will also point out that the project contains non-constitutional proposals for legal protection of life, as well as strict rules for doctors applying in their work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a clause of conscience refusing to perform the procedure to remove the pregnancy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u263	Mr Jarosław Porwich, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u264	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood, print No. 2060. First of all, it should be pointed out that the draft tabled by the Committee of the Legislative Initiative (Save women) has been negatively assessed, although it can also be said that it has been crushed, among others. by the Polish County Union, the Catholic Association of Polish Doctors, the Union of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland and the General Medical Council. [[What kind of doctor relationship?]] As regards details, first, the proposed law provides for a new public task to be imposed on the counties by setting up and financing guidance centres for informed parenting and reproductive rights and ensuring access to pregnancy prevention measures under the local reproductive health programmes which are health policy programmes. This new task meets with great criticism of local governments. Extra load. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce new subjects in school curricula for six-year-olds, since classes 0-III, in the field of sexual education. In our opinion, it's a very bad idea. Thirdly, new solutions are being introduced for abortion and, therefore, under the cover of women's rights, designers intend to sanction - let's not be afraid to call things by name - homicide. We're not authorized to do that. Fourthly, designers also want children conceived to carry out research experiments. We're not authorized to do that. etc., etc., etc. We firmly state that this project is not only very bad in ethical and moral terms, but, above all, it is contrary to human rights, contrary to Polish legal order, constitution and several laws and European law. Therefore, in our view, the project is absolutely not eligible for further legislative work and therefore, on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u265	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u266	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There is no doubt that we are starting a debate in which we are dealing with an area which affects very basic values, important for many, probably for most citizens of the Republic of Poland. And I am not only referring to religious views, although it is the fact that the progressive offensive of religious fundamentalism, radicalism of religious attitudes also increases the anti-religious moods and radicalization of environments that do not share faith in God. [[Voice from the room: What does that have to do with anything?]] The area that is regulated in the draft tabled by the Committee Let's save women, also concerns such a non-religious but fundamental issue as the issue of human liberty, in particular women. There is no doubt that the Polish state, having some of the most restrictive solutions concerning abortion, at the same time very often fails when a woman decides to have a child and then, after birth, does not receive support from her partner and sometimes it happens that also family. In fact, the programme that was proposed by the Government of Law and Justice, then by Mrs Beata Szydło, support for women who decide to have a child with a serious illness, in this case also extremely disappointing, is far insufficient and does nothing to improve the situation of women who decide to have children with serious disabilities. Although this issue applies to many people, of course, regardless of gender, because everyone has an opinion about it, and in any case they may have, without a doubt, it concerns women in particular. The position of the European Union of Democrats on this issue has been consistent from the outset: the question of whether or not to maintain the existing provisions of the Family Planning Act should be subject to a referendum. It should be the subject of a referendum because there is no reason why Mr Protasiewicz is to express himself and has the right to express his opinion on this matter, and the wife of Mr Protasiewicz is deprived of that right. This Parliament, because women represent less than 1/3 Members, is also not credible when it comes to decision-making. [[So we should also say in a referendum whether we can steal or not.]] In the Lower House, women are less than 1/3, in the Senate, who will also speak on this issue, only 13 out of 100 parliamentarians are women. [[There is no pregnancy without men, sir.]] So, in a society where women are the majority, women's affairs and freedoms are to be decided by a parliament where women are a significant, unfortunately significant, majority. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, a minority. There is also a second reason why we believe that this Parliament is not representative of resolving this issue. As a result of such and not another election result, a very serious representation of Poles who have left-wing views did not find themselves in this parliament, not because there is no support of voters and that their opinions are not shared by a significant part of the Polish public opinion, just because the mechanism of electoral ordination worked differently. The Union of European Democrats will be in favour of putting forward a project submitted by the citizens' committee. Let us save women for further work not because we like each of the solutions recorded there. However, there is no doubt that issues relating to access to information, education and guidance on informed parenting, mandatory assistance from government and local authorities, as well as much broader access to contraception are solutions that absolutely deserve attention. Other issues should be the subject of parliamentary reflection, albeit once again - first of all [[♪ The bell ♪]] the subject of a national referendum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u267	Mr Robert Winnicki, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project presented by Barbara Nowacka is a project born of lies and hatred. From lying, because you've been lying since the beginning of the debate that started in the 20th century on child murder. You lie in this room, you lie again, you lie in the day, you lie in the night. You lie about sexual education, you lie about the beginning of a man's life, you lie about responsible parenting, you lie about the role of a woman and the role of a man. But it is a project born primarily of hatred for life, to the conceived life. It is extremely and extremely hypocritical that this project has been named "Save Women." What about about about about the statistically half of the women? 'Cause half the kids who've been bartered. These are statistically women, these are girls. Do you think about them too? [[Applause]] Do you think of those who, like Gianna Jessen, today a prominent pro-life activist in the world, survived an abortion? She survived an abortion, although her parents sentenced her to this abortion. She's very sick. She's a disabled person. The medical staff at the hospital where she was supposed to be killed at the hospital where the child murder was to be carried out rescued her. She survived that abortion. Now he drives around the world and warns against people like you, people like you, and supporters of killing unborn children... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Take this finger.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] ...in front of barbarians like you sitting here today in this courtroom. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Shame on you.]] [[Take it easy, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The lie about killing conceived children, which you want to introduce into Polish legislation in any way, is not just a lie of a fundamental contradiction with several articles of the Polish Constitution, it is primarily a civilizational and cultural lie. You're talking about women's rights, women's issues. The issue of the conceived child is not just a matter of women, it is a responsibility of both men and women, and you are the best allies of all the Lowlass, all the Pan Peters, all the men who are not responsible for what they do with their sex, sexual life. You're the best allies because men are responsible, and you take that responsibility off. They leave women alone, and you say, no problem, a woman will have an abortion, do whatever you want in your sex life, gentlemen. Conquests, yes, conquests. You're allies now... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're talking about Mr Zbonikowski, aren't you?]] [[You need to calm down.]] ...and the porn business you're supposed to be fighting. You are allies of the depravity you are calling for in this project. You are calling for the introduction of child sexuality from an early age, the introduction of science and the promotion of perverts in this project... [[The voice from the hall: Sex Business.]] ...so as in the West... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Joan Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal, respond.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u269	Sit down and don't disturb me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u270	...in school textbooks...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u271	Member, please sit down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u272	Calm down. I know, I know the truth hurts. [[Marshal, do something.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u273	Do I have a lady...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u274	I know the truth hurts, but just calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u275	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u276	...as in the West, where the school textbooks are... [[Voice in the O.R.: Do your duty.]] ...deviant instruction. That's what you want to do in Poland. And unfortunately, it's not for protecting women, it's only for young people to take, even children, risky behavior, sexual behavior. You know very well that, for example. in the UK, where there is a very permissive sexual education, where we have been dealing from an early age with empathizing sexual education, sexuality, with the availability of pills not early resistance, only those to kill early conceived children, there the so-called number. pregnancy of the unwanted is the highest, the number of pregnancies among teenagers - exactly where sexual education is rapidly introduced. Because the recipe for this is not any sexual instruction that you propose, it's traditional moral science, talking about abstinence, talking about cleanliness for young people, saying that you should be decent, not empathizing from an early age with sex. [[You're looking over there, mostly so-called. He's decent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u277	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u278	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! This project assumes that inhuman and anti-civilization, barbaric standards, which unfortunately... [[Will Mr. Zbonikowski speak? Are you ashamed?]] ...have reigned in many countries of the West - thanks to this, among others. Today, this West is experiencing its civilizational end - it should be introduced in Poland. I therefore ask the High Sejm to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u279	Mr Jan Klawiter, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood be rejected at first reading, print No 2060. The project is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I would ask you not to confuse the Church, religion, hierarchy or believers in this room. This science clearly states that human life begins at conception. [[Applause]] And that's what you're talking about, scientific statements. [[And the name of the scientist?]] As a result, the tribunal... [[Voice from the room: Shut up!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u281	Madam, once again, you are bothering me. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Member, I warn you. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u282	I'll say one more thing. The doctor... [[But I don't want him to lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u283	But don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u284	...one of the doctors, who is very, so to speak, the leading abortion in Poland, also said clearly that human life begins from the moment of conception. And that's the obvious thing. [[But it's not for me.]] [[Voice from the room: Read more.]] In his judgment of 28 May 1997, chaired by Professor Andrzej Zoll, the Constitutional Tribunal stressed that prenatal life is one of the fundamental constitutional values. The Court has made it clear that the legal protection of life from conception at every stage of its development is the basis of a democratic rule of law. The Constitutional Tribunal also rejected the possibility to differentiate the values of life at different stages. The Court's words that the ordinary law cannot lead to a certain censorship and suspension of the constitutional rules in force cannot be ignored. Ladies and gentlemen, every man's freedom ends where the freedom of another man begins. This is an obvious matter. I therefore request that the project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u285	32 people have joined the questions, ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[One and a half.]] She is the first to ask the question of Anna Elizabeth Sobeck, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u286	One and a half, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u287	One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u288	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project violates constitutional guarantees of human dignity and protection of life, ignores a clear statement The Constitutional Tribunal, who noted that since its inception human life has become a constitutionally protected value. This also applies to the prenatal phase. This is the caselaw of 28 May 1997. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also continues to mention this. It simply commands that the child's life be protected from birth and after birth. And there's an important official who's supposed to protect his life. This is the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. The Ombudsman has a duty to protect life from conception. Why, then, is the Ombudsman not present today during this debate? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do the authors of the project know that the conceived...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u289	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u290	Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u291	Thank you very much, Member. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u292	Thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u293	Ms Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u294	I'd like to ask the applicants. I've been searching for information that tells me what sex education is according to the PiS. And I'd like to ask if education according to the PiS is supposed to be a concept of sex only in marriage. Is education according to the PiS supposed to be contraception, that early-poron measures are hedonism, sex addiction, treachery and coldness? I'd like to ask if PiS education says condoms cause breast cancer. I would like to ask if education according to the PiS is that a divorced or concubined teacher can have a negative impact on the attitudes of the students. I would like to ask if it is true that 1/3 of women in Poland do not use contraception at all, and only about 20% use modern hormonal contraception, and only a few percent of the intrauterine cartridge. And I'd like to ask you what the birth control refund looks like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u295	Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask whether the applicant knows that the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. - it is a matter of signature K12/14 - it has ruled that freedom of conscience, including this element of conscience opposition, must be respected regardless of whether or not there are laws confirming it. Why, then, does the applicant propose in the draft legislation drastically restricting the conscience clause of doctors, which, in connection with the consistent judicial line of the Constitutional Tribunal, cannot be applied? The clause of conscience in accordance with the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal is a human right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u297	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my brief speech, I spoke earlier about knowledge. I'll say it again. Knowledge doesn't hurt, he'll send Winnicki. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I can see she's abandoned you. All those countries who voted for the project, let us save women and who had to listen to Mr Winnicki's heresy, I am very sorry. On the other hand, my question about the project, let's save women, is this. I would like you, if you can, to present statistics on the abortion underground. Ladies and gentlemen, whether this project passes or passes, whether you put it in the basket or put it in the basket... [[We're gonna blow it up.]] ...Dear countries in Poland abortions are held today and will take place tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and every day. And it's really up to us whether these abortions take place under civilized conditions or not. [[Well, why don't you tell her not to.]] The state, throwing this project in the trash, will make the abortion underground even bigger. I'll repeat my question. I ask for specific figures to make the Members of Law and Justice aware of Mr Winnicki... [[Something amazing.]] ...what are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u299	Mrs Halina Szydłoko, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My question to the applicant. Why the idea of proposing rules that are contrary to the Polish constitutional order? I'm talking about art. 38 constitutions that ensure the right to life of every human being, including in the prenatal phase. It takes a lot of hypocrisy to name this project: women's rights, while it is forbidden to inform women of the medical risks associated with abortion, both physical and mental. Why do applicants want to brand doctors? Why do they want doctors to act against their own beliefs and principles and, above all, against the basic principle: first of all, do not harm? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've heard a lot about women's rights. What about children's rights? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u301	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Mr President, do you want to correct your statement? [[Mrs. Scheuring-Wielgus.]] No, because we're gonna have an unnecessary discussion. [[Voice from the Chamber: But you did not mention the name of Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no correction.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u302	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to express my appreciation for all the women who, not only in the big cities, but also in the smallest corners, have come out boldly, certain of what they feel and what they want, and said: enough to decide about us without us, and found themselves in this place, in this room, after gathering thousands of signatures under this project. Many of us stand and stand with you in one line, thinking about the necessary sexual education, free access to contraception or violence against women and girls. But at the same time I would like to ask for your understanding for e.g. My belief in the need to maintain an abortion compromise, which I don't think is called cynical today. Thank you for your attitude, the titanium work you have done, please, let us agree to work together to develop good solutions and cultivate our cooperation, even with some solutions, because there is still a lot of work for women before all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u303	Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal ruled at the time that human health, including the conceived child, has undoubtedly the value of constitutionally protected value. This is a case about a K 26/96 signature. From this point of view, any behaviour directed towards human health violations must be regarded as detrimental to the legal good. Therefore, why does the applicant want to repeal the Article. 157a Penal Code, the only provision of the Penal Code protecting the health of children at the prenatal stage of their development? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u305	Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the Act, you pay attention to the lack of reliable education on human sexual life in schools, the lack of guidance points in the field of sexual education, which results in unplanned pregnancies or sexually transmitted infections. For many teenagers, unplanned pregnancy is a tragedy of life. This applies especially to young women from poorer families living in rural areas, who are subjected, let us remember, to great social pressure. After all, we know the relations of many women just from rural areas, which indicate that sexual education is simply fiction there. We see the great fear of education from both Members of PiS and Kukiz15, so I ask the applicant to clarify these articles in response, these points concerning sexual education, because fear of unknown state paralyzes. I hope that we will finally get a good level of education that meets sexual needs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please clarify the points. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u307	Mrs Teresa Wargock, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! That's the voice from the gym. Please do not refer in this way to people living in the countryside. [[Applause]] We have the same access to education, the same access to the media. There is really no reason to stigmatize people living in rural areas. Speaking of entry and no time, Marshal. If you don't mind, I have a question for the applicants that I would like to get a written reply to because I have to leave the Seym. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 You describe in very detail the time during which pregnancy can be carried out. On request, until 12 weeks... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: No pregnancy...]] Abortion. Excuse me. Don't take my time. ...if there is severe and irreversible damage to the foetus - up to week 24, and if the foetus does not have a chance of surviving - until the last day, to terminate the pregnancy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the case of rape, until 16 weeks, 18 weeks. What makes you so different?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u309	Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u310	I'll add one more thing. I suggest that the committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u311	Madame, you've run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u312	...take the name let's save the girls. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few words about science and theology. It's very interesting how you get your knowledge. Perhaps a few books about the history of theology, the history of the Church are enough. Did you know that St. Augustine accepted abortion until day 40? [[Please.]] Why? Because he thought it wasn't until the 40th day that the soul went into the embryo. [[But St. Tadeusz doesn't think so.]] This was confirmed by the Council of Nice II, recognizing that in the male fetus the soul appears only on the 80th day after conception. And who decided that abortion is forbidden at all times? Not God, not the Bible. Pope Pius IX did this. Do you know when? In 1869, a year before the adoption of the dogma about the infallibility of the Pope. Your views are based on the so-called Science has nothing to do with science. They are your beliefs, but do not impose your beliefs on others. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's not a religious issue, you should know that. You can read that in books, too. You just have to read it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u314	Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u315	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Does the applicant know that the Constitutional Tribunal ruled in 1997 in the case of sign. K 26/96 that the democratic rule of law as a prime value puts man and his best interests at heart? Such a good is the life which in a democratic state of law must remain under constitutional protection at every stage of its development. Therefore I ask: Why do the authors of the project want to dismantle the state of law in Poland? A democratic rule of law is the same as a ban on abortion. This is the Constitutional Court. Why are you questioning this? [[Applause]] I demand that this project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u316	Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The freedom of choice proposed by this regulation is that this right will not need to be exercised. It's just a possibility. The law that is now in force gives us slavery. What we're offered is that we have to run underground or abroad, and each of us has the right to make a decision on our own, either with a partner or with a family. The fact that we're making this decision doesn't mean we have to be ashamed. You're going to deny us our independence, put us in the shadows, underground, force us to leave. You want to pretend that the ban on abortion will make abortion cease to exist. Is it really so that the ban on abortion does not exist? The state tells us to be ashamed, hide, despise each other, but abortion accompanies women almost forever, is and will be part of our lives, your friends, your mothers, sisters and partners. [[Don't insult my mom.]] The time for such a decision to terminate pregnancy sometimes comes for every woman. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not make us feel ashamed that we have the right to make such a decision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u318	Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u319	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Under the citizens' bill, the abortion stopped 830 thousand. Poles. The Committee "Save Women 2017" has gathered a little over 200,000 under its project. signatures. This can be easily established on the basis of data provided by the Sejm Office. However, on the Committee's website there is information about the meeting - attention - about 0.5 million signatures. I have a question: Do the authors of the project believe that Poles should be lied to if they have gained such small support for their initiative? [[Applause]] [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Why the Marshal rejected 250,000.?]] All I'm going to add is that the D.A.'s office has already been informed about the case of false information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u320	Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to one very important element of this project, namely knowledge and sexual education. The title itself contains the words "conscious parenthood." For it to be conscious, it must be knowledge first, and this knowledge of our young people and young generations is extremely lacking. Unfortunately, the Internet, media and advertising are not enough to make an opinion on sexual behavior, prevention and... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: That's what parents are for.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u322	Member, please sit down and don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u323	But in order for parents to educate, they also need to have this knowledge, and unfortunately the younger parents do not have that knowledge. [[Game in the O.R.]] Yes, my fellow Member. So I have a specific question... [[You're still in complexes.]] ...to the new Minister of Health. I'd like to meet...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u324	Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u325	May I speak, Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u326	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u327	I would like to know the position on this issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the new Minister of Health, as well as about health education, of course, and I appeal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u328	The question is asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u329	...about the withdrawal of ads with kissing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...because it's embarrassing. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u330	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The situation surrounding this draft submitted by the committee You know very well that every day the collection of signatures under this project was systematically hindered, that women who collected signatures were often attacked by religious fanatics on the streets and prevented them from collecting signatures in a way... without incidents. On the other hand, the key issue, if we are talking about abortion today - the fact that you are going to pretend that abortion in Poland does not exist, does not mean that abortions will be less, on the contrary, means that they will take place in more difficult conditions, that women who cannot afford an abortion underground or leave the country will order early-poron pills of unknown origin, often produced in China, with unknown ingredients on the Internet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you're condemning women to today...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u332	Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u333	...pretending that Poland is not about abortion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u334	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Me with such an inquiry to applicants: Why does the applicant want to allow minors to sterilize, vasectomy and other impregnating treatments available to children also against the will of parents? The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, to which you have often been here, in this Chamber, recently appointed, entrusts care for the welfare of the child to parents, also calls them to take care of the child, makes them a guarantee of his safety and their decisions give him education. The project presented by the applicants - and supported, as we have just heard, by the politicians of the Civic and Modern Platform - these constitutional principles, the ladies and gentlemen, are breaking. That is why I call for the project to be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u336	Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wouldn't want us to argue about the number of signatures under the proposals, because recently we had almost a million signatures under the educational referendum - it went to the trash. For 25 years there has been a law, a very difficult law, one of the most difficult in Poland and in the world, but it has nevertheless met with great understanding and has arranged many things. The project that is being processed today also contains records that we need to talk about. These are education records, these are records of access to contraception. We are in the last place in Europe when it comes to the availability of modern methods of contraception. We are the last country, or actually one of four countries, together with Russia, with Hungary and Albania, in which the pills after the day must be written by prescription doctors. We're a country that doesn't educate young people. And because of that, we have a very large amount of unwanted pregnancies, we have an abortion underground. Records that do not respect the needs of women will lead to growth [[♪ The bell ♪]] abortion underground, women's departures, misfortune, bleeding and death. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u338	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 'Save Women' project contains a lot of important provisions on sexual education regarding informed parenting. And the state, according to the statements you have made here, you want to throw this project right into the basket, not even discuss it, not direct it to the committee, referring to the fact that you are a civilization of life. No, ladies and gentlemen, you are a civilisation of hypocrisy. You know perfectly well... [[Applause]] [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...you know perfectly well that abortions in Poland are and will be, even if you tighten up abortion law. [[Murders too, so what?]] [[And you want to deal in guns, so what?]] You know that very well. You know perfectly well that young women, if they can afford it, will be going to the West, buying pills online that could hurt them. You don't even want to talk about how you can civilize this situation, how you can lead to a situation to help them. [[This is civilization?]] You know perfectly well that abortions will be carried out in Poland. Just an oligarch from Torunia told you to vote and you guys wash your hands. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] You don't want to take responsibility for this. That's the truth. [[Get off that podium.]] You're hypocrites. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u340	Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u341	Mr. Marshal... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u342	Mr President, please return to your seat. Please return to your seat at the moment. Mr President, I will be forced to remove you from the room. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please return to your seat. Where do you think you're going? [[Don't growl at me.]] Do you have a seat? Back to your seat. You're welcome, sir. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Can't you stand there? Since when?]] No, you can't. [[Voice from the room: Where is such a record in the rules?]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But I can stand here.]] Sit in your seat and don't yell. [[Voice from the hall: How do you behave, marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u343	Everyone's got a sign where to sit, right? Sure. [[Voice from the hall: Kaczyński where is he sitting?]] [[Where's your sign? Go to your seat.]] I'm here right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u344	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Do applicants know they're breaking the constitution with this project? The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that life, including prenatal life, is one of the fundamental constitutional values of the Constitution. The right to life is not only a matter of worldview, it is not only a religious law, but it is a human right, the most fundamental right. The measure of civilization and the universal, timeless measure, covering all cultures, is the attitude towards life. Civilization, which rejects the helpless, deserves to be called barbaric, even though it has great economic, technical and artistic achievements. And we're not gonna let that happen. Please reject the bill. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u346	Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u347	Thank you very much, Marshal. First, I'm going to refer to your behavior. This is outrageous behavior. [[Applause]] It is simply unacceptable in the Polish Parliament for the Marshal of the Sejm to behave in this way towards parliamentarians. And now to the point, ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] This is the political culture of your group. [[Voice from the room: In your performance.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're gonna be discussing today, discussing two draft laws. Mrs. Basiu, Mrs. Barbara, thank you so much for being in the Seym. It is very important for Polish women, Polish families in fact, that sexual education in Poland is at a normal, normal level. It is very important that the Pole and the Polish woman can decide their own life. There can be no situation, as in the project that will be presented in a moment by the person who stands behind the door, that it will impose itself on how Poles and Poles should behave... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u348	Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u349	There cannot be such a situation that you will enter Polish families with shoes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u350	Sir, please leave...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u351	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. What do the statistics on the number of abortions carried out on 1 000 look like? residents in countries where there is good sexual education? And is it true that there are many fewer? And yet it is all of us, and of you, and of us, that we want these abortions to be as little as possible. [[That's amazing.]] Question for you. What happened to the PiS who promised to listen to people that he would support social projects? You criticized the previous government for signing, and you're doing exactly the same thing today: you're not listening. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 830 thousand.]] [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: 500,000.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u352	Mr Piotr Uściński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have before me your bill, he should not be prosecuted in this House at all. I will vote against it. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Civic.]] I'm looking at the committee president. It is incompatible with the constitution in many places and should not really be proceded in this House. The main objective of this project is to extend the admissibility of abortion. You want every child up to 12 weeks pregnant to be killed. No guilt, no judgment, no reason. Ladies and gentlemen! Abortion is killing, not healing. That's why I have a question about why you're calling abortion a medical emergency in this bill. This is ridiculous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u354	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One of the members of the PiS spoke about support, about the number of signatures collected under this project. Therefore, I have a question to the right of the room, does he know that today the support for the liberalisation of abortion is about 40%... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...of which 26% The PiS electorate supports the liberalisation of abortion. Do you guys even know that, talking about it and supporting the sovereign? That's one thing. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Don't manipulate me.]] Secondly, I wanted to reject these arguments concerning the main thesis of speeches, talking about murder, various outrageous words. I would like you to look at this project - I am addressing the right side of the room - really substantively and to consider whether it is really worthwhile to work on the fact that in a situation where the fetus is damaged, which prevents it from living on its own, this project is put into practice. Don't you think women should have the right to emergency contraception? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You're gonna tell everyone who's disabled.]] Don't you think everyone has the right to have... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u356	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern. Madam, you have already finished your speech. Step out of the podium, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are all aware that the social role of a woman in Poland is determined by the Church and according to the teaching of the Church women are marginalized and deprived of their public rights in fact. I would like to address you with such reflection. Do Catholics in Poland abort or not? [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Most!]] [[Voice from the room: Why this statistics?]] That is the question that you must answer, because it is extremely important when you raise your voices... [[Every criminal must be punished, no matter what he says.]] ... expressing acceptance or rejection of this project. The abortion compromise, which is in force in Poland, is actually a disgrace to the democratic state. Today we should change that. Conscious women need it, they do it, and we have the right and the duty to give it to them. In Poland, as we all know, women's rights are being violated, so let's think about how to give up on this, how to give women the right to decide about their own body. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u358	Mr Jerzy Małecki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 6th project allows the pregnancy to be discontinued without restrictions if there is a suspicion that the unborn child's illness or disability prevents him from living alone. Will it be possible to kill these sick children during childbirth and immediately after birth, when the project talks about stopping without restrictions? Is this recipe supposed to be used to legally kill severely ill babies... [[That's not true.]] ...which, contrary to prenatal diagnosis, live on their own? I call on the High House to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u360	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the committee that introduced this project into the Sejm. I also signed up for this project, although it was not easy to land, on ultra-conservative land, on the ground shackled in worldview shackles. I ask the applicants: Is the sexuality of a woman on the piss bench different from the sexuality of a woman on the modern bench? [[What kind of question is that? Every man is individual.]] Is the right to upbringing, the right to education, the right to decide about your own body different when it comes to women from the PiS and women from the Civic Platform? Is there any difference at all between the fundamental right to determine ourselves according to political divisions... Doesn't it exist? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u362	Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill presented should be called "Destruction of Polish Women" and Mrs.Nowacka presented a lack of respect for women in the entire explanatory memorandum. You've forgotten your dignity at all. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Man's life begins at conception, it's scientific, medical, and indisputable. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Who said that?]] The acceptance of this fact should lead to unconditional respect for the life of every human being, regardless of the world view. If a person's life begins at conception, then an interruption of this life, no matter how, how, at what time, it will always be a homicide. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr Stasiński, I will repeat for the card. Stefan Wyszyński: When it comes to defending the unborn, there is no need to refer to the problem of faith or unbelief. All you have to do is be human. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u364	Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants: Why do you divide people and subhumans in this project, and basically prehumans? Why do you want to discriminate against particular groups of people who are disabled? Why are you introducing age discrimination? What do you think justifies the introduction of discrimination against these particular groups of people? And another question: What kind of credibility do you think is a project that the initiators use to lie about the social support given to this project? The applicants said that half a million signatures were collected, and in fact this is a lie, because there were only 200,000 of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Liars.]] I call for this project to be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u366	Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice. [[And you, by any chance, don't want to hand out weapons to the Poles? Does the gun save lives or...]] Member, please don't shout. [[Weapons.]] [[...by killing, do you know that?]] [[Voice from the room: Overactive.]] Mrs... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Man's right to life is an inalienable right, the greatest right. It's a gift. A gift from the Creator, for whom everyone should thank, regardless of whether life is at the stage of embryo, embryo, adultity or finally old age. I have a question for applicants who beautifully call their project "Let's save women," how they intend to save women injured by post-abortion syndrome, which for years suffer physically and mentally. [[Applause]] I have another question: Why Art. 13 of the draft is not in conformity with Article. 53 Constitution restricting doctor's freedom of conscience? Freedom of conscience is another very important human law. Finally, I wanted to quote just one thing here, because time is limited, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from St. John Paul, whom we all invoke.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u368	Madame, you've run out of time. Mrs Anna Cicholska...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u369	A nation that kills its own children... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u370	...law and justice club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u371	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! As a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I can assure you that the curriculum for general education in schools takes sufficient account of the objectives of education and content concerning, inter alia, education. building anatomical man, tolerance, education, equality, human sexuality, protection against violence, methods and means of preventing pregnancy and ways of protecting against sexually transmitted diseases. On the basis of the curriculum, the teaching content is adapted to the age and perceptive possibilities of pupils. I have a question for the Minister: Is wide availability of contraceptives in line with the Patient Rights Act? Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u372	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A nation that kills its own children is a nation without a future. It seemed that when, just over a year ago, the Sejm decidedly rejected the possibility of further proceding a bill that practically opened the door wide to the killing of unborn children, such a proposal, at least during this parliamentary term, would no longer appear. And today's barbarians, like barbarians from many other countries, bring this project. This project has to go to the trash in an express way. And the title of the project - about women's rights and conscious parenthood - is a fraud and insult to the vast majority of Polish women who would do anything for the conceived life carried under the heart. As a Member, I have been obliged to take part in many meetings in order to protect the unborn life as much as possible. This is what Polish women expect, and that is why I am speaking to the liberalist project firmly. When finally - here I turn to the applicants [[♪ The bell ♪]] - the conceived life will stop treating...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u375	...as a meaningless thing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u376	Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Basiu! Mrs. Asiu! Mrs. Monica! [[She's not your friend.]] You haven't said anything new. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: We are not on you.]] Since the last time you guys were here and we talked about it, you haven't said anything new. Same hypocrisy, same hypocrisy, same ignorance. Ladies and gentlemen, one question must therefore be asked. [[Where's the diaper?]] Mrs. Basiu, stand here and tell me about it... [[But, sir, culture.]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Mrs Barbara for you!]] ...that you're not a murderer, not an abortion. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, please reprimand the envoy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you said knowledge doesn't hurt. Edward Stachura in his poem said something like this: I am whole made of wounds. I urge you to start treating your educational wounds. And as for the liberal messiah of Bydgoszcz, who here referred to all questions concerning the statements of the Popes and the documents of the Church, I would very much like to wish that, even though this is not a religious matter, you could rely on the church documents already in force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A little serious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u378	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u379	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of Minister of Health regarding the draft law on women's rights and informed motherhood. Ladies and gentlemen! The issues... [[Which one?]] [[Voice from the room: Present. There's one.]] It is my honor to present the position of Minister, the current Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill raises many legal and substantive doubts. Let me discuss the most important ones, which are very important and need to be clarified. First of all, in the article. 2 point 1 of the project, the project designer talks about reproductive rights. The designer considered them human rights. It should be noted that human rights are defined in detail in international law, by means of binding agreements also by the Republic of Poland, and that reproductive rights are not clearly identified in the catalogue of these rights. Moreover, the designer identified the scope of reproductive rights as also the right to terminate pregnancy. This is contrary to binding international documents, as no act of international law imposes an obligation on you to ensure universal access to abortion. Subsequently, Article 2 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Point 5 of the project defines abortion as a health benefit within the meaning of the Public Health Services Act. I would like to point out here that there is a great deal of doubt as to whether this benefit or whether abortion without any indication can be defined as a health benefit. Let me remind you that health care is an action for prevention, preservation, rescue, recovery or improvement of health and other medical activities resulting from the treatment process and separate provisions. Discontinuation of pregnancy without any indication does not fall within the definition of health care and therefore cannot be financed by public funding. The draft law does not provide for the financing of these benefits. In the draft law in the article. 2 prenatal studies were mentioned to be carried out at the request of a woman. I would like to stress that prenatal benefits are both invasive and non-invasive benefits. And here a woman would decide whether or not to be a doctor who has the right to decide whether or not such examination is necessary. It should be taken into account that invasive studies may harm the health of the child. Unjustified execution of such dangers can give birth. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The project designer proposes to ensure full availability of methods and measures for informed procreation regardless of the patient's ability to act. And this regulation raises many questions of a formal legal nature, is in conflict with the Family and Care Code Act, which defines that a child until the age of 18 remains under parental authority. On the other hand, the Civil Code states that care is completely established for an incapacitated person unless he remains under parental authority. It should therefore be borne in mind that persons under the age of 13 or incapacitated have no legal capacity and are not able to direct their conduct and make informed decisions. Such persons are unable to assess the harmful effects of these medicines or this treatment on their current and future health. The proposed provision of the Article also raises reservations. Paragraph 7 2 projects which require local authorities to implement, develop, implement and finance preventive programmes. Let me stress: duty. The District Government Act talks about the approach to preventive programmes as optional, which means that local governments have the right to decide what programs they want to implement. It is not without significance that, in the light of the legislation currently in force, any preventive programme must be assessed by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, which assesses its validity. And how the local government is supposed to proceed in the situation of a negative assessment of the programme, the project does not follow. Also in the article. 7 The projector requires self-governments to ensure access to pregnancy prevention methods and measures. In the explanatory memorandum, we did not read how the local government would implement this. The article also raises doubts. 8 a project proposing a complete amendment of the existing rules on the conditions for the admissibility of abortion, with a view to its full availability without specific medical indications up to 12 weeks. I would like to stress here that the Constitutional Tribunal has assessed a similar provision which was in force in the 1993 Act and, in the case at hand, expressed doubts about the breach of the principle of proportionality of constitutional values in the proposed decision and the conflict of values. There is also a lot of doubt about articles on the possibility of providing benefits to people under the age of 13. These regulations are clearly contrary to the Patient Rights Act, which otherwise defines the issue of underage benefits, as well as the Act on the profession of doctor and dentist. So this is where the collision occurs, and it's not quite clear which rule would be applied in this case. The prohibition also raises the question of Article. 11, which introduces the obligation to make public, as has already been mentioned, by the National Health Fund lists of doctors who enjoy the right to refuse to perform abortions pursuant to Article. 39. Here's a collision with the art. 39 Act on Doctor and Dentist Competitions. The regulation in Article is also questionable. 12, which concerns the prohibition to place content and organise assemblies contrary to the proposed law at a distance of less than 100 m from medicinal products, in particular hospitals. The provision in the draft version introduces an additional condition, not included in the Assembly Law, which unduly restricts the freedom of expression of objection. The Act does not fully define this, does not define the specialty of a doctor who would perform abortion surgery. The Act mentions that these treatments are performed by a doctor, the specialty of this person is not defined. There is also a record that says that abortion can be performed under the supervision of a doctor and there is also no defined specialization of this doctor, i.e. suppose that e.g. an allergologist can perform such a procedure. Many in this law are inaccuracies and collisions with current laws. Therefore, the Minister of Health is negative about the citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood. At the same time, I would like to refer to a few questions that have been asked by you, at the outset, to Mrs Nowacka's comments on the reports that are being made, on the implementation of the law on family planning, the protection of the human fetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion. You mentioned that the last report was in 2014. That is not true. You are also using the data contained in the 2016 report. As regards the issue of birth care standards, once again I would like to correct - and, Mrs Schmidt, I would like to explain this to you, perhaps in the end it will no longer be duplicated what is false - that the medical standards of birth care continue to apply and there is no change here, they are in force until the end of 2018. [[Voice from the room: And then?]] Until the end of 2018, i.e. still in force. The Minister of Health set up a team last year to develop organisational standards for perinatal care. He set up a team to which representatives of scientific communities, including social organisations, were invited. This team operates and will end its work by the end of the first quarter, and the new standards of organisational care will be presented to the Health Minister. Mrs Malecka-Libera asked for the position of Minister of Health on education. I would like to assure you that the current Minister of Health attaches great importance to prevention, health promotion and education. I hope that soon he will have the opportunity to personally convince you of this. In contrast, educational activities are undertaken in accordance with the various programmes that are implemented under the National Health Programme. Back to the questions about sexual education education programmes - she asked, she informed about education in this area - I would like to stress, quoting the Minister of National Education's position, that the general education programme basis takes into account the objectives of education and content of teaching covering the issues contained in the article. 6 of the proposed bill. These include: Human anatomy, tolerance, education, equality, human sexuality and reproductive rights, protection against violence, methods and measures to prevent pregnancy, ways of protecting against sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV and AIDS. It should be noted that, due to the obligation to meet the condition necessary to adapt the content of teaching to the age and perceptual capacity of pupils in the programme basis, these issues are taken into account in terms of pedagogical and teaching standards at different educational stages, so that these educational activities are implemented. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the Minister of Health is negative about the draft submitted. [[Applause]] [[The new minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u380	Thank you, Minister. Ms Barbara Nowacka, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It didn't work. I asked you guys to calm down a little bit, to get into the meth, to think about it. [[Voice from the room: Something similar.]] You had time to read the bill, and most of you either didn't read it... [[We had time and we read it.]] ...or cardinally and intentionally she didn't want to understand it. I have also asked you, Members of the Right, for a cultural debate. Culture isn't screaming, culture isn't insulting someone, shouting isn't, and it's not manipulation. Try harder. I, Barbara Nowacka, can be insulted, not impressed by it, but insulting me, insulting citizens and citizens of the Republic who pay to listen sometimes. If you don't want to hear it, you're making a mistake. We show you that by showing contempt today, and also through mockery, mockery, your screaming, you prove that you simply have respect for the citizen and citizens of the Republic, including those who sometimes vote for you, including those who voted for you, but who are in favour of changing the law. I am really sad that the right-wing Members are talking about a project that they do not know completely, referring to a constitution that - I ignore that you are breaking - you do not know it again. You're referring to laws that don't exist, or judgments that have arisen in relation to a completely different legal order. You don't want to understand what we're talking about today. We're talking about lawmaking. We're talking about the right to freedom of choice. We're talking about a woman's right to dignity. We're talking about sexual education, which, contrary to what you think, no matter what committee you're on, isn't. Maybe sometimes it's worth not being a vice-president or president on the committee, and just being a parent or meeting people who have children in schools, and finding out how little knowledge there is and how much ideology there is. By the way, I would like to thank those Members who took some time to read the bill and took the floor calmly and substantively. [[And they didn't scream at all.]] And you won't be able to control yourself. In particular, I would like to thank those Members who have announced further work on the project, I am talking to Members and Members of the Modern Platform, the Civic Platform and those circles, groups who will decide to talk - also in committees - about the rights, freedoms of citizens, women's rights and freedoms and about who you are - whether the state is for bishops, clergy and fanatics, whether the state is for 80% of society, [[Applause]] That doesn't want fanaticism and clericization. You're referring to an article. 38, I will read it to you because you may not know it: the Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life. As prominent constitutionalists, you know that it does not refer directly to the protection of life from conception, it is your invention. There's no such thing as that. [[Judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal.]] You're just manipulating the state. Show me exactly what kind of recipe you're talking about, where we're breaking the constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal, which you are so eager to invoke, in 1997 referred to a small constitution, please state, which should not interest you at all, and referred to the conditions of social justice, to another legal order. The rules then reported spoke of women's access to abortion for reasons of social justice and this condition, only this: social justice, has been challenged. That project contained exactly the right to abortion for social reasons and this was challenged. So learn and do not allow yourselves insulting remarks about citizens and citizens, because this is not right. [[Don't insult us.]] [[Mr. Marshal, would you please ask your friend not to shout?]] I'd really like you guys to come along sometime... because you're living off my taxes. You live off my taxes. I don't live off your taxes. I remind you that I am not living on your taxes - you are living on mine. I would really ask you to listen sometimes. You'll scream another time. You'll have a chance in a minute, really, but now just listen. Sometimes it's worth it, because sometimes you can learn something new, not just what you have to say all the time. [[Applause]] A clause of conscience. Because freedom of conscience does not mean a clause of conscience. The clause of conscience is an exception to freedom, because it gives the doctor the right to decide in a very narrow dimension with a certain limitation. That's the limitation of his freedom to decide. He's just an exception. The clause of conscience we're talking about... You are referring again to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Please read what this sentence is about. This sentence merely says that the doctor is not obliged to identify another doctor. That's all. So there's got to be legislation. When a doctor or doctor says, "I refuse the procedure," he doesn't have to point someone else out. Therefore, in our proposal we propose regulations that do not violate the clause of conscience, but, on the contrary, allow the doctor to have his clause, have his freedom, and the patient, the patient, to obtain information. Does it hurt so much to inform you? Do you really think it's wrong for a patient to go into her office and find out if she's going to a doctor who thinks he needs a conscience clause or not? Who's really afraid of that? A doctor who should be proud of his faith and his clause must hide it? He doesn't have to. Why don't you want to legitimize a woman's right to know who she's going to? Why don't you want to understand what the Constitutional Court judgments are about? [[Applause]] Maybe because it wasn't your tribunal at the time. Mrs Zielińska spoke very much about prenatal research in her speech. I'm glad you appreciate them so deeply. But are you aware that, in today's existing legal order, these prenatal studies are increasingly restricted access to prenatal research? [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't. It's a lie.]] Moreover, in a moment's time, the prohibition of abortion in this room for embryopathological reasons will lead to doctors not wanting to prescribe these tests being afraid. They're already scared, women are getting less and less focused on this research. So you don't want to, you just don't want to give access to what's... [[Oh, come on.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's a lie.]] Mr. Marshal, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u382	...to address...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u383	Mr. Marshal, I would very much ask you to pay attention, because it's very difficult to say when someone shouts. If you would be kind enough to ask me not to yell at my fellow Members...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u384	Ma'am, we're patiently listening to what you're saying here. [[That's what I'm looking forward to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u385	Because you have a duty. Mr. Marshal, I merely remind you that you have a duty to listen to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u386	Here we go, so we're listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u387	You may like it or not, but you have a duty and you also have a duty as a marshal to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u388	Don't lecture me by your grace and finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u389	I don't have to finish my speech either. [[You teach all the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u390	Then continue with your speech, continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u391	Marshal, I would like to remind you that the citizens' committee has the right to speak without a time limit if I have the will. [[Ad rem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u392	Please, I'm not restricting your time. You can talk until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u393	Because I've been given a civic mandate to do what I have to say, I'll do it. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] This is disrespect for citizens and citizens. [[Applause]] We're used to the fact that you despise us because we have different views, just a little shame that you're doing it in this room where so many important things have happened, in this room where there's a cross hanging over you, which is supposed to be so important to you. It's okay. Education. You have repeatedly asked these questions about what sexual education looks like today. Let me quote the MEN expert, how she imagines education and how it is true knowledge: contraception leads to betrayal and addiction to sex; who uses contraception reduces their own dignity; contraception leads to fornication; contraception is a manifestation of immature - 21st century, please countries - those who are in vitro infertility supporters cross love, because instead of a mother's warmth, the child encounters cold freezers - it is again the 21st century. [[More furrows.]] That's what sex education looks like today. Is that what we want to teach the kids? I don't agree to this as a Polish woman, a citizen and a mother. [[Applause]] Come on. You're talking hypocritically about how you care about women's traumas. In medicine, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as post-election syndrome. What it is is, ladies and gentlemen, a concussion. [[There it is. You're lying.]] That's what's happening. You're shrouding. The only syndromes that are are women who have to look at manipulative pickets underneath hospitals where they are false, just as they were during this protest at the Sejm today. In fact, it is about those doctors who perform legal procedures. Yeah, he's out on them today, yeah, he's out for women who've decided to have an abortion or had to do it for reasons permitted by today's law. If someone suffers from a sting, it's the women you're craving today. [[Applause]] It's just a shame. We are pleased that you have spoken so much - and it was in the Minister's last speech - about the right to demonstrate. Today is a good day to talk about it, but this is not about our project. There are railings under the Seym. We only insist on protecting our children from obscenity and lying, from disgusting images. That's all. It's not much - to protect the health and psyche of children. [[But you want to kill.]] [[Let's protect the children from conception.]] Come on. Mrs Ewa Lieder asked what the statistics on abortions look like at 1 000. women in other countries. In Western European countries, on average, there are 1 000. 18 abortions are carried out in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe for 1 000. Women - 42, in the Netherlands, where there is full sexual education and full contraception, per year for 1 000. women abortion is carried out by 8 women. These are good statistics. How does it look in Poland? In reply to Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielugus, it is estimated that in Poland, first, one in four Polish women had an abortion, every year 80 and 130 thousand. women are having an abortion in the underground using illegally acquired drugs, leaving abroad. What we have are estimates, because the data we receive from the ministry is incomplete data, because it is known that in the case of criminalization and the criminalization of abortion, the case happens in the underground. If any of you wish to have any additional answers, I would be happy to give them to you. On the other hand, I would also like to point out to you that there are also international judgments for all of this, for example concerning cases from Ireland. The UN Human Rights Committee on two issues relating to Irish women - that is EU law - stated that forcing them to travel abroad was a humiliating treatment. There's a sentence for that. The same will apply to Poland. And there are many such judgments concerning international law, especially those based on cases from Ireland. Poland shall be liable for non-compliance with the law. If you tighten the law, it will carry even more. We don't want that. We do not want for a very simple reason: because we want people to live well in Poland and that Poles and Poles love their country and have the right to feel safe and decent in Poland. Polish women have the right to security and dignity, they have the right to live in harmony with their conscience. On the other hand, the state - and also the law - has no right to restrict their freedom, it has no right to humiliate them. You don't want to understand. To be honest, it is a pity, because giving a margin of freedom, giving access to education, giving the right to contraception, you would make the Polish society better. And finally. We have heard so much in the electoral campaigns and the Law and Justice, and the Kukiz party15, which has grown up to oppose the rejection of citizens' demands that you have to listen to people. But you can't listen and you won't listen. Telling you that you're going to reject our project because you don't like it is a violation of your promises. It just shows what kind of people you are and how you respect your own word. Just me and the people who supported our project and supported it, because they're not just people who signed... According to studies 42% Poles and Poles want to liberalize the law. What you do, what you want to do, or reject the project without discussion, without thinking about the need for sexual education, the need for contraception, the need for clarification of the conscience clause, is against the interests of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u394	The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion (Print No 2146). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Kaja Urszula Godek to present the justification for the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We come to the Sejm with the biggest legislative initiative in Poland in the defence of unborn children. Over 830 thousand. signatures collected throughout Poland and among the Polish people abroad under the project "Stop abortion" cannot lie. Conscious citizens want to ban the killing of sick and suspected children here and now. At the same time, supporters of abortion on request - constantly promoted in the media - managed to collect five times less signatures. [[Applause]] Some of their advantage wanted to prevent the ban on killing children, they went out to ask Poles if they would support the murder of the unborn and suffered a miserable defeat. They tried to save themselves by making up the score, and in the media, they were talking about 0.5 million. The Seym documents showed the truth: they collected up to 200,000 at most. signatures, less than last year. The three large left-wing parties involved in the project, with huge facilities, extensive terrain structures and huge money, brought such a poor result to the Sejm. People didn't want to sign a criminal feminist bill. Their failure combined with the greatest success of the prolifers in history shows that in our country the discussion about abortion is over. Poles stand firm on the side of innocent unborn children. Citizens bring their project to the Sejm, the majority of which declare their attachment to the value of defending life, to the Sejm, which promised to listen to their voice. They come again, after years of rejecting their appeals by politicians openly supporting the killing of children, politicians who did not care about the welfare of Poland and Poles. These citizens demand that the barbarism of eugenic practices ultimately eliminate from Polish law. The record result of this year's fundraiser is the best proof of that. Tens of thousands of Poles organized and motivated went out on the streets, to their families and friends to finally collect 830 thousand. signatures. [[Churches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Don't let their sacrifice and mobilization go to waste, listen to the people's voice and do what had to be done many years ago. You don't have to explain to anybody what barbaric eugenic abortion is anymore. Polish health services dealing with pregnant women and their children are currently being forced to hunt sick children. The idea of prenatal research by its use has been completely distorted. Instead of treating and preparing parents and doctors for the adoption of the child and helping him, it makes it easier to select for extermination. The number of eugenic abortions per year is increasing. We've reached over a thousand. The development of prenatal diagnosis, instead of improving the care of conceived children and their mothers, contributes mainly to the greater effectiveness of abortional selectioners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When you accept the project, stop abortion, you will restore the proper diagnostic and therapeutic nature of prenatal tests. You're gonna make medical progress, instead of killing, it's gonna be used to save people again. Eugenic abortions are performed when children are able to feel pain because prenatal examinations are performed during the second trimester of pregnancy. In Poland late abortions are usually carried out by artificial induction of childbirth. These babies who survive this premature birth are left unattended, dying of coldness, hunger and thirst, suffocating for hours due to lack of lung education. Some of them still have the strength to squawk, others die in torment in silence. In 2014, the media reported two such cases. A girl from Wroclaw died a month after a failed abortion, in Opole, a child born of an abortion screamed loudly from the operating room to a newborn ward. There alone and abandoned after four hours died. In 2016, a similar fate met a boy in one of Warsaw's hospitals. Statistics from other countries show that this is happening to every six victims of abortion. There's nothing weird about it. Disabled kids get killed even 24 weeks pregnant. These children, who are properly cared for, would have a good chance of surviving. Today we come to the Sejm because we do not want hospitals changing into slaughterhouses. We don't want an infant to be rescued in one incubator and a newborn in the other who survived an abortion. We do not want Polish obstetricians, instead of learning to save the lives of their small patients and their mothers, to perfect themselves in killing techniques by partial birth, by dismembering the child's body or in abortion techniques using vacuum suction cups. The present law is a source of suffering not only for children but also for mothers. It's them, collated with a misdiagnosis, who begin to bear not only the burden of dealing with a new, surprising situation, but also the burden of dehumanizing their children by medical personnel, the burden of encouraging them to kill the next person. In this situation, it is easy to lose reason, and then the tragedy of abortion becomes their share. They're all alone with her for the rest of their lives. Few people can understand how much they suffer. Feminist organizations are pleased to note that we have 4 to 6 million women in Poland after abortion. Their suffering remains deaf and even cry out: Let us murder even more children. Every year hundreds of Poles, instead of experiencing care and sensitivity in hospitals, hear that their children are worthless and deserve to die. Stigmatisation is also met by pregnant women, who are found in so-called because of age or medical history. the risk group. High Seym! 830 thousand. Citizens appeal to politicians: end this barbarism. The fate of children suspected of illness or disability rests in your hands. By adopting the project, stop abortion, you will direct medicine to the right track, so that doctors and nurses will do rescue again, not take life. We often hear that the Republic of Poland is still in the Polish People's Republic in many aspects: from street names to legal institutions. Decommunization of the institutions and the names of the streets, however right, is not enough. It is time to endure the worst relic of communism, which is a cruel law that allows innocents to be killed. A first step was taken in 1993: the unlimited right to kill children was abolished and the possibility of abortion was limited to three well-known cases. After the power came to power, post-communists again allowed the killing of small Poles. Among the many changes from 1996 was the extension of the eugenic premise. The SLD-Union Labour Coalition introduced the possibility of abortion due to the suspicion of an irreversible disease in the child's life. It is absurd to deny the right to life of a mortally ill person. The current law in the current version of 1996 is the reason why euthanasia was delegated in Poland. If you can kill a deadly fetus, why not do the same with a terminally ill newborn or an elderly person? Such legal solutions already exist in Belgium, the Netherlands or Canada. If we do not want legal abortion to turn into legal euthanasia in a few years, we must act to protect all sick people, not just those born. [[Applause]] Today, citizens bring to the Sejm a draft law which assumes further decommunization of abortion law. After nearly a quarter of the age of the current rules, it is time to take another step towards protecting life. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, By adopting the project, stop abortion, you will make a really good change in our country. It is a great step towards the moral repair of the Polish society - and that is why it will be attacked by the extreme left and liberals who want to take away the right to life and destroy Poland. I'm sure their foreign sponsors will also protest, who would be happy to introduce an abortion law in our Western style. They'd be happy to shut their mouths to life's defenders. They're doing it in Canada today. There in the name of the so-called. Women's rights two women, Mary Wagner and Linda Gibbons, spent almost 18 years in prison. Their only crime was to encourage mothers in abortion clinics to give up killing their child. In France, you can go to prison for two years for running a website that shows the truth about abortion. In 2014 the Council An 85-year-old pediatrician was sentenced to a fine of 5,000. The euro for handing out children's shoes to women who entered abortion clinics. These aren't isolated cases. The legalization of abortion is always the first step towards closing the mouth of people who think otherwise. You don't have to look far. Already in Poland, the extreme left has brought to the Sejm a law that directly condemns anti-abortion protests under health care institutions. The goal of abortionists is always the same: total domination in public space, manipulation and censorship of thoughts. Although it is frightening, in Poland efforts are made to introduce left-wing totalitarianism. When a few days ago in the abortion debate we gave the voice to disabled children, and so to those who are most affected by this problem, pro-abortion media attacked children for drawing laurels for politicians. The strategy of abortionists is clear: kill disabled, and if kill fails, at least effectively silence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Don't think you can keep any status quo on abortion. Already in 1996, the Left showed that no compromises were accepted or feared by any mythical pendulum. As soon as she came to power, she took the opportunity to change the bill to her prayer. People who care about the lives of children must act exactly the same, consistently seeking to change the law, but for the better. The example of Spain, where the Zapatero government came after the inaction of the conservative government with its revolution in legislation, shows how the war of civilization of death with civilization of life is going on. It is not actions to defend life that cause left-wing activity, but on the contrary: the passivity of politicians creates the conditions for the future success of criminal ideologies. [[Applause]] Think of the future today and do not be passive in the name of a better future. High Seym! There's an 830 grand standing right here in front of you today. Poles and Poles. Two years ago, we gave you power to make our common homeland a better and more friendly country for all Poles. Do not be afraid of a noisy left-wing minority or transnational institutions full of lobbyists on salaries of abortion companies. Take the side of the sick children, their families and friends, take the side of the citizens. Save us from people who claim to be our defenders in an unauthorized way, and in fact they are our enemies. Save the women from abortion, the daughters from death, and the mothers from becoming murderers. Save us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u396	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, the protection of the human foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion. First of all, I would like to remind and emphasize that every person, including the unborn, has an inalienable right to protect life. This right is guaranteed by the article to every man. 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which is written: "Rzeczpospolita Polska provides legal protection of life for every man. The Pole also has constitutional rights before he was born. This standard obliges us, citizens, to receive proper care and respect for life from the moment of its conception. The greatest danger to peace today is abortion. If a mother is allowed to kill her own child, what can stop you and me from killing each other. These are the words of Mother Teresa of Calcutta. The aim of the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion is to restore full human rights, especially the right to life, to those who do not have the opportunity to defend their own lives. The proposed law aims to ensure that the constitutional right to the protection of life is not differentiated due to the health of the conceived child. Sick and disabled people can be happy, often independent, so why should someone decide for them to be born? The results of the studies carried out and the data of the Ministry of Health for 2016 show that 37% of the reason for the abortion is diagnosis, which states that the child can come into the world with the trisomy of the 21st chromosome, that is, Down syndrome. Down syndrome does not cross the possibility of a happy life, either in the case of a person with this condition or in the case of her parents. They discover inexhaustible sources of love and joy. The opponents of this civil draft law say that it is a dark garden, a medieval one, and that today's world medicine is moving towards the treatment of genetically conditioned diseases, and new directions of medicine are emerging. In the 21st century, it may be time to stop being barbaric, which is abortion, and to direct measures and efforts towards good diagnostics, treatment, therapy, rehabilitation. The activities carried out by the current government, especially the prepared project "For Life," are supported by various forms of family assistance, in which a child with a disease or disability is expected to enter the world. The project is for life, among others. medical and material assistance aimed at providing the child with opportunities for development and social inclusion. Diagnosed illness or disability in an expected child shall not entitle the parents of the child to an abortion act. In the absence of an opportunity for a family to accept a child who has been born sick or disabled, there are other opportunities in society for a decent reception and upbringing of a born child. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Natural human rights are at the forefront of the right to live. It is universal and inalienable, and abortion in order to subdue conceived life to the needs or desires of other people is directly opposed to this law. I am convinced that this project will find very strong support in our parliamentary club. In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the message of the above mentioned Law and Justice. citizens' draft law for further work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u398	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will strive to ensure that even cases of difficult, very difficult pregnancies, when the child is sentenced to death, severely deformed, end in childbirth, so that this child can be baptized - Jarosław Kaczyński, 12 October 2016. I wonder who you need to be, in your soul and in your heart, to consciously convict, as part of your conscious decisions, women... [[That's how you want to do it.]] ...for suffering, for tears, for pain. [[Voice from the room: We want to give a choice.]] How cruel it is to be a man to tell another man how to live his life. [[Voice from the room: You want to kill.]] How much cruelty it takes to tell a woman who carries a terminally ill child under her heart that she has to give birth because Jarosław Kaczyński has to baptize them. Who do you have to be? [[Who do you have to be to kill a child?]] You have no idea about suffering or illness. Do you want me to tell you what a fish shell is? This isn't fishing. This is one of the most severe diseases, the child dies in suffering, has sepsis, and the mother watches it, and there is no gram of rescue in the case of this disease. You're telling her to give birth because Jarosław Kaczyński wants to. Do you want me to tell you what brainless is? Do you have any idea about that? Have you ever seen a fetus with no brains? You tell your mother to give birth, to look at this child's death, to suffer only because Jarosław Kaczyński tells you to baptize. Do you know what cyclops are? Do you know that word? Cyclops is a disease in which the fetus has one eye at the site of the nose... [[There are many disabled people, they have the right to live.]] ...and his nose's gone, and he's gonna die. And you're having the baby because Jarosław Kaczyński wants to baptize. How cruel it is to be human. And to cover up your hypocrisy, this moral relativism that you show every day, you throw it to these mothers like grab $4,000. Evil, and you say, "Have a good time." Raise. We're done with you. We gave you $4,000. Evil and christened. This is your morality and dignity. In Poland it will be normal again. There will be Poland where freedom will be limited only by the freedom of another man. And there will be Poland... [[Voice from the room: And that's what we want to do.]] ...in which you will not enter our homes in your filthy shoes, our bedrooms and our delivery rooms. Poland will be like this. [[Applause]] I look into the eyes of millions of Poles and Poles. Today we have Poland in which a bunch of guys tell you how to live. [[We kill children with disabilities.]] He tells you how to give birth, who you're supposed to live with, who you're supposed to sleep with, whether you're supposed to use birth control or not. They don't know anything about life. Be strong and fight. They're really scared of you. They're afraid of Polish women and you know it. You've shown strength and determination. And when we defend such fundamental principles of humanity, when we rip off this PiS hypocrisy, we will see Poland where we will feel good. And we'll do it together. And your hypocrisy, your hypocrisy we'll expose every day. I'll look into your eyes every day and ask you if you know what cyclops are. And if you don't know, learn. Read the books. [[Applause]] Read the encyclopedia, not the encyclical, and you have to understand the encyclical to read it. At this point, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I speak, looking you in the eye: we are applying for the rejection of this project in its entirety. We will vote every time to reject projects that will condemn Polish women to suffering, tears, and deadly fetuses... [[And the others to death, right?]] ...to die for weeks. You want me to tell you about Chazan's success? [[Come on.]] About what he was doing? Do you want to hear from this podium? I know that. You don't have the strength to look at it. You recognize in your PiS hypocrisy that the values you present are moral. Morality... [[Chazan is the most popular in Warsaw among women.]] ...is in a completely different place. Morality is where you fight for the good of another man, and freedom only limits the freedom of another man. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u400	Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As in the case of the previous project at the Kukiz club15, it will be an individual matter to decide whether to vote on the contested bill. However, I would like to draw attention to one issue on the occasion, especially to those who declare to be life defenders who sit in the benches of the Members, who are also in the current government. I recall the discussion about abortion a year ago and the commitments that were then made to mothers of children with disabilities. What is our fight for the lives of those who are already born and unable to cope? The ruling party boasts of increasing budget implications, an increasingly better market situation. It would seem that this is a good time to decide on such a civilization leap for the weakest who have waited many years for help. In previous projects, the government has committed itself to preparing a package for life. Where's the package? Do we really have a calm conscience because once we give to mothers who have sick children, only 4,000. Evil? I see the Minister's gone. And I wonder how he helped mothers of disabled children, [[Applause]] Because I think he was one of the worst-ranked ministers as a minister of health. [[That sounds like a good word.]] And in view of what the protest of mothers of disabled children looked like when the Platform ruled, you should be ashamed now to talk about taking care of the disabled, [[Applause]] 'Cause then months, weeks... [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: We found a solution then.]] ...they just slept, lay on the ground, and you didn't pay any attention to them at all. But we can spend nearly PLN 1 billion on public television as a Sejm, spending several tens of millions, creating new institutions. When will we finally be able to raise the amount of this benefit for parents and carers of disabled children? What they're getting at this point is actually pennies. And almost to every parliamentary office they knock with a request. All charges are going up at this point. We're talking about rising wages, we're talking about getting better, unemployment is falling, and really, if these parents want to make money, they're gonna lose some of their benefits. And it's actually very exclusionary for them. Today's project is connected with this, because it is a question about the right to life, but also a decent life, mother and child and to ensure from conception of protection and care the weakest, but not only until birth. It is also continuing to take responsibility for our citizens, those who themselves are unable to cope. Let us focus as much money on this as possible, because now it really seems that the budgetary situation is moving towards a better one. Let's focus funds on the disabled, but let's also focus them on the development of prenatal surgery, so that Poland will become the leader in saving babies, even during the second trimester of pregnancy. If we don't take care of the weakest ones, [[Applause]] Those who don't have the right to vote can't speak here, we can't call ourselves a civilized nation. It cannot be allowed that some people's lives are assessed as less valuable and that they do not have the right to live. Everyone has the right to live. Everyone in our society is equally valuable and equally important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u402	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Anti-abortion environments are trying to tighten up the provisions of the 1993 Family Planning Act. Since they failed to completely ban abortion, they do so in sections and today they want to ban abortion due to incurable fetal defects. It is not only that you do this cynically, without considering the obvious and objective arguments, yet you lie and manipulate public opinion. You repeat as a mantra that the right to abortion in the event of a defect in the foetus is mainly used in the case of fetuses who have been diagnosed with Down's syndrome, and that is a ruthless lie. Most cases of abortion due to this condition occurred due to the findings of somatic defects of one organ or many organs such as cardiovascular, musculoskeletal and urinary disorders, brainlessness, spinal bifida, cerebral hernia, menorrhagia and menorrhagia. These terrible diseases often cause the death of a child shortly after or shortly after birth, and if this death does not come quickly, we are dealing with the vegetation and suffering of both the child and the mother. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a woman must have a choice, she must make it in her own conscience, and neither Mrs Godek nor Mr Kaczyński will decide that. Because it's not the most important thing to baptize a child, it's not the most important ideology, and it's not the most important worldview that you confess and that you want to write in law. The most important thing is the health of a woman and the freedom of a woman to choose from. [[The right to live is the most important thing.]] Another lie of justification is the reference to the financial, medical and psychological assistance of the state that children with disabilities and their families receive. We all know this help is pure fiction. And pure cynicism is to post a ban on abortion due to foetal impairment, citing state aid that de facto does not exist. Ladies and gentlemen! Just tell the Poles and Poles directly that you will ban abortion completely until it passes. But I remind you, this idea was previously rejected by both parliament and society, as shown by research and mass protests of Poles and Poles. Polish people and Poles in the vast majority reject the total ban on abortion and whether you like it or not, this is the state of things and just remember it. It can't be that any or any small community of anti-abortionists who have decided to do a political and professional career on this subject... We will not allow you to furniture the lives of Poles and Poles, because Poles and Poles do not want, I repeat, they do not want the ideas of Kai Godek. And it is our duty as legislators not to allow this law to be passed. If we don't, ladies and gentlemen, in a few months' time, there will be another project by Mrs. Kai Godek for abortion, but for another reason. This intention is clearly indicated in the name of the committee itself - to stop abortion. That's to stop in any case and at all costs. That's what you're trying to do. You Members, before you raise your hand behind this project, think about the ordinary Polish people in Polish homes. If you ban abortion, that's where people's dramas and dark business will take place, because if a woman doesn't want to have a baby, she just won't have a baby, she'll go abroad and she will. If she can't afford it, the only real beneficiary will be the abortion underground, and the pregnancy will be interrupted simply by homemade means - a famous hanger, a plumbing cleaner or by swallowing the right pills. Of course, there will be a whole host of hustlers who will cause menstruation in the cellars for a few pennies. Is that what you want? Therefore, modern is against this shameful and inhumane project at first reading. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: Ooh... shame! Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u404	Mrs Joanna Schmidt. [[Thank you.]] Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As in the previous draft law, this project also concerns a very delicate and personal sphere, moral, ethical, and therefore I would like to declare that Members of my club, the Polish People's Party, will take their own decisions in voting on this draft law. The draft law strengthens the rules on abortion from the so-called. eugenic considerations. The drafters request that the Article be repealed. Article 4a (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 point 2 of the entry which states that abortion may be carried out where prenatal or other medical examinations indicate a high likelihood of severe and irreversible impairment of the foetus or an incurable life-threatening disease. The entire abortion process resulting from this record is based on this probability of disability or illness. First, we need to consider whether we can 100% determine how far disability or illness can be addressed. Despite the enormous advances in medicine, no one is able to determine the degree of progress of this, let's call it irregularities in the emerging and only developing human body. I think we can analyze it also on the basis of surgery. The situation is very similar to that of any surgeon going into surgery. Before this procedure, all the tests necessary to perform the surgery are carried out, but the likelihood of surprises in the direction both positive and negative for the patient is very high. I'm not a doctor, my daughter's a neurosurgeon, we talk a lot. It's only after surgery that a surgeon can tell you if there's been any difficulty or whether everything was going according to assumptions, but no doctor with a 100 percent probability can yet further determine what this post-op material is. That's what needs to be re-examined. Therefore, High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply unacceptable, in my view, to establish the right to life on the basis of probability. [[Applause]] I believe that none of us, including no doctor, have the right to decide who can live and who has no right to live. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Let us ask ourselves today whether instead of looking for ways to kill, we should focus on organising help for families who may have certain difficulties in raising children with disabilities. I am convinced that this one-off benefit, which was established last year, is unfortunately not enough. I believe that in these cases regular and permanent assistance is needed in the form of both material and institutional assistance. With the latter, I must say, our country is much better, we have been working on this for many years. Children with disabilities - maybe not all of them today, but most of them - can benefit from kindergarten, various centres, schools, from the whole learning process. All I'm asking is that we don't do a revolution here and not lock these children in their homes, forcing them to teach individually. And the parents of healthy children should not defend themselves against contacting their children with disabled children. This contact has a big and good effect on healthy children, it teaches them sensitivity, understanding, helping out towards the weaker. High Seym! The attitude of society to disability is a sign of the culture of a given nation. In conclusion, I want to ask, I have to ask this rhetorical question, I feel like I have to ask them: if we kill all the children with Down syndrome, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we're gonna be a happy nation? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I suggest we talk about this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u406	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are dealing with an attempt to impose a barbaric law on Poland, an unacceptable law... [[The voice from the room: you say that?]] ... Motivated sample [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] fanaticism, darkness, non-science, motivated by blindness, hatred for people who think differently, especially for women. But it's not gonna work, it's just that Polish women are gonna throw away your PiS-owsko-katole right-wing gibberish. [[Voice from the room: What?]] And at some point, Polish women will just say no. They won't be humiliated like they've never been humiliated before. And the final result of your efforts will be that it will pass and a project similar to that of Mrs Nowack will be adopted. [[Voice from the room: Doctor!]] I thank Mr Arłukowicz very much for his beautiful words. I'm not gonna mention a series of things anymore, but I'd really like to ask you not to lie. I know it's hard for some people. How can we talk about the curability of a number of genetic diseases, the curability of spina bifida, hydrocephalus? I mean, these are tough, incurable cases. Let's skip the cliché steak. I do not expect anything from Mrs Godek or from her company, but I simply speak to society, to Poland, to people who say extraordinary nonsense, such clichés, statements of any other - objectively it can be said - it is right that everyone should live, everyone should be happy, we have no right to take lives. But we're talking about another situation: a woman has to give birth to a seriously ill, handicapped child who either dies immediately or lives for 20 years. This is a martyrdom conviction. So? And you bastards say to these women, you must bear, be martyrs? That's why you're a saint... But Goretti became a saint. But I would very much ask that PiS not teach us holiness, yes, I have one request for PiS not to teach us morality. [[What are the more disabled people than you, sir?]] Quiet, don't yell. Marshal, shut up that screaming lady. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing: no one in Poland is forced to have an abortion. After all, there are great opportunities, our venerable purples have a lot of money, a lot of resources, a lot of opportunities, they can convince, there you go. Especially one purple from Torun has great opportunities and can convince. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Over the past year, the Church has lost 1 million faithful thanks to these purples, Mr Jędraszewski, Mr Dziwisz, Mr Rydzyk. So congratulations, very congratulations. As for Rydzyk, I think he's still underrated. Poland has received several peace prizes, poetry, but it is so objective, judged, and I think that such a prize in physics is just a bell, it is a prize. And actually, Rydzyk should get a physics award... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] ...because he proved that radio waves could attract dark mass. This is a huge success. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Craziness!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing I would ask is that if someone here speaks with such a face as if they had discovered America... There one Member has already gone, who says: human life begins with conception. So what does that mean? Maybe one of the PiS wise men will say what? From the first division of zygote? From two blastomers to four? From the division, from the show, from the release of morale? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What does that mean? From haploid cells? [[Since the combination of the egg and sperm, sir.]] It's just a sign of this horrible nonsense of yours, [[Game in the O.R.]] It's about unbelievable nonsense. This is bullshit. Human life begins with conception - it doesn't mean anything. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What is St. Thomas spoke?]] The piss just jammed, yelled, yelled. Keep hitting the desks. However, the truth is that there is a major dispute about this, and there is a dispute about this, which is the conception. If anybody's saying... [[A combination of the egg and sperm.]] But what does it mean to combine an egg cell? The egg cell connects to many... [[Game in the O.R.]] You just don't know what a cell phone is, ma'am. She connects with a lot of sperm, not one. They dissolve the shell, it's the whole process, the formation of zygote, it's the whole process. I would very much ask that the piss-holes don't say anything about it. Luckily you didn't talk about naprotechnology, because there was another such nonsense, she slowly... Naprotechnology is just cheating, there's no such thing. In contrast to in vitro, there was some kind of naprotechnology. [[Of course, the treatment of infertility patients is a fraud, yes, sir.]] Fortunately - thank you to the PiS - today, PiS wasn't talking nonsense about naprotechnology. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Around the European Union, the Democrats are firmly opposed to this barbaric, vile, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Inhuman... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u408	Time's up. Mr Jan Klaviter, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizens' project presented today is undoubtedly a good project. I hope that this step this year will be made, in the year 100th anniversary of the revival of independence. The critics of the project argue that full legal protection of life would be today an event on a European scale or even on a global scale. But wasn't such an event 100 years ago the granting of voting rights to women in the First Republic? [[Applause]] It is nothing special to specialize in repeating others. We Poles should refer rather to these cases when others repeated after us, especially in such a year, the year of the 100th anniversary of the revival of independence. Previously, I was talking about scientific arguments, because that's where we should start. I do not agree with my previous speaker absolutely. I will quote here the words of Professor Lejeune, head of the Department of Genetics at the University of Descartes in Paris: Accepting for certain the fact that after fertilization a new human being is born, is no longer a matter of liking or opinion. The human nature of this being from conception to old age is not a metaphysical statement with which one can argue, but a mere experimental fact. This is a professor of genetics. Reforming the legal protection of human life is necessary. The law must not offend the obligation to protect every man's rights. Human rights are not a question of debate. It is not that if someone protests in the name of freedom of theft, the state has the right to abolish property rights. People steal, steal, and steal. That's how the abortion underground was, it is, and it will be. It doesn't mean that we can't, we shouldn't legally call things evil and good. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u410	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, of course, huge congratulations to the whole committee It's a big deal. Those close to a million signatures that have been signed are indeed a great thing and a huge testimony. Second thing. I am appealing here to the majority of the government to finally stand up and support this project, send the abortion project back to the basket. And thirdly, in response to Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, who said that if a mother wants to kill an unborn child, she will kill them... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I said nothing of the sort.]] ...this, Mrs... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I said nothing of the sort.]] ...if he wants to drown a baby, he'll drown too. That doesn't mean it's supposed to be legally carried out. [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] And that is what you said, Madam Member. [[Applause]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: corrected!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u412	Let's get to the questions. If any of you... [[Joann Scheuring-Wielgus, corrected, lied!]] Member, please subscribe to the question. If any of you would like to speak, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u413	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment takes the form of a... It's about removing the so-called writing. eugenic indication. In the world, more and more people have great hopes for the development of diagnostics and prenatal surgery. This is due to the fact that the parents are aware that the diagnosis made during the prenatal period is intended for the treatment of the child. I am very pleased that there are centres in Poland, e.g. in Bytom, Łódź, Warsaw, where surgery is performed, where the patient may be an unborn child. Doctors can cut out a huge tumor or operate on a child's spine that has not yet been born. Such treatments are also carried out in Poland - at the world level. Abroad, e.g. in the Gemelli polyclinic, between 100 and 120 treatments are carried out each year in the womb. On many Italian websites you can read the parents' testimonies, who are grateful to the staff for their help in treating their offspring. For more than 10 years there has been an active structure supporting prenatal development. About 10,000 were reported at that time. cases [[♪ The bell ♪]] Classified defects. Of the more than 300 children who seemed to be already in the terminal phase during the prenatal period, 40% were saved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u414	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u415	I'd like to thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u416	Madam President, I am so sorry, but we must follow the time and I ask everyone to follow the time. Mrs Halina Szydleko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Is it true that legal abortion can be performed under current law if a child is suspected of being born sick? Just a suspicion. Criminal law provides for a presumption of innocence, and here all it takes is suspicion. And what's the suspicion? It's the disease. Who has the right to decide whose life is worthwhile and whose life is worthless? Who has the right to decide who lives and who dies? And my question about this project: Why just now? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You ran away. Two years ago, you could have changed that. Jarosław Kaczyński needs to be asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u418	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u419	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What will be the result of this bill? Will there be less abortion? It won't. They will be carried out in an abortion underground in even greater suffering, fear, and often in life and health-threatening conditions. Why do you want to force women to be heroic, regardless of their children and their suffering, without looking at what will happen to them? A woman must have the right. This difficult decision, which will affect her entire life, must have the right to take it alone. Listening to you today, I feel like there's an abortion order today in case we detect developmental defects. That's not true. A woman has to have a choice. She has to decide for herself. Do not bring women into the role of incubators that are to give birth no matter what. Regarding fetuses with developmental defects, I would like to quote the words of one of the professors of gynaecology: I once proposed to show, because I am able, what are developmental defects and how these children look on one of the televisions. When the reporters looked at it, they said they were too drastic. Those pictures we see on the billboards, that's nothing compared to the view of developmental defects. That's what we're talking about. This pain and suffering we want to spare both these children and their mothers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u420	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The law we are discussing now does not belong to the laws where there is any room for compromise, dialogue or negotiation. You're saying, speaking here about the bill, it's time to stop being barbaric. Well, barbarism is what you want to do now - forcing women to be heroic, to be heroic, which they will often simply not be able to bear. I think that's what separates me from those who want to tighten up the abortion, that the bill we're talking about today is just precepts. The bill that we were just talking about, presented by Barbara Nowacka, the committee of "Let's save women," is the law about rights, about conscious parenting, about choice. I know that you will improve your statistics, official statistics on abortions in Poland, but this is hypocrisy, this is sweeping the problem under the carpet. You'll have clean consciences. What about the women? You will take away their dignity, their freedom of choice and their subjectivity. Question for Mrs. Godek. How is it possible that after 25 years of validity of the 1993 Act, your proposal is one article, one article. Do you really not see the need for changes in sexual education, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the birth control code? One article versus Barbara Nowacka law, a series of articles awaited by Polish women. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u422	Thank you very much. The voice is Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is such closing eyes, pretending to be moral, that you don't see a problem. Then I will ask you: Where were the applicants of this project, where were the representatives of the PiS and where were the representatives of the government on 28 September 2017 during the protest of families of people with disabilities at KPRM? None of you went out to those people who said they had nothing to live for, that they needed an increase in welfare and social security. That's not what you're doing. You're doing this to force women, to force families, parents to suffer, to make women bear children who are about to die to watch them suffer. Take care of those who live, give them protection, tell them all these lofty words about morality. Give them a way to live their lives, but don't interfere with our bodies and our decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u424	Please, Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, Mrs Rebecca Kiessling, an American born in the United States, hosted the Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture. At that time, in the state where she was born, there was a ban on abortion. It saved her life because her mother had already decided to have an abortion, decided to kill her unborn child. Luckily, the conditions of the abortion underground scared the hell out of her. She got scared and changed her mind. Today Rebecca is alive and can drive around the world and encourage legal protection of life. I have a question for Mrs. Kai Godek. Does the legal ban on abortion or the legal protection of conceived life affect the number of abortions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u426	Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Eugenic abortion is barbaric. Every man has the right to live. No one has the right to select children for better or worse, to have the right to live and not. But at this point, I would like to draw attention to the mother and woman that the opposition is fighting for, her freedom and her freedom. You must remember that, Mr. former Minister of Health, that every medical procedure is a danger to health and life. [[It's better not to heal.]] Abortion is a threat to the health and life of a woman. Maybe I'll list some of these complications. Direct: hemorrhage, uterine injury, infection and unfortunately increased risk of death. Late effects include infertility, spontaneous abortion, premature birth, the birth of a dead child and other complications of pregnancy and childbirth. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Shut up. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the gym: You're a parliamentarians, ma'am.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, please respond!]] On the other hand, the most difficult result for a woman who has had an abortion is undoubtedly mental suffering. [[Voice from the hall: I'm ashamed of myself as a woman.]] Abortion-induced psychiatric disorders are referred to as post-election syndrome. It increases the risk of suicide. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Sorry.]] In this place, at the end I will quote from the will of Mother Teresa of Calcutta: Abortion kills peace, love... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u428	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u429	I have a very elementary question for the rulers and for the Members of the PiS. Do you really, in such a crucial, even symbolic year for women's rights - let me remind you that 2018 is the Year of Women's Rights established by the High House, by the Polish Parliament - do you wish to make a religious state from Poland? Don't know why, you want to punish women in our country in a special way, denying the Polish people the right to decide about their body, motherhood and the future. If you do this, it will be an exceptional cruelty and hypocrisy on your part. But it's not too late. Therefore, I warmly ask Members from the right side of the room to reflect on the fact that they will come to their senses and that they do not do this extraordinary cruelty to the Polish people because the Polish people do not deserve it. In addition, I will remind you that the advantage of free choice is that you may not use it. So let us give Poles free choice in these very difficult and painful moments for them. Let us not rob them of their ability to decide about themselves, especially as we are in the course of the Year of Women's Rights. The PO has always been in favour of maintaining an abortion compromise. We continue to maintain this position, but at the same time we are strongly opposed to tightening up the anti-abortion bill. The rule of law in which we are said to still be should support women at every stage of their lives, and should not punish them or force them to be heroic and consecrated by law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Why do you not protect them from birth?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u430	Member Jan Dziedziczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate is a debate on a modern look at life. Of course, in the 1940s, when the Nazi invader introduced abortion in the land of the General Governor, in the 1950s, when the communist authorities of Poland also authorised abortion, we did not have such technical achievements. Today is the 21st century, and a modern man, who uses knowledge, science, knows that man is born at the moment of conception. There's no more discussion from the Middle Ages about what week. Everything is known: at conception, man is born. [[Applause]] There's no doubt about it. This is science, this is objective science. It is worth taking advantage of the achievements of science, it is worth taking advantage of the fact that we are in the 21st century and we have this knowledge. I would like to ask the applicants if, having this knowledge, using the 21st century acquis, fighting discrimination all the time... Isn't there more discrimination than the fact that at some point in her life we tell a person who's supposed to be disabled: you're a worse man, you have no rights, we can just kill you? Do you agree to this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions to this law force women to carry out pregnancy not in a disability situation, not in a situation of developmental difficulties of the foetus. We are talking about flaws that impair vital functions and sentence a child to death in suffering within a few days or even a few hours. [[Down syndrome, for example.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] For parents, for siblings it is very often a trauma for life. This also means frustration in looking at the powerlessness of the child's death. This proposed project is not really intended to protect life. He has the purpose of law enforcement of heroism: from a tiny child who will face the enormous suffering that is really the substance of his entire life, from parents who will be powerless to look at this suffering, and from siblings who, looking at this suffering, will have to mature, grow up earlier than their peers. So I ask the applicants: Who gave you the right to expect such heroism and to demand from citizens? Of course, we can admire this heroism. You can - you have instruments for this, the entire budget - support it with real help. But this heroism cannot be enforced by law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u434	Mr Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform. There is no Mrs Gądek. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ma'am! I have no doubt that this is the first step towards a complete ban on abortion. That's why I have a question for you. When will the Polish people wake up in a country that will be their great prison? That's what a country is. Maybe you were there, maybe you weren't. This country is El Salvador. Do you know the story of Maria Theresa Rivera, who is serving 40 years in prison? Not for the murder of a child, for the miscarriage. Do you know the story of a 9-year-old girl who gave birth to a C-section at 32 weeks of pregnancy and asked for crayons after the procedure to draw doctors and nurses who operated on her? Do you know the story of 18-year-old Cristina who miscarried in her own bathroom in 2005 and is serving 30 years in prison? I have a question: When will you come here to this Sejm with a bill that will prohibit abortion completely? Because I have no doubt that you already have a bill like that in your briefcase. [[Voice from the room: Soon.]] And I want to tell all the ladies what's gonna happen to you. You will be sentenced to two to eight years in prison, like El Salvador, but it is often several dozen years in prison. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] Six to 12 years for doctors. That's why I want to tell you... [[That's not on the project. Why are you making this up? There's no such thing in this project. Don't make it up.]] ...that we will not allow, us men who support women, we will not allow, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] so that the Polish women in the maternity wards lay handcuffed to their beds. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u436	Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present to you on the left such an example of family, marriage. They were trying to have a baby. Says Anna: when it turned out that I was finally pregnant, the doctor said that he was very sorry, but the baby, the fetus is at risk of severe illness. In this situation, you have the right to terminate the pregnancy. I asked what the word "termination" means. I said, "What kind of treatment is this?" And he said he wouldn't give her much treatment, but you can decide to legally remove the pregnancy. However, he added that in his view abortion would reduce both her and their child's suffering. Edwards' syndrome is a fatal genetic defect, and 90% is a genetic defect. children die in their first year of age," said the doctor. I was confused, but before I left the clinic, I knew I wanted to have a baby. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all This isn't about religion. I'm in Manifa every year. I was thinking, since 90% Children die, that's 10%. he lives longer than a year, or maybe even a few years. I've grasped every hope. Also ask Minister Jakubowska, yes, in the government of Leszek Miller, how happy she is the mother of a sick child. He says: I only appreciated the value of life when it turned out that I had a disabled child myself. Is that enough? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u438	Anna Siarkowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the project applicants very warmly for the measures they have taken to abolish abortion. Thank you very much, Mrs. Kai Godek, for being the mother of a disabled son, a son who has Down's syndrome, has the courage to fight for the right to live for children like her son. [[Applause]] I have some questions for the applicants. Please state how this scale of abortion crime is shaping in Poland today. I would also ask Members to be reminded if applicants have such information as medical procedures carried out before birth for children with disabilities. I also ask for information on the scale of social support for this project at present. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u440	Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the project applicants stop abortions! I have a question for the applicants: Do applicants believe that lying to the number of people who support pro-abortion projects... [[Numbers.]] ...about which there has already been much said here today, lying about the scale of support for social abortion in Poland, Mr President, can finally lying about the data about abortions carried out in our country serve to produce and to create an impression of universal acceptance of abortion? And second question: Can attempts to strengthen legal protection of life be deliberately presented as a threat to the avalanche growth of illegal abortions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u442	Robert Winnicki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am amazed at some of the voices that fall here, especially the Member, when you say that... [[A voice from the hall: We are astonished by yours, too.]] ...the birth of children who are disabled must mature early in these families and that it is such a trauma for them. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is looking at death.]] This is not looking at death, Mrs Nowacka, because even Barbara Nowack, in her lying speech, admitted that at least 21% of children killed in Poland as a result of abortion were children with a band...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u444	Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, this is not a discussion, this is Mr Winnicki's speech, so please do not disturb me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u445	Thank you. Even...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u446	If you want to talk, please step out of this room and have a chat with your friend. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u447	I'm asking for extra time. This is... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm asking for extra time, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u448	Member, please behave culturally, okay? [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Okay, so now you're silent, we're listening to the Member. Okay? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Question to applicants, not to me.]] You had your time. [[Voice from the room: Please follow the rules. The question is to the applicants, not to me.]] [[The voice from the hall: Kara, Mr. Marshal.]] Silence, Member. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Continue, sir. It's time to extend.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! The question to the applicants, which I must first justify. I must justify this because this question is important for this project. This justification is that the state gives eugenic arguments, i.e. that people with disabilities are disturbing someone in the Polish country. It means that people with disabilities are disturbing their parents, disturbing their siblings in order to grow. This is eugenics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Your rhetoric is eugenic rhetoric known from the Third Reich. Known for the Third Reich. [[Yes, sir.]] Unfortunately, it is not a coincidence that pro-abortion demands are linked to being an ally of Adolf Hitler and Józef Stalin in Poland. [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u450	Okay...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u451	But, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u452	Thank you, sir. I've extended you as much as the fight lasted. Thank you very much. [[Enough of this nonsense.]] Another person, Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern. Or you'll keep the minimum rules, so to speak, culture... Okay, are you leaving or not? [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I'm leaving, of course.]] Well, you're welcome to begin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u453	Don't punish me. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Kaja Godek not only uses lies, she still comes to the Sejm of the Republic and lies. I'd like you to answer the questions to tell me when, who, and how often, which feminists who used to run the streets and scream, "We're murdering!" More kids! Say it because you said it today. The facts, please. Second thing. Give examples of foreign sponsors who help feminists and women in these activities. I'd like facts, names and names. On the other hand, dear country, who controls the fertility of a woman, he controls her life. The purpose of Mrs. Godek's bill is to discipline, control and enslave women. This is the anti-life bill. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, knowledge does not hurt. Once again, the right to abortion in the event of a fetal defect does not apply only to Down syndrome. That's a lie. Most abortions due to this condition are due to the finding of somatic defects of one or more organs. Read it! Knowledge doesn't hurt! I'll tell you like a mantra. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Apparently, they're in pain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u454	Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Especially on the right we hear such information about supporting families, supporting mothers, law for life, showing the whole way. Indeed, a mother who chooses to have a child with a disability should be taken care of. And what does it look like in reality? Because I've already intervened in this case several times, and unfortunately nothing comes of it... [[Write a better bill, we'll back her up.]] Environmental Home of Self-help in Sielinko, Municipality of Opalenica. At the moment there are 20 places for children, so that mothers are simply taken care of. This house has room for five more children. For two years these mothers have been asking for help... [[Write a better bill, we'll back you up.]] Wait a minute. ...so that the voivode, the voivode of Hoffmann, would agree that five children would be eligible for this assistance. And what's the situation? Mothers are fighting, mothers are asking, mothers are appealing, mothers are also sending letters to Members of the PiS, to Members of the PiS from Wielkopolska. And what information do we have for these mothers? Unfortunately, there's no money. I appeal to you because I passed on to Prime Minister Morawiecki... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u456	Thank you. Step out of the podium. Adam Snatch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicant's Representatives! Do you really think that by tightening abortion regulations, you will reduce the number of abortions in Poland? Do you really think that this brief law that tightens up the rules will lead you to believe that someone who decided to take the decision to remove the pregnancy will change that decision? Whatever you've done, have you put in this bill any record to help a woman who faces such a dramatic decision to change that decision? Is there any way in this bill that you want to help them? No, you know perfectly well that you don't, because it's just your hypocrisy. You are doing this so that, when you leave this room, you will give an interview on Radio Maryja to go to the TV Trwam studio or to meet and interview in Sunday Guest. [[And you will go to the election.]] It's outrageous to have a political career in human suffering. I also have a question for many Members who are screaming here. Is it not the case that one of the parliamentary clubs present in the Chamber is one of the Members who urged abortion? Wasn't there a situation like this? 'Cause if that was the case, maybe it's worth talking to that person about not getting her to have an abortion, not forcing all women to do what you were forced to do, an oligarch from Torun, Tadeusz Rydzyk? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u458	Jerzy Małecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mother Teresa of Calcutta said: If we can accept that a mother is killing her child, how can we tell other people not to kill another person? And Mahatma Gandhi: It is clear to me that abortion has the marks of a crime. Through these quotations, I would like to stress that not only do we Christians, but also other religions regard abortion as a crime. Question to applicants: Is this bill a project that strengthens the constitutional right to every person's life? High Seym! I urge you to proceed with this bill as soon as possible to end the killing of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u460	Member Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank the applicants for the work they have done and all those who have engaged in collecting signatures. Special and truly great thanks to Kai Godek for the fact that despite all the hustle that is, this scream, all these black women, she could find enough strength in herself to try to collect signatures again. This is a great work, Mrs. Kaju, a great work, for which we thank you very much. I have a question for the applicant's representative. Can this one record, this one article, save thousands of people, thousands of people who, thanks to this record that is in force at the moment, be killed? We're talking about children with disabilities, children with Down syndrome. I know many of these children, I have many contacts with these people, not just children, and I know how much love, how much kindness and such truthfulness, the truthfulness that we all lack is in these people. Is it true that we can save these people with this record? I wondered what example, because often abortion supporters, especially from the Civic Platform, refer to John Paul II. I thought I'd call him here, but no, I'll give him another example. A young girl, pregnant, went to the hospital with appendicitis. Doctors put ice on their stomachs... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[I don't think it's gonna work anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u462	Thank you. Thank you, sir, but please leave the platform. Richard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u463	Mr. Marshal, in response to the famous drama that happened a few years ago at the Opole hospital, as an Opole voivode I spent several thousand editions of an informant for a future mother with content with safe pregnancy, childbirth and pilgrimage. The preparation of this informant was extremely educational, because it realized that the trauma associated with childbirth, in which something went wrong, leading to pain and fear of giving birth, took thousands from us in Poland, if not thousands of births, nobody knows exactly how much. The best incentive to give birth to another child is the happy, safe birth of the earlier one. I am talking about the fact that, to these fears and fears, you want to add another great fear to the applicant's state, which is going to happen when it starts deadly, I stress: a fatally ill child or so disabled that his upbringing cannot be done, and the choice whether to give birth or not will not be. In this way we will lose thousands more children, thousands more pregnancies that will not happen as a result of this fear. This project eliminates the demographic effect of the 500+ programme. The demographic future of Poland depends on the sense of procreational safety of parents, especially mothers. With this project, breaking an abortion compromise, you're asking this sense of security. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A giant blow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u464	Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u465	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I, too, belong to a group of Members who wish to thank the idealists, the applicants in the person of Kai Godek, but also Mrs Magdalena Korzekwa-Kaliszuk, representative of the CitizenGO Association, for collecting signatures for all the work on this project. I have a question for Mrs. Kai Godek's applicant. What the so-called practice looks like. abortion? What does it look like in hospitals? Maybe you can explain a little bit to some people, because maybe some people think it's a tooth-picking procedure, and it's not. And here I have an answer for people who call it the right side of the room, they call it the dark-garden, the Middle Ages. I would quote the famous French doctor who discovered the causes of Down syndrome, who said: We still and still see attempts to overcome the disease by eliminating the patient. Medicine becomes a mad science when it attacks a patient instead of fighting a disease. We must always be on the patient's side, always. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u466	Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u467	We... [[Nation.]] ...parents of disabled children, we know what love is, we know what empathy is. Our other children, or siblings, were accused here, and we also raise them in such a spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about fear. This fear we will not be if we properly raise our children, our young people. We are talking about the possibility of abortion and giving a woman a choice, or parents, because a child can be born disabled. When they don't decide, the baby is born and it turns out it's completely healthy? How many abortions were made because of medical diagnostic errors? [[Applause]] It may not always be the doctor's fault, but healthy children are murdered. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] It didn't happen here at all, ladies and gentlemen, in this courtroom. But there's been a lot of talk about women's hell. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, the year of women, let's talk about dignity, about the beauty of a woman, about her motherhood, [[Applause]] About mothers, daughters, sisters. These are the women who... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: The martyrs.]] [[Everyone has the right to choose.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u468	Thank you. Konrad Deepbocki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u469	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Question for applicants. Were they, perhaps, based on the principle of eliminating discrimination, which is today, discrimination against children with disabilities who are not born with children with disabilities? It's a long shot. What's a high probability? Lawyers know what that means. This is a general clause Either way, it's an inconspicuous concept. The idea of inconspicuousness is to determine the life or death of an unborn person. It is really a matter of civilization, life and humanitarianism. There was a lot of rain coming from this platform about it. Even from this point of view it was concluded: Where are the examples of scientists? These scientists are really very many. Quote: From a scientific point of view, it is correct to say that a single human life begins at conception - Professor Matthews-Roth, Harvard University, from the United States. Respect for the new life from conception and recognition of the child as a partner in dialogue are very important - Prof. Freybergh from Stockholm. I hope that all those who today from this speaker presented a speech of hatred, a speech of hatred towards the unborn life... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[What kind of speech? What are you talking about, man?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u470	Thank you. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u471	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the moment in which we can really restore the dignity of Polish women and life to unborn children. Mathematics in this House shows that this will happen so that unborn children will live. But I think we should make the group of those who stand on the side of life as much as possible. I appeal to you, my dear Members, dear Members of the opposition, to simply join us. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Never.]] That's very significant. Never, says the Member. You'll never stand on the side of life. Drama, intellectual drama. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, Minister, former Minister in the Civic Platform's office, was thundering here, from this speaker, screaming that it was necessary to be human to want to lead to such situations. And what kind of minister were you? A minister who was supposed to fight for his health and his life. Today, from this speaker, there are disgraceful words that you only wanted to participate in the character of killing children. What kind of minister did it take to be a clerk to get to the place you were in? Lucky you're gone, and you're not gonna be here anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u472	Member Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u473	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the discussion, I heard that defects such as hydrocephalus or spina bifida are the basis for abortion. I personally know the family in which the child is raised, who was born and with hydrocephalus, and with spina bifida, is disabled, but full of joy, very loved by parents, is already old. Why am I talking about this? Because it just so happens that during the examination of these defects weren't detected, everything was supposed to be okay. Perhaps an operation performed during pregnancy would improve the health of the child. Now the question to the applicant's representative: Do you have any knowledge of what it looks like to verify a diagnosis of severe fetal defects? After having an abortion, does anyone check whether the diagnosis that caused the abortion was correct? Is it true that the curable defects in some countries are the basis for abortion? Because I, ladies and gentlemen, in short, know the case that a sick child was born, although it was supposed to be healthy, no one expected it. Do we know how many inverse cases the baby was healthy and yet it was mistakenly considered not to be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u474	Member of Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u475	21 years ago I first appeared in this room and heard about abortion actually everything. I assure you, not much has changed. The thing is about eugenics. But I think this dispute has limited meaning, because if there's no agreement on this, since there's a human being... It's not like anyone conscious is gonna admit he wants a man dead. That's why it looks like that. This is a dramatic difference of views, dramatic, and it practically puts a shadow on the whole debate. We believe that from the beginning, from the beginning, from the zygote, from the embryo there is a man in the full dimension... [[Voices from the hall: We know! We know!]] We know. Okay, let's not argue about words here. [[We believe you, Tadek, that's where the hypocrisy is.]] On the other hand, on a specific example, it is: if a person is born with a distinct deformation, a disability defect, he will go to the Olympics for the disabled, he will win a medal, he will be famous. But if he's unlucky and tracked down, even before he's born, he could be in the majesty of the right to die. That's the difference, and that's what we want to change. [[Applause]] But in order not to end up like this, I'm going to talk about a case that really hurts me, and in the spirit of the opposition, too. I believe that the situation of mothers, women is dramatic. And if we want to introduce a law that guarantees the birth of these people - these people - we should first or in this law guarantee far-reaching state aid, [[Applause]] That kind of state aid, so those women who make a move... In the case of eugenics, she requested Mrs Bartłomiej Wróblewski to the Court. If no one would mind, then a certain long-suffering, and a gracious marshal would agree, it would be good to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u476	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u477	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Referring to Members' statements and questions, I would like to give you some information. In reference to the statements by Mr Cymanski and Mrs Zielińska, you asked about the concrete measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Poland to support families with disabled children, as well as to support women with difficult pregnancies. I would therefore like to provide specific information. At the time of the entry into force of the Act, i.e. From 1 January 2017, specific amounts will be allocated annually from the state budget for the implementation of both the Life Act and the Life Programme, which is implemented by several ministries, among others. Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, etc. In 2018 we will spend more than PLN 264 million from the state budget for these tasks. Within a 5-year perspective, i.e. from 2017 to 2021, benefits of 1600 000 will be financed from the state budget. zł. What are the benefits? With regard to the provision of health care services, this is, inter alia, the case. coordinated care of pregnant persons, which is carried out by second and third reference medicinal products. It is dedicated to women with difficult pregnancies. It consists of coordination of specialist care in various specialised clinics and psychological care. As part of this witnessing, women have access to specialists without a queue and without referral. There is also a project on child care coordinated, dedicated to children born with health problems, and within this product financed by the National Health Fund, it is possible to provide rehabilitation, multi-specialist services as well as psychological assistance. These children also have unlimited access to specialists without queues and without referrals. Children born with health problems have unlimited access to medical devices, in this case no limits are applied. The National Health Fund is currently conducting competition procedures to identify medicinal entities that will provide perinatal hospice services. These benefits will be financed by the National Health Fund budget. We also launched women's milk banks, which already operate in Poland. Feeding women's milk is financed by public funds from the NFZ. We know how important it is to feed mother's milk especially prematurely, and this is also a very important element in the prevention and rapid treatment of these children. These are specific health benefits that are implemented within the framework of the Life Package, but such benefits are also implemented by other resorts, among others. Family resort. There is a network of homes for mothers with disabled children. It should be mentioned that the parental benefit of disabled children from 14 to 30 days has been extended. Training and protection apartments for people with disabilities have been created. Free legal assistance is also provided to families with disabled children. These are examples of the current government's actions, and as I said, the law is being designed in the time horizon until 2021 and further measures to which the funds are provided will be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u478	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of a representative of the Kaja Godek Legislative Initiative Committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u479	High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for all the questions, and thank you also for all the good voices about our action and the bill that we tabled in the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called '70s in France was discussed. The Veil Act. It was a law that gave the possibility of abortion, among others. if a child is found to have a defect during the prenatal period. It was a few years after discovering the possibility of prenatal diagnostics of Down syndrome. When this law passed through the French Parliament, when it was tried, children with Down's syndrome could not sleep at night because they listened to the debate and heard what pro-abortion politicians said. I want to make everyone in this room who is trying to undermine the right to life of people with disabilities aware that you are being listened to. You are being listened to by people with disabilities who have the right to vote, and they will certainly not vote for you, but you are also listened to by people who do not have the right to vote. I don't know if you care, but these people are very violently protesting what you're saying, and they're having a very painful time taking away their right to life because of the condition in which they're completely undeserved. We're talking about the bill, we're talking about a recipe that only lost 7612 innocent children since 2002. We're trying to change the state of law because these kids are really lacking between us. I want to draw attention to one thing. On the one hand, and on the other hand, people who are friends of life and those who are enemies of life appear in this discussion, an argument concerning social security. The right to life is unconditional and I want to emphasise this very strongly today. Today, the right to life of a healthy child is not subject to any condition. The income threshold has not been given, the amount of the benefit required to grant such a child a right to life is not given. And I'd like to ask you to take a look at the case. It's a good thing there's such voices that you have to help your families. It is good that there are such voices that these children need care and normal human reflexes and help, but let us remember that even if we had a completely dysfunctional health care, we would not have any benefits, we would have no help, it would not entitle us to kill a man. Never. [[Applause]] There have been questions here about issues related to family relationships, about siblings, about the fact that siblings have to look at death, about the disability of their sister, their brother. I wouldn't want my children to be discussed here because they have the right to privacy, too. All I can tell you is that my son has two sisters, and I haven't noticed that these sisters have any trauma, on the contrary. I would like to reverse this question and ask how it feels, how the siblings of children who were killed as a result of an abortion feel because they had a genetic defect. Because these kids get this information: our love for you is conditioned by your condition. [[Applause]] I also have to all people who talk about this choice, about decisions, a specific question. This concerns my son, but also other children with disabilities. These are children who have a document in their health books that speaks of a misdiagnosis of prenatal diagnosis and a referral to consult to determine the future fate of the pregnancy. What to do when this child reads this card? He'll learn to read, read it, and ask what it means. A country that talks about elections and decisions - please answer me this question. [[Applause]] Almost 40% children killed in 2016 were killed because of Down syndrome. Part only due to Down syndrome - 221 cases, part due to Down syndrome and accompaniment defects. Even if we remove the possibility of killing a child with Down syndrome from Polish law, there will be other diagnoses, because the syndrome is a syndrome of defects and very often there are also damage to various organs or defects of different systems. I would also like to stress that these statistics, which we read, concerning the fact that children with certain diseases were killed, that some of these diseases were fatal, and that some of these diseases were disadvantages that allow them to survive - that this should not be turned into a list of deaths. The lives of each of these children were worth exactly the same, and they were worth exactly the same as the lives of each of us in this room. [[Applause]] The state here on the left was calling that genetic diseases are not being treated. Well, medicine is on the right track to start treating genetic diseases as well. As of today, scientists have come to the conclusion that e.g. In the case of Down Deficiencies syndrome, it does not cause the entire chromosome, which is copied to the genetic code of the child, only one of the genes that are found on this chromosome, there are several hundred genes there. The gene that is responsible for genetic interference has already been selected. There's work to be done to keep him quiet. Medical science has come to this stage. Unfortunately, eugenic practice inhibits the development of medicine, because you do not think about how to help a person, but think about how to better select people and people with problems to kill. [[Applause]] Illegal abortions. Very interesting topic, because whenever there is a discussion about abortion bans, on the one hand, we hear that the ban will not change anything, on the other hand we hear a row about fewer women interrupting pregnancy. I'm a little lost in this logic. I don't see any logic here. Indeed, it is worth mentioning the scale of abortion crime. In 1997, when the SLD and UP introduced the fourth abortion, i.e. practically abortion on request, a child could be killed within 10 months on the basis of a statement that he was in a difficult situation of life. Then about 50% Poles supported abortion on request, 50% It was against her. And that's when 3047 children were killed in 10 months. This means that today, when statistics show that many more people oppose abortion than they allow, after multiplying this indicator for 12 months, we can deal with 3.5 and 4,000. abortion. Some pro-life organisations, using demographic indicators, say it could be a maximum of 14,000, but, for God's sake, let's not talk about 200,000, because it's just one big lie. [[Voice from the room: Why lie?]] In fact, there are reports in the media about women going abroad, leaving Poland to remove their pregnancy abroad. And a very interesting situation: there are four on-call clinics in these relationships - one in Germany, two in Slovakia and one in the Czech Republic. Is it really so-called? Abortion tourism can be a mass movement if it is supported by four foreign clinics? Mr Stasiński recalled an example from El Salvador, where a woman was convicted of abortion, and she was convicted of abortion for 30 years. Your name is Maria Teresa Rivera, she left two years ago after four years. It's just so we know what we're talking about. [[Applause]] Another lie on the left. That lady... [[But she was.]] This lady was sitting down, she was convicted of having her child and drowned it in the toilet, sir. [[Oh...]] I'm very sorry that you're defending such behavior. I'm so sorry. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] [[Voice from the hall: How can you lie from the platform like this?]] I was talking about the scale of public support. The scale of support is powerful. The 830 thousand we bring to the Sejm, that's not all. If within 2 months it is possible to reach such a number of people, it means that several million people in Poland are waiting for this bill. I was accused of making a political career. The situation is crazy because politicians accuse them of taking a political career as a citizen. I don't know, I don't know... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[They're scared of competition.]] Perhaps so. I can't give you any evidence. On the occasion of the last parliamentary elections, I had three proposals to start here. You're the one who took off, not me. I come as a citizen, I bring a project of people who have very different views on other matters, but on this one issue we stand in the common position - we must immediately ban eugenic abortion, immediately. [[Applause]] A word about foreign sponsors, because the question was asked. A few years ago Wanda Nowicka's trial with Joanna Najfeld showed that feminist organizations in Poland are subsidised by abortion companies. The Federation for Women and Family Planning, which was run by Wanda Nowick at the time, provided huge, several hundred thousand grants to companies such as Ipas, such as Gideon Richter. These are companies that produce equipment for both mechanical and chemical abortion. They're companies. [[Applause]] Live... [[Bravo for the courage.]] ...interested in promoting the killing of children in Poland, because they make very good money abroad and want to do so also in Poland. The Ordo Iuris report recently stated that the organisation of black protests of 3 October 2016 absorbed PLN 1 million from foreign organizations associated with George Soros. So black and white. [[Applause]] Here's the money that flows into feminist organizations. [[Asia, listen, knowledge doesn't hurt.]] This feminist movement, which is supposed to be a bottom-up social movement and supposedly is a woman's movement, firstly, has nothing to do with women, secondly, has nothing to do with bottom-up social movement. This is some kind of organization that... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: You don't know...]] ...is part of the business. Because of this business, it is powered and its business is carried out. The draft and the constitution. Yes, this project brings the state of law closer to the constitutional state. It is worth remembering this also so-called. defenders of the constitution of total opposition. Art. 38 of the Constitution states that every Pole should be granted a right to life and that right should be protected. For incomprehensible reasons some of the small Poles because of their shortcomings, because of their diseases and because of their age, this right is being removed. It's illogical, it's clearly against the constitution. [[Voice from the room: Inhuman.]] Once this law is passed, we will have a legal position closer to the constitutional one. I appeal to you for a good vote on this bill. I appeal to you not only for this one vote, I appeal to you to proceed... [[It's gonna be okay.]] ...of this project without interference. Every eight hours, a small innocent child dies in the hospital. Also now that we are sitting in this room, probably somewhere in Poland they are suffocating a child with premature birth, because a defect has been detected in this child. It's inhuman, barbaric, and it has to end as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u480	Thank you, ma'am. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I did not get the answer to the question.]] Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I didn't get the answer to the question, and you...]] Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, please calm down. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: The lady in the speaker said lies.]] We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Law on the Safety of Mass Events (Prints 2140 and 2174). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events, print No 2140. There was a committee meeting yesterday. The Senate has tabled three amendments. The amendments have been considered and the committee recommends that all three amendments be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u482	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Law on the Safety of Mass Events. As the rapporteur of the committee just said, the Senate proposed three amendments, these amendments were discussed yesterday at the meeting of the local government committee. One amendment concerns the Senate's position on the need to clarify the provisions of the Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism Against the emerging doubts regarding interpretation of the wording of places intended for the consumption of alcohol. In adopting the amendment, the Senate decided that the ban on drinking alcoholic beverages in a public place would not include places for consumption of alcoholic beverages on the spot at the point of sale of those beverages. Secondly, the Senate decided to supplement the regulation with a provision allowing the municipality to introduce a derogation from the general ban on alcohol in a certain public place in the municipality if it found that this would not have a negative impact on the shaping of social policies to combat alcoholism and would not interfere with security and public order. Amendment 3 is an amendment concerning the date of entry into force of the Act. The Senate has proposed that it be a deadline of 30 days from the date of the announcement. As I said, the committee has given a positive opinion on these amendments. I also bring on behalf of the club the Law and Justice on the adoption of the law with the three amendments discussed above. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u484	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Among the few shortcomings of the bill that we indicated during its procession in the Sejm - our conclusions were not taken into account then. Now the Senate is leaning on two issues. One of these is a clarification of what is a place for drinking alcoholic beverages. At the moment, at least we know that this place is linked to the point of sale of alcoholic beverages. This is obviously a good change. The second point is that the Act introduced a general ban on drinking alcoholic beverages in public places. Previously, let me remind you, we had enumeratively indicated types of public spaces in which it could not be consumed. We had a general ban in respect of which the Senate amends, saying that the commune council would be able to indicate derogations, indicate where this alcohol could possibly be consumed. At the same time, we must notice a very important thing - that in Polish law is not defined, what is a public place, has no idea of a public place. In the Law on spatial planning and development we find a definition of public space, with public space being a space that can be private, and now more often it is private than the municipal or State Treasury. Now we will have a situation in which the municipalities will interfere with private property, identifying the owners of these public spaces as to how people should behave there. So far, we've had it in all kinds of regulations. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it will be necessary to decide whether public spaces are: a square on the territory of the housing community, a bench in front of the building of a housing cooperative or on the grounds of a developer, forest parking, a shelter by a hiking trail, the tourist trail itself, and even a national park, river or lake banks, unguarded wild beaches, meeting places on the territory of the Sołec communities, eating places at the ILO, moles, bridges, keyes, areas at ski lifts, recreation sites and meetings at tourist facilities, accommodations, links for mayor. I'm not talking about encouraging the consumption of alcoholic beverages in such spaces, not at all, but I'm saying that this sort of thing is a proverbial beer that happens there. I dare also say, ladies and gentlemen, that, according to our modern standards, including public space, the wedding in Cana Galilei, at least in part, was also held in public space. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Well, nicely...]] [[A proverbial beer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u486	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski is not here. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u487	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act on the amendment of the law on education in sobriety and combating alcoholism and the Act on security of mass events. High Izbo! The Senate has tabled three amendments to this law, which is in fact a bad law. In the event of its entry into force, alcohol consumption will certainly not decrease, but the alcohol gray zone will increase. Moreover, this regulation will undoubtedly hit businesses, especially small shops, small gastronomy for which alcohol sales are one of the main sources of income. It is also important to mention the unacceptable variation in the situation of alcohol shops in different locations - this is the case in this project - even in one municipality. The violation of the constitutional prohibition of discrimination in economic life is quite obvious here. However, regardless of the negative assessment of the law itself, the amendments introduced by the Senate are moving in the right direction. The first amendment removes doubts as to the interpretation of the wording "A place for drinking alcohol', re-establishing the formula contained in the current law, according to which the prohibition on public use of alcoholic beverages does not apply to places for consumption of alcoholic beverages on the spot at the point of sale of those beverages. The second amendment complements the regulation allowing the municipality to introduce a derogation from the general ban on the sale of alcohol in a specific public place if it finds that this will not have a negative impact on the shaping of social policies to combat alcoholism and will not interfere with safety and public order. Finally, the Senate also noticed a problem which the Modern Posel Club had already signaled earlier, namely a short period of vacathio legis. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that the rules governing the interests and the interests of many small Polish entrepreneurs will enter into force overnight. If the legislator decides to impose additional restrictions on entrepreneurs if it decides to limit the freedom zone of active people, entrepreneurial people, it should do so so so that they can take these restrictions into account in their business purposes. Therefore, on the one hand, it should be welcomed to refer to the third of the amendments introduced by the Senate, according to which the law is to enter into force 30 days after its announcement, but I would like to say that in the opinion of the Poselski Club, this period is still far too short. I'm counting on it. We're counting on the president to veto this bill. Considering, therefore, that the amendments adopted by the Senate slightly, but nevertheless mitigate the negative effects of the contested law, the Posel Club Modern will support them in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Law on security of mass events, prints No. 2140, 2174. The draft law, which was passed in the Sejm, aroused numerous controversy, as is evident in the results of the vote. The amendment adopted by the Sejm is theoretically intended to clarify and regulate the provisions on alcohol licences for sale in the municipality. It states that the municipality will be able to determine by resolution the maximum number of permits, separately for villages, districts or settlements. In addition, the municipality will have the possibility to limit the night selling of alcohol in shops between hours. 22 a.m. 6. The project also includes changes to the Security Act for mass events. The sale and administration of alcohol during the mass event will only be possible for operators with a single authorisation. The Senate made three amendments during its work. In the first, it proposes to clarify the provision so that places intended for their on-the-spot consumption at the point of sale of those beverages are excluded. As the applicants explained at the stage of the bill's work, this is about beer gardens. On the other hand, in the Seym version, the entry was: except for places for this purpose. It is therefore clear that the Senate has extended the scope of this regulation in its solutions. The second amendment introduces the possibility for the municipality council to derogate from the general ban on alcohol in a certain public place, and the third one concerns the entry into force of the law, which is obvious given that the deadline for 1 January 2018 has already expired. The Polish People's Party Club will present its position on the amendments of the Senate in the voting block. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u490	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my views on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Law on the Safety of Mass Events. I would like to remind you that until now the municipality council has determined the number of points of sale of alcoholic beverages, without taking into account beer or alcohol up to 4.5%. Alcohols such as beer are much cheaper and more accessible to the general public. Many studies show that it is the beer that is most common among young people. Reducing physical and economic accessibility is one of the internationally recognised mechanisms contributing to reducing alcohol consumption. Let me remind you that the bill introduces e.g. new rules for determining the number of authorisations for the sale of alcohol by the municipality board. The Council will be able, by resolution, to set a maximum number of authorisations for individual support units separately and to introduce restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages intended for consumption outside the place of sale during the night. During the debate in the Senate Chamber on the draft law, three amendments were introduced to the text of the Act. Interpreting doubts surrounding the determination of the destination for alcohol has resulted in an amendment whereby places intended for consumption at the point of sale of those beverages will be excluded from the prohibition of consumption of alcoholic beverages in a public place. This solution is nothing more than a return to the current legislation. The next amendment gives a tool to the municipality council, which allows for a derogation from the general ban on alcohol in a specific area, if this does not have negative consequences for social policy-making. I am afraid that the tool introduced by the Senate amendment may result in the opposite of the original objective which was pursued by the creators of this bill. It remains to be believed that local governments will use the tools proposed by the Act with caution and full responsibility. Self-government, depending on local needs and circumstances, will shape the policy of selling alcohol. It remains to be hoped that this policy will contribute to reducing the consumption of alcohol by residents. Although the committee has given a positive opinion on the Senate's amendments, near Free and Solidarnia it does not support the changes made by the senators. However, we will vote in favour of the whole act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u492	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days (Prints 2139 and 2149). I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs a position on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. After considering this law, the Senate proposed 10 amendments to it. All 10 amendments of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family have been positive in proposing to the High House that they be adopted, which I ask you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u494	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate Resolution on the Law on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days, prints No. 2139 and 2149. The Act adopted by the Sejm, initiated by the National Secretariat of Banks, Trade and Insurance of the NSZZ.Solidarity, defines the restrictions on trade on Sundays. Importantly, the bill contains provisions aimed at regulating working time on Christmas Eve and the Holy Saturday. Let me remind you that the citizens' bill was signed by more than 0.5 million people. The bill is expected and supported by many environments, but the most important is for families of people, most often women who spend Sundays at work. The basic purpose of the bill is to restore the families of Sunday, the possibility of its worthy celebration in accordance with our Christian Polish tradition. The Act does not impose a complete ban on trade on Sundays, contrary to the usual opinion, but introduces regulations like many Western European countries, while respecting the rights and interests of workers, businesses and consumers. The Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays, adopted by the Sejm on 24 November 2017, and on some other days was positively assessed by the Senate. At the same time, the Senate decided to introduce 10 amendments to its text. The Senate considered it necessary to clarify certain provisions specifying exemptions from the trade ban due to the emerging interpretative doubts. The catalogue of exemptions has been supplemented, the exemption provision laid down in the Law on the prohibition of trade carried out by an entrepreneur who is a natural person has been clarified only personally and three editorial and legislative amendments have been introduced. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendments made by the Senate and will vote against them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u496	Thank you. Member of Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position on the Senate resolution, contained in print No. 2139, on the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. The committee's report is contained in print No 2149. The Senate proposed 10 amendments to the bill. Some relate to the clarification of the provisions, but some complement the catalogue of exemptions from the prohibition. I'd like to return... [[Game in the O.R.]] Marshal, can you please stop talking on the phone?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u498	Yes. Mr. President, if you wouldn't mind interfering... [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u499	I would like to point out that these are further exemptions, so their number has increased. Can we soon expect to find more exemptions in the Act than actual exacerbations? In view of these facts, the Civic Platform considers that trade should not be restricted on Sundays, and proposes that workers should be guaranteed two job-free Sundays a month without the need for a complete trade ban on that day. To this end, we have tabled a proposal for amendments to the Labour Code, unfortunately it is still in the Seym freezer. By adopting these proposals, we will achieve the same goal by avoiding many of the pitfalls contained in the controversial ban, while at the same time ensuring freedom of trade on Sundays. However, the Platform will support the four amendments of the Senate, while it will vote against the six amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u500	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When the Trade Ban Act came into the Sejm on Sunday, we talked about the fact that it was a legal bubel, a very underdeveloped law, raising many doubts, regardless of whether someone supports the idea or not. However, one can take into account that this organization is not a law-making organisation in Poland, it is only socially active, it can bring to the Sejm underdeveloped projects, and the aim of the Sejm is to refine these proposals. However, what came out of the committee and finally from the Seym to the Senate was even worse called by experts, namely the legal bubble of the year. And that's the way it is. Even worse than how this project was written, how many gaps and shortcomings it contains, is the fact that probably the most controversy is today, namely to exclude completely from the ban on trade on Sunday's fuel stations. During the work on this bill in the Senate, among others. The subject was very controversial. Initially, the senators proposed to seal this point a little bit, that the fuel stations were not banned, and they wanted to limit the area on which the sale could be carried out on Sunday. But as a result of the senators' decision in the plenary room, the amendment sealing the possibility of trading at fuel stations on Sunday was finally rejected by the senators. Is it a coincidence that at the same time Orlen, a State Treasury company managed by your former PiS Member, your colleague, introduces a point of extraordinary general meeting of the company to be held at the beginning of February, an application for the extension of the company's activities, in which it is proposed that trade at fuel stations extend not only to food but also to clothing, footwear, dishes, kitchen equipment, perfumes, cosmetics, cleaning products, medicines, ba, even appliances and RTVs, bicycles, toys, sports articles, musical instruments? Ladies and gentlemen, is there a gas station? is this the place where this type of activity should be carried out? No. But if the legislator offers the opportunity to turn the gas station into a hypermarket, even going further, he wants to introduce a permanent trade there on Sunday, because you will be able to attract customers and earn huge money, then it is no wonder that business uses it. What's going to happen today is to switch stations first. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the mall, and then the mall in the gas station. That's what you've done with this ridiculous bill that's called the legal bug of the year today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What am I supposed to do with that knowledge?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u502	Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party. Oh, the Member has made his statement in writing. Let's get to the questions. If anyone wants to ask a question, please sign up. I'm closing the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The senators have adopted new amendments, new exclusion from this law. There's so many that maybe it'd be easier to figure out where one doesn't rule out. Besides, they do not correct too much the mess in this bill. Even the state Orlen expands its activities to be able to trade at stations on Sundays, e.g. Washing machines. I understand that you are modeling in other countries, but in Hungary, your loved ones, after a year, they withdrew from the trade ban on Sundays. Wouldn't it be better to guarantee e.g. Three-time pay for work on Sundays? Then only willing people will work. Ladies and gentlemen! Not for us politicians to decide how Poles are supposed to spend Sundays. Leave freedom of choice to Poles, do not decide for them, do not decide how to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u504	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister in connection with the discussions on the possibility for the Labour Code to resolve this issue. Is it true that a clause restricting work on Sundays in the Labour Code would not cover the actions of persons with whom civil law agreements have been concluded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u506	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is actually one of the larger legal bases and this is a disgrace, unfortunately, of the Solidarity, which is the flagship inventor of these solutions. What was done in the Senate, which is to delete the seal, in any way improving this bill... Turns out Orlen's lobby worked, and that's why we're gonna have shopping malls at every gas station. This indicates that someone was very interested in making such a bill, and that you were ashamed to sign it. I do not understand, so far I am unable to understand why you have not taken advantage of our proposal, which clearly and precisely defined how this can be done, so that, through the Labour Code, you can provide two Sundays free to every employee. Our amendment, our proposal was so designed that it ensured that it would also include those workers who have not only permanent contracts but who work on the basis of contract contracts and other forms of employment. Therefore, the claim that the State did not benefit from this simply because it could not be embraced is simply a lie, because it could be done. So don't cheat all the time. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Excellent performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u508	Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mostly Members who support this solution! I, in a similar way as my colleague, wanted to ask you how the Minister, but also the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, want to provide workers with shopping centres that will be built at fuel stations, on the 7th day of the week, because here the idea behind this bill was to provide workers with trade, exploited workers with trade, free 7th day of the week. In the meantime, today it turns out that some have been given free time, but some will work even harder for this reason, because probably the traffic at these commercial points opened at the fuel stations will be particularly large if it is the only shop in the area. Therefore, the question is how do you want to take care of the rights of these workers. I also have a question about when they're going to start working on our bill. We have already asked your marshal to put him on the agenda, and the draft was addressed to the committee, unfortunately the committee concerned, is not here today, at least as far as the bureau of this committee is concerned. So the question is, Mr. Marshal, when are we going to start working on a proposal for a Modern Law that guarantees all employees of commerce, including those who will have to work on Sundays, because they are excluded from the ban, two Sundays free in a month, regardless of their form of employment - whether it is an employee on a contract order, [[♪ The bell ♪]] fixed-term contracts or full-time contracts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u510	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u511	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it is a bill that complicates the lives of Poles, but it is so that part of the PiS DNA is such a complication - projects that complicate, make life difficult for Poles, make life difficult for entrepreneurs, active people who want to work, who want to earn money. And that's the kind of project that comes up against this complicationr. I wanted to ask, Minister, the representative of the committee, about such a very simple thing: why do you discriminate against some of the workers, the part that is excluded from this law? Why are you making it so complicated that you discriminate against those workers who have to go to work on Sundays? Mr Breakfast, you are the former President of the "Solidarity." Tell me, what are these employees worse than those you're protecting with this bill? Get out here and say it to those Poles who have to go to work on Sundays, to those whom you do not provide a day off in this bill. We don't really know why. It was a modern idea for rational introduction of such solutions so that every employee could have two Sundays off a month. You didn't want to take advantage of it, you took advantage of a very complicated idea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell me why those people who are going to work on Sundays are worse - why you think they're worse. [[Applause]] [[What is this complication?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u512	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me just briefly remind you that we have been working on a citizens' bill on reducing trade on Sundays. The government's position on this project included various comments, most of which were adopted by Parliament, taken into account in the final form of the law. And that's the first line. Second line. To answer the question of what, if the ban were to be written only in the Labour Code, it would of course only apply to workers, it would not apply to civil law contracts. So you can easily imagine that people would be employed on civil law contracts, not employment contracts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u514	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every day brings new revelations, every law by PiS - new disappointments for their voters, even more, for all Poles and Poles, also those who did not vote and vote for PiS. Now, from the Senate, the trade ban project is coming back on Sundays, the project would seem to have been worked out, with 10 amendments, and there are surprises. Of course, the e-sales industry can enjoy it, because thanks to the Senators' amendments, the online shopping industry can gain new customers. Her representatives have already failed. However, usually the devil is in the details, because for this commercial success they have snort and others. Following the amendments of the Senate, the High Representative of the trade union asked for a comment on the last Sunday, i.e. a few days ago, refused to comment. Did he feel like talking colloquially, blown by the PiS in a balloon? Possibly by looking at the actions of one of the state companies. I'm talking specifically about Orlen, who, if it goes on like this, isn't gonna deal with fuel, it's gonna be selling shoes, TVs or meat. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Recently, the management of this company decided to extend the range in shops located at petrol stations. Perhaps the trade unionists with the Solidarity have a problem now. Was the PiS-owska bill written under Orlen? PSL has always supported small family businesses, and here you can see that these family companies are also doing the PiS bill uphill, because it is a company that is always privileged, it will earn. They're probably gonna lose their customers, too, because the prices on Orlena aren't gonna belong to the low ones. What can the PiS say? That no one has to buy there. But there are situations when you just don't have a choice. Then will he or won't he have to build Mr Jasinski's empire? After all, it's the hypocrisy of the PiS squared, or maybe even the cube, if we added that another postulate of the governing union was not interested. Why didn't the PiS respond to the request we made during the committee's work? It was also requested by OPZZ. Instead of taking people's opportunities to work on Sundays, let's give them a raise. Let's make it 250% on Sundays. Students who often earn money during their studies would certainly be happy. PSL also offered another solution. If we want to limit trade on Sundays, let's introduce an hour limit. It wasn't interested in the representatives of the PiS. Like you weren't interested in the PSL Act on shortening working time on Good Friday and Christmas Eve. The PiS-owska majority rejected the project. Today, ladies and gentlemen, before the Law of PiS-owska, because it is not a citizens' project that has notified unions, it would enter into force, it would be right for the rulers to first explain themselves from this hypocrisy, from this disregarding the voice of citizens and hindering the lives of small, family businesses. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of evidence that this whole hucpa is going to end up like Hungary. Let me just remind you that as early as April 2016, the Hungarian Parliament abolished the law prohibiting trade on Sundays. He did so at the request of the government after a little more than a year of law, which did not gain public approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my views on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. Let me remind you that the regulations contained in this proposal provide for a trade ban on Sundays. The law excludes from this prohibition specific Sundays and places where trade will be permitted. These are among others. fuel stations, pharmacies, florists and certain categories of economic operators whose operation on Christmas day may be necessary. Importantly, the bill contains provisions aimed at regulating working time on Christmas Eve and on the Great Saturday. I personally believe that all Sundays should be covered by this trade ban. We shouldn't be making Sunday the usual day of the week. I am glad that the long-lost Sunday tradition will be restored as a time spent among the loved ones. This will help to strengthen relations within Polish families, and we should all care about this. We are all aware that a rested worker is a more efficient worker. As far as the economic aspect is concerned, the introduction of the law will not contribute to a reduction in revenue to the state budget or to businesses. Shops will compensate themselves for fewer trading days with an increase in turnover in the days preceding the holidays. During the debate in the Senate on the draft, the senators introduced 10 amendments to the text of the Act. I consider it appropriate to supplement the catalogue of exemptions from the ban on trade in first sale centres for fish, sales of fish by-board, fishing farms and facilities for the collection of fishery products, and trade in such products because there is a sale of living or rapidly spoiled organisms in these places. Therefore, trade in such products must take place continuously. The Senate proposes to supplement the catalogue of exemptions from the trade ban also with commercial establishments where the majority of catering activities are carried out, as well as places where the majority of bakery and pastry products are sold. I believe that the supplement proposed by the Senate to the catalogue of exemptions from the trade ban is justified. An amendment was also proposed to clarify the provisions relating to the exclusion from the sales ban of an individual trader when the activity is carried out on his own behalf and on his own account. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has given a positive opinion on the Senate amendments. The amendments introduced by the Senate are clear and complementary and therefore fully supported by the Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u517	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Minister, you will be familiar with our bill.]] Mrs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's not just that. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Can I make a formal request?]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure (prints 2142 and 2172). I ask Mr Waldemar Olejniczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the authority of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the meeting of which took place on 23 November 2017, I report on their work on the Government's draft amendment to the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure, prints No 2142 and 2172. The project concerns a restructuring law, the main objective of which is to support publicly owned companies with financial problems without violating EU law. This law is necessary because the procedure so far required individual notification to the European Commission of the use of public funds for this purpose, and from experience we know that this procedure lasted an average of 15 months, which in practice meant the inability to carry out effective restructuring, i.e. helping these companies. High Izbo! The Act in this form not only allows for a quick and effective aid procedure, but clearly and easily defines the conditions to be met by the company and the form of assistance it may receive in this process. Let me just point out that this law sets out in a simplified and legible manner the conditions to be met by the company and the forms of aid it may receive in this process. The Act makes it clear that the rules on qualifications and aid instruments are the same for both private companies and equity companies, and the basic condition for qualification is the loss of 50% of capital. The primary objective is to restore good health, enable the market to continue and, as a result, maintain the company's liquidity. High Izbo! During the legislative process, the Senate introduced five amendments, which are clear in nature. Yesterday, i.e. On 9 January 2018, the joint committees agreed to these amendments. Therefore, I ask you to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u519	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u520	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. I would like to remind you that the proposal submitted was a response to the guidelines which the European Commission defined in its conditional decision approving the restructuring aid scheme. The amendments tabled by the Senate are mostly valid. Amendment 4 is the result of the amendment that was introduced during the work of the Sejm, which concerned the extension of the period of vacathio legis of the provisions providing for the establishment of the Central Register of Restructuring and Impairment until 26 June 2018. The Senate pointed out that this change should also be reflected in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims, as the content of this article relates to this register. Our doubts are raised by Amendment 3. These doubts were also expressed by the Legislative Bureau and we will therefore vote against Amendment 3. In the case of other amendments, the Civic Platform will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u521	Thank you. Mr Grabowski is not here. Mr Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure. I can say that at the time of the earlier procession, the Modern Sejm was in favour of this law. We believe that all these measures are being taken to help entrepreneurs who are in some kind of trouble are in trouble and want to restructure their debt and continue to do their business, and these measures seem to be the right thing to do. As far as the Senate amendments are concerned, as is the debate, I can say that most of the amendments tabled are indeed worth supporting. We were just talking about Amendment 3. We do indeed believe that the Law and Justice have unfortunately repeatedly failed to take into account the comments made by the Legislative Office, but if we want to create a good law, it would be appropriate to bend over from time to time and consider that the Legislative Office is set up to ensure that the legislative process is smooth and that the laws that are being passed are really good laws. Unfortunately, Law and Justice often ignore these critical remarks and simply do so in their own way. Therefore, like the Platform, we will vote against Amendment 3. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u523	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u524	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the position of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Restructuring and the Code of Administrative Procedure. The Senate has tabled five amendments. The Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the four amendments, as the predecessors have said here, while we will be against the adoption of the third amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u525	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure. The Senate has proposed a few minor amendments. The Kukiz Members' Club15 will recommend that its Members vote for... sorry, this is another way against the rejection of the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u527	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure. I would like to remind you that the amendments envisaged in the draft are intended to align the provisions of the Law on Restructuring in the field of State aid with the conditions formulated by the European Commission in the framework of the notification procedure concerning the project, the aid scheme providing for rescue and restructuring aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. The amendments in question will improve the existing rules and ensure full compliance of the notified programme with the Commission communication. In my view, the changes introduced by the law will affect the possibility of applying for restructuring aid more effectively than before. The solutions presented are beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for the aid authorities, as they simplify and shorten the procedure for granting aid. Five amendments were tabled during the work on the Senate Act. Amendment 4 refers to the provisions relating to the central institution of the Register of Restructuring and Impairment, and the date of entry into force of the rules must be correlated with the date relating to the entry into force of the regulations constituting the register. Therefore, the senators proposed to postpone the entry of the provisions on the Central Register for Restructuring and Impairment of 1 February to 26 June 2018. Amendments Nos 1 and 5 are a follow-up to Amendment 4. The other amendments aim to eliminate interpretation doubts. At a joint meeting with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development gave a positive opinion on the changes introduced by the Senate. The Free and Solidarni circle supports the amendments proposed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u529	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws (Prints 2141 and 2152). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u530	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws, print No 2141. There is one proposal for amendment in the Senate resolution. The Commission, after considering this proposal on 9 January, recommends that it be adopted. This is a technical amendment, according to which in Article. Point 8 and Article 1. 589 § 3 is replaced by the words "person deprived of freedom temporarily issued'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u531	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski from Law and Justice presented his position in writing. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Osos from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u532	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. The Senate has made one amendment. It aims to clarify the terminology used in the law. As a Platform, we will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u533	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws. The Senate has proposed one non-disputed amendment of a technical nature. In view of the above, the Kukiz Club15 will recommend voting against this amendment to its Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u535	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. It is clear that this one amendment of the Senate is intended to correct an obvious mistake, it is not just a terminology change, hence the Polish Club The modern one will support the Senate's amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u537	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, I would also like to declare, on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, that we will agree as much as possible with its content, in the light of the clear technical doubt and the obvious amendment made by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u539	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u540	High Izbo! By referring on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice to the Senate resolution containing an amendment to the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws, I would like to point out that the Senate has made the amendment used in the article. 2 point 8, Article. 589zs in § 3 return of the person prosecuted, replacing him with the return of the person deprived of liberty temporarily issued. The amendment was introduced in § 3, which regulates the issue of the authorisation for carriage by air, over the territory of Poland, of a person deprived of freedom temporarily issued (vide § 1 of the added article. 589zs act). The Senate rightly proposed to replace the mistakenly used phrase by a chased person who was deprived of liberty temporarily issued. As Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the Senate's amendment is positive and we do not raise any objections.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u541	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 57 hours 21 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities (prints 2143 and 2151). I am very pleased that Anna Milczanowska is with us, which I ask you to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Extraordinary Commission to consider draft electoral law laws on the adoption of the Senate on amending certain laws in order to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities, print No 2143. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 27 December 2017, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws for consideration. The Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws after considering this resolution on 8 January 2018 requests the High Sejm to accept the amendments of the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u543	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are finishing work on a law that enhances the control of citizens and the participation of citizens in both the exercise, election and later the exercise of self-government. Several Senate amendments, according to Law and Justice, deserve support. Some of them, let's say, are technical legislative amendments, minor. But as for the substance, an amendment introducing the right to vote in correspondence for persons with disabilities is particularly important. The cancellation or deletion of the correspondence voting institutions that we provide for in this law, we predicted in full, met in a public debate with a large number of contradictions and manipulations. I.e. it was presented that the correspondence vote was the right of disabled persons and such a change was the pursuit of some limitation of the rights of disabled persons, which was obviously never the intention of applicants, and that the vote of the disabled itself, all points out, is a margin, a small part of the previous correspondence vote. Therefore, because it is precisely the rights of persons with disabilities absolutely in no way that we do not want to restrict, the right to vote in correspondence for such persons, to restore it in the bill, we consider it to be a good and correct amendment, at the same time showing that in this discourse in the Sejm, when this particular case was pointed out in relation to the whole of the correspondence vote, it was at least intellectually unfair on the part of the opposition. Because here we are screwing up various kinds of requirements regarding the electoral premises, the voting act, that it is to be behind the curtains, separately, in an invisible way, checking the identity, various types of safeguards against the electoral act in the polling place, and at the same time in the correspondence vote we would have tens, maybe over time hundreds of thousands of ballots to play, so to speak, into free circulation. Not much of it, it's a crime to take the card out of the polling place, and at the same time in the correspondence vote just outside the polling place tens of thousands, and perhaps hundreds of thousands of cards would have flown over time. And in such a vote, there is absolutely no way to verify whether the person entitled is voting at all, whether it is voting in a situation that ensures the secrecy of the vote, whether it is under some kind of pressure, under the influence of manipulation. We have no way of verifying whether these essential, extremely important voting qualities that we want to ensure have actually been ensured. So we had a conflict of values: this very important, huge value - that is, all the features of the vote that we want to ensure, and at the same time the rights of people with disabilities, giving them another, because one of the few, the possibility to participate in the electoral process in a situation where they cannot come personally to the polling place. In this difficult situation of conflict, the two worthwhile values of the Senate have, in my opinion, decided in my opinion that, in this narrow section, correspondence voting, when it actually concerns people with disabilities, would be possible. This is a change for the better and this change, like other changes made by the Senate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u545	Thank you very much. Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u546	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that the PS-owska majority in the Senate has kept in force all the harmful provisions of the electoral code, which, to put it all into the idea of free elections in Poland, agree with the idea of democracy in Poland and soon the president will get a document on his desk that will give the organisation of elections and supervision of elections in Poland to one political party. After the reconstruction of the government, we know that de facto the head of the National Election Office will be Joachim Brudziński this time, the number 2 person in PiS, who is responsible for the election result of the PiS, and his deputy Chiefnacker takes him as the person who will assist him in these matters. It is a very party and very PiS-like nature of the functioning of the organizational, administrative structure when it comes to organising elections in Poland. A major abuse is the claim that the Senate has restored the correspondence vote. He did so only to a very limited extent, for some people with disabilities. Many seniors, many obstetrically ill people, not to mention those abroad, have been deprived of the possibility to vote in correspondence. This law is an extremely harmful act, which completes all such necessary elements of the dictator - as we have often said - for PiS, because in addition to the assassination of independent courts, PiS takes over the organization of elections in Poland. And that's a very sad statement. In front of the president, a big test to see if he's gonna defend the last outposts of a democratic state. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u547	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskola has the floor... No, I'm sorry. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, or actually the way it's being processed, is really a psychic. At first reading, the authors report 130 self-corrections, then another 120 at second reading, and then it turns out that he is being corrected in the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder: Is this a conscious tactic? If you make 100 bad changes and then withdraw from 80, do you want to give the impression that you really have improved this bill, or have you really withdrawn from the wrong solution? Well, we say, no, there are still a lot of bad records in this bill that are harmful to democracy, that are detrimental to the efficiency of making elections, the independence of making elections. We object. [[♪ The bell ♪]] introducing this and digging into the electoral code a few months before the local elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u549	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u550	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present the position of Kukiz15 in relation to print no. 2143, or 19 Senate amendments. To begin with, we do not agree with amendments 9, 10, 11, 16 and 19 because they are put to the vote in total, 9 out of 19. The others are acceptable. But my question is yes. After all, the Senate had a chance to improve much more in this bill. I'm gonna focus on two factors that haven't really been corrected, and you're telling me that you've got something back in the Seym and then in the Senate. The first issue is, of course, one-mandate electoral districts, which are losing cities, municipalities over 20,000, and so unfortunately there will be no one-mandate electoral districts in medium-sized cities. The second point is the unhappy correspondence vote. First you ridicule this correspondence vote and destroy it in committee, show that this is some incredible aspect of undermining, falsifying elections. Then, praise to God, you understand that it is necessary to keep this correspondence vote in the 21st century. And in the end, you give a gift in the form of a cut-off vote, even if it doesn't concern people who don't have an established degree of disability. But there are also good sides to this project, especially the Senate amendments, such as the 1st amendment concerning inter alia. that corruption sphere. This is something that should be praised in this record. The very dangerous rules concern the State Election Commission and the strength of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in the amendments mentioned above. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as the lens focuses on this project, there is a question: are we creating the law in this House so that, for several months, a few months already before the elections, a few months before the elections, we will change the key document for elections, but crucial, to be honest, for the electoral system, for who will be in the local government? No, of course not, the answer is no. Such projects, ladies and gentlemen, should be created with a view of at least 4, even 8 years, in order to make this legal stability important. I would also like to say that we have made a number of mistakes, and the Legislative Office also pointed out this. One of these mistakes is to restore, I'm sorry, to extend, to extend the term of office from 4 to 5 years. It is right otherwise, because it is worth agreeing with this request, but such things are not introduced before the third reading, after the second completely changing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] project. A series of mistakes, incorrect legislation, chaos, mess. Nevertheless, something needs to be improved. We're hoping you'll get back to the JOWs someday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u551	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present our club's position on the Senate resolution on the bill amending the electoral code. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth recalling that this bad bill, which was adopted by the Sejm and later went to the Senate, in fact receives the possibility of voting in monomandate districts in municipalities over 20,000. residents, restricts the active right to vote, denying Poles the right to vote in correspondence. Finally, the third, very crucial element is the complete submission of the State Election Commission, the National Election Office and the Election Officers to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Today, we know very well that President Kaczyński has appointed his most trusted person, Minister Joachim Brudziński, as his overseer to oversee the entire electoral process. With regard to the amendments that were adopted by the Senate, it was obvious that this fatal act, illogical in many places, must simply be corrected. So we note the fact that correspondence voting for people with disabilities has been restored, but we are surprised that this right will not have older people, people undergoing rehabilitation or Poles living abroad. Mr Horała once again said today, de facto offended Poles and said that he considers Poles simply to be crooks, because he thinks that correspondence voting is just a simple way to make the election result fake. Another point that the Senate is introducing is, I must say, difficult to accept in our view. It introduces a 5-day deadline to supplement the composition of the State Election Commission. I am aware that the Members of the Law and Justice and Senators provide for resignations in the PKW, but this provision will also apply after 2020 and there is no possibility that the Sejm will appoint a representative to the State Election Commission within 5 days. I know you're doing this regulation on an ad hoc basis, but that's not the law. Another very revolutionary change introduced by the Senate, that's division. Poland in 100 areas for which political Commissioners will be responsible. You don't even know the answers, you don't know how to do it, and you set 14 days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 14 days from the entry into force of this law in a situation where the National Election Office will not have a boss. This is another element that is simply impossible to implement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u553	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on such an extremely important issue as the draft law is being conducted today. The 2011 electoral code was the result of long, tedious and extremely difficult work. This is the first legal act in Poland after 1989 that regulates in a comprehensive way the whole matter concerning elections, which are a celebration of democracy or the system for which many Poles fought. In a moment, in an hour or two, the Sejm will adopt an anti-government bill, internally inconsistent, moving towards a politicisation of the electoral process from the Commissioner to the State Election Commission, handing it over to officials from one party, a law to which 250 amendments have been tabled and withdrawn from many fundamental solutions, often under the insistence of arguments, explaining this, of course, with openness to the voice of the opposition. To this day, it is difficult to guess what the lieutenant's motive is, in fact, which led applicants to write this legal bubble. What have you men of the Law and Justice done to you, the elderly and fellow countrymen who are abroad, that you have deprived them of their ability to vote in correspondence, which is an essential element in strengthening the principle of universality of voting. The result of the work on this project, both in the Seym and in the Senate, showed the quality, lack of elementary logic of the parliamentary majority. It can be concluded quite quickly that, for reasons beyond its control, the State Election Commission will not comply with the obligations imposed on it by the legislator in the contested law. In our view, this is a planned and carefully calculated action. Polish democracy born almost three decades this dwarfs quietly during parliamentary legislative work, and the draft law through its records will clearly influence the positive electoral outcome of the ruling party. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party requests that the Senate's amendments be rejected, some of which compromise the work of the Polish Parliament over any measure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u555	Thank you very much. Mr. Ireneus has the voice of profit, free and solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u556	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. The Senate of the Republic of Poland proposed 19 amendments in the course of the work on this law. Despite some important changes that need to be assessed positively, such as the restoration of correspondence voting for people with disabilities or the extension of the period of storage of documents from elections to 5 years, as well as a number of minor regulations which are included in the law adopted by the Sejm, we maintain our doubts raised during the process of the bill. They dealt with issues such as extending the term of office of local governments to 5 years, which we believe, among others. It will reduce the social activity of local communities, as well as leaving one-mandate ordination in municipalities to 20,000. residents instead of our proposed majority ordination, multi-ndat... [[Voice from the room: Even worse than the PiS.]] ...and not to include provisions prohibiting the employment of councillors and members of their immediate family in organisational units and municipal companies in the Act. The Article has been amended. 24f paragraph. 2 of the Municipal Government Act, but the scope of this prohibition covers only the positions of the head of the municipal organisational units and membership of the management and control bodies of the municipal companies, but does not include employment in the organisational units and municipal companies at all in any position. In addition, this prohibition applies only to persons who perform the most important functions in the municipality: councillors and their spouses, and, as the Senate has added in its amendment, those who are living together with them. However, it does not include the immediate and preliminary ones, which can lead to the far-reaching pathologies that we are dealing with today. The amendment concerning the Article is also completely incomprehensible and vague. 166 § 3a of the electoral code, according to which, in the event of justified objections to the candidates for election commissioners identified in the procedure referred to in § 3, the PKW shall immediately inform the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, who shall indicate the new candidates. The same provision was added to the candidates for head of the National Election Office. I would like to ask the Senate representative: What do you mean by justified reservations? In our view, this is an indeterminate concept, which is difficult to call a general clause, because we do not even know how to interpret it. This amendment de facto shifts the right to elect commissioners to the PKW, which, with the wording of the provision, can question the candidates proposed by the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] until he applies to candidates accepted by them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u557	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u558	Not enough time. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u559	You have the floor of an MP...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u560	...members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u561	... Jacek Protasiewicz, Union of European Democrats. Thank you very much. Please, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, could you let me finish my sentence?]] [[And how will she vote? Because I didn't hear you.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u562	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! From the very beginning, the words of the President of the State Election Commission of Judge Hermelinski on the work on this law, who said that the draft of this law illustrates how little Kazio imagines the functioning of the State Election Commission, the National Election Office and the organisation of elections. And to tell you the truth, Judge Hermelinski was extremely precise, although he probably didn't realize that this project was not only characterized by an exceptional sloppy preparation. He was not yet aware that the work on this project would be characterised by extraordinary chaos, the best illustration of which is the submission by the applicants and the initiators of this law of almost 250 self-corrections, and a permanent change of position on matters which seemed to be at the outset - are crucial for applicants, such as correspondence voting. It is a good thing that ultimately this bad idea of eliminating correspondence voting Law and Justice has withdrawn, but the fundamental question arises: Why was this confusion? Why was electoral ordination changed so violently? The Union of European Democrats has a deep conviction that the only true purpose of this chaos, which has ruled in this House and in the Senate for the past two months during its work on this law, was solely the intention of jumping to the institutions responsible for organising so far free and fair elections in the Republic of Poland, such as the National Election Office, by increasing the number of commissioners to almost 100 and lowering the requirements for candidates. They're not going to be judges today, they're just going to be people with legal background, with the possibility of having a party card quite recently. The aim was also to jump to the State Election Commission, the body so far constitutionally independent politically, and in the intention of the law and justice initiators the body, which will be politicized. Therefore, once again from this place we want to appeal to Poles to look at the hands of the Law and Justice during the local organizations, and then [[♪ The bell ♪]] parliamentary and presidential elections in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u563	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Marshal, I would like the rapporteur to be in the Chamber because I have a question for her and I do not know who will answer me. And the question arises from my doubts...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u565	I'd love to, too. We're calling Mrs. Anna Milczanowska. But continue in the meantime. [[Voice from the room: Ask, ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u566	I'd like you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u567	Maybe he's watching the transmission.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u568	Marshal, who will answer me? Who's gonna answer me? [[Voices from the hall: Horala!]] [[Voice from the room: Mr Horal. The pear knows everything.]] [[The voice from the room: Then it will delete everything.]] Take a break and bring in the rapporteur. Madam rapporteur, my question... There is no rapporteur, is there? I understand it won't be. We don't care about...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u569	Perhaps the colleagues at the club will be briefed by the rapporteur. [[Ask 'cause you're running out of time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u570	No, no, because time doesn't count right now. The rapporteur took the floor and did not provide us with an explanation of the various amendments. The case concerns the recalculation of voting cards which were not used. We have accepted in the Sejm, Mr. Marshal, that the ballots will be recounted by the latter committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas the Senate has eliminated this record and there will be no second counting of votes. We talk all the time about election transparency, improvement. The title itself is even talking about it. On the other hand, we go back and do the opposite. What is the problem of recalculating unused ballots by the next committee for the second time? It's very important. It's important. What was the purpose of this record? I have a very important question and I would like the former rapporteur to answer me, Mr Marshal, [[Applause]] because actually many colleagues here raises the subject that we do not know the justification for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u571	Thank you very much, sir. We called the club. We very much hope that the rapporteur will come. [[The Member went to the bar.]] Meanwhile, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u572	Thank you very much. In turn, I would ask you to notify the senator or the senator of the Senate, because I don't think there's a Senate representative either. Mr Horała is an MEP. It seems that in the courtroom, since the Senate's resolution is being proceded, there should be a Senate representative. I wanted to ask the Senate's representative about the five days during which a new member of the PKW is to be appointed. It would seem that if the High House were to work and have an appropriate five-day meeting, there would be no problem, but the problem arises at a time when there is no possibility. For example, holiday breaks make the High House not work. So the question is: How is a member of the PKW to be appointed within 5 days? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u573	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When Law and Justice removed correspondence voting, we heard that it was because the function of this vote is used by citizens to sell votes. Today, Mr Horała once again insulted Poles by calling them crooks, but thought that the people who were suspected of selling votes in elections were not all citizens, but some, namely those who did not have a decision on the degree of disability. But I have a question for the inventors of this solution. Why a disabled person - it's nice that although this group of people - would be able to vote in correspondence, for example. a person after a severe operation, chained to a bed that cannot go to the electoral committee on election day and vote, is to be deprived of the possibility to vote, the possibility to vote on the chosen one [[♪ The bell ♪]] A candidate? What really is the difference between these citizens, apart from the fact that one has a disability decision and the other does not? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u575	Thank you. Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice have the floor. [[He's gonna ask himself a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u576	High Izbo! I'm gonna ask you a question, although I'm not hiding it as rhetorical. Is it true that if seeking to limit the possibility of fraud and irregularities in the electoral process, to secure this process is to insult Poles and claim that they are frauds, because this is how you characterized my speech... [[Well, that's because it was.]] ...the next step should be to repeal the Penal Code? Because they're there, for example. Punishment for thefts. Therefore, I understand, following this logic by adopting the Penal Code, we accuse Poles of being thieves. Yes, among Poles, like among all people, mostly honest, there are also those who want to cheat at elections. In some benches there should be great awareness of this. Here's another thing. Is it true that so far the organisational side of the election rests on the mayors, mayors and presidents, generally on the local government? So the claim that this is what we want to put PiS's political control under election when it is done by an apolitical, non-party commissioner, in a situation where it is currently being done by a PSL mob, the Platform or the PiS, belonging to a party and running for the elections... Now it's objective, and if someone doesn't run for office... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...it's non-party, it's not objective.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u577	Thank you very much. That's what I call it. The question goes into the air because there is no rapporteur. I want you to ask the rapporteur, possibly the government. Mr Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just wondering if there's any competition among the PiS Members who'll prepare... [[It's more of a correction.]] ...the less clever bill. We've just been working on a trade ban law on Sundays, now it's the electoral code, and I'm wondering which one's less smart and which one's a bigger legal bubble. I think President Kaczyński has set up some kind of trophy for Members who will come up with a law that will require a few hundred amendments, which largely violates democratic principles, which restricts the rights of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u579	Question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u580	...disabled, those who do not have confirmation of this disability. It's really sad that something like this is ever gonna happen. I have this question, because a few hundred amendments weren't enough, and now there were more in the Senate. If you come to the conclusion that this bill doesn't give you 100% victory Are you going to introduce her novel before the election? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u581	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. It is very clear in the legislation that within 30 days the State Election Commission must elect the Head of the National Election Office from among the three candidates appointed by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. As a result of the Senate amendment - that is Amendment 14. - is the possibility of not identifying a candidate and not accepting him by the State Election Commission. Then there is another notification by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. My question is: What date does the State Election Commission have to appoint a head of the National Election Office from among the candidates submitted in the second round? Because it's a bill on the subject. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She doesn't say anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u583	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u584	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that the absence of the rapporteur, the absence of any representative of the Senate, shows how seriously you are taking this important issue from the PiS. You're just so sure you're gonna get over it, you're gonna push it through with your knees, you're not even gonna want to come to the debate. I wanted to draw attention to the changes in the electoral order that it is now the Commissioners, not the communes' councils, who will define the boundaries and size of the electoral districts, and also supervise the elections themselves. It will give power an instrument to manipulate. The electoral commissioner will in practice depend on the rules of the electoral game. And what happens when it's dependent on the ruling party, for example. the Member sitting here, also from Pomerania, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will he want to be a commissioner in the Pomorskie district and set the elections and count the votes with these committees as he wishes? Like Stalin, it doesn't matter who... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u585	Thank you, Member. Unfortunately, we were not honoured by the presence of Anna Milczanowska, the rapporteur of the committee. I would very much like to ask you to send your reply in writing. [[And heartfelt greetings.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But before the votes we wanted to.]] The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 22. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 22 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. High Seym! Yesterday you died Professor Bogusław Banaszak, lawyer, professor of legal sciences, specialist in constitutional law and administrative law, judge of the Court of State. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. I inform that the President of the Council of Ministers has notified the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the agreement of the Act, the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Iceland, on the other hand, concerning Iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the commitments of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second trading period of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Brussels on 1 April 2015. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 120. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The Bureau of the Sejm submitted proposals for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, in print No 2177, and for a supplementary selection to the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis those of the Amber Gold Group, in print No 2178. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] May I have your attention, please? At the moment, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask your marshal to make a formal request before item 20 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the resolution of the Senate on amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities, you have allowed Mrs Milczanowska, the rapporteur of the committee to speak. We were just debating the Senate's amendments. Unfortunately, Mrs Milczanowska was absent, and there was also a Senate representative absent, which proves only one thing - the shoe and arrogance of Law and Justice, which for nothing is to be proceded over as important a law as the electoral code. [[Applause]] You are not only insulting Members in this Chamber anymore. You're insulting the Polish society. It will not forget this in 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u587	There you go. Except, sir, I can't deal with your proposal... Furthermore, the rapporteur will be asked, he will have the right, and even in some ways should give an answer. Your request or your statement is not included in the list of formal applications contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We would like to return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Republic of Poland. We proceed to the third reading. I would remind you that the committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law on printing 2163. First of all, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. The question is asked by Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u588	Mr. Marshal! This law concerns the organisation of COP24 conference in Katowice, for which we allocate PLN 127 million. The Civic Platform considers it unnecessary to adopt a special law to organise this conference. [[Applause]] We believe that legislation to date is sufficient. In addition, this law also provides for the withdrawal from public procurement procedures for the execution of orders relating to the organisation of this conference. So I'm filing for a rejection of the bill in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u589	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 187 voted against - 231, 10 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We approach the questions to the whole thing. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u590	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear colleagues! Today we are voting on the release of more than 128 million without a tender and without a competition. This is the third summit organized in Poland and so far no such regulations were needed. In fact, the director, President of the Presidency of the United Nations Convention, will decide about this money. It is the former Minister Jan Szyszko and will probably remain one. In this 128 million there are several dozen million for promotion and information, without competitions. We know, we have experience how money was spent without competitions and who they went to. [[Do you have any experience?]] From this point 0.5 million allowance will go to the city of Katowice, which was the applicant and is the owner of these premises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to organise the journeys of delegates.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u591	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u592	This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u593	Thank you very much. Mr Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u594	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I agree with Mrs Lenartowicz, but there are other reservations about this speciality. We have recently had the World Youth Days and NATO Summit and we can expect, as the BAS acknowledges, that these restrictions will become the norm, that each time you have special powers, excessive powers. In addition to the security issue in the organisation of this conference, you are simply afraid of environmental organisations. It's not the first time you've been afraid of the organization. Minister Sałek promised that if it was a peaceful manifestation, it would be allowed. Today we know from these regulations that you are simply afraid of the organization and will not allow any protests. This is not civil society, sir, even though you promised. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u595	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u596	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this very necessary project cannot be supported for at least one reason. How can people be banned from legal demonstrations? The Constitution guarantees us the opportunity to demonstrate our opinion. I will not support those who are crazy about the climate, but I support all those who want to exercise their rights. You can't support a law that prohibits demonstrations. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u597	There were no questions in your speeches, but would Minister Salek like to comment on these comments? Deputy Minister of Environment Paweł Salek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u598	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna answer those questions a little bit. The issue of security and demonstration - this is an exclusion only and only temporary for spontaneous manifestations. These regulations were for the International Youth Day Specialist and the NATO Summit Act. Those who wish to manifest their views at the climate summit in Katowice will be able to do so when they report early enough, according to the regulations, a desire for such a manifestation. That's one thing. Second thing. As far as funding is concerned, some of the issues will be covered by the agreement between the city of Katowice and the Ministry of the Environment. As far as costs are concerned, we believe that these costs will be lower compared to the costs of all the summits that have so far been organised in the world. Recently, the summit took place in the Federal Republic of Germany and cost 180 million euro, and we are talking about the amount of about 130 million PLN. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u599	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2163, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 239 votes against 186 and 14 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on special arrangements related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We are returning to the examination of item 7 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2158. The question is asked by Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u600	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: What guarantees do you give that the system you ordered will work? Let me just remind you that the Deputy Minister, who was responsible for this in your ministry, has made it clear that you will receive this program the day before you submit your applications. Do you really want to make sure that the Polish farmer does not receive direct payments? Everything points to the fact that you won't have time to check this program properly, run it, you just want to activate it, you want to apply for subsidies on an open body. This isn't gonna work out for you, Minister. Didn't you learn that you can't do that after the Minister of Digitization's experience, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where has the program been checked much longer?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u601	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u602	Minister, it's a shame, a disgrace...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u603	Mr Maliszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u604	...that the gentleman who's supposed to take care of the farmers... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u605	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u606	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! A question for Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, Minister of Agriculture. Because we observe in many areas, in many departments, such as the fight against African swine fever, inability and incompetence, and although there are some positive solutions in this law, we do not believe that the Minister will properly prepare the IT system so that farmers can submit applications for area subsidies and others in electronic form... The best evidence is the year this system didn't work. A small number of farmers submitted these applications, not because they could not submit them, but because the system was not working. For this reason, we cannot support this project, because this project does not provide a guarantee and the work of the Minister of Agriculture does not guarantee that it will work well and will help Polish farmers, and ensuring that the Agency will help in this, that agricultural chambers or advisory centres will assist in this, is no assurance. It's not about a farmer sitting at the agency's office with an employee and filling out an application, it's about him being able to do it in a simple way at home. Because there's no guarantee of that, I'm not gonna recommend to the club the support of this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we don't believe in the minister's ability. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u607	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Jurgel, asks for the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Boo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u608	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to reassure Mr Dunin and, in particular, Members of the Polish People's Party and recommend buying thermometers so that there is no fever. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Gentlemen, for 3 years you have already announced that there will be no subsidies in 2016 that will not be in 2017, you say that there were no advances... [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and at the same time we took over for you a system that required and needed repair. And that's what we do. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The programme will be subject to the so-called programme from 15 January. testing, Mr Dunin, if you know a little bit about computer science. Proposals can be accepted from 15 February [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] for those that have not been changed, and since 15 February they will be introduced and 14 systems will be launched. So I'm asking for peace. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Christopher.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u609	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2158 in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 243 against - 125, with 68 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2119-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u610	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. Yesterday, the Sejm re-transmitted the draft to the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation in order to consider the three amendments tabled at the second reading. The amendments have been granted, and therefore on behalf of the committee I request that the High Chamber adopt amendments and adopt the entire draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u611	Thank you. Let me remind you that this is a draft of the 2119 Print Act. We will vote first on the amendments mentioned. In amendments 1 to 3, applicants propose, among others. the establishment of a financial penalty imposed on the trader for carrying out his business activity in relation to the keeping of the records referred to in those provisions, without obtaining an entry in the register. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. There were 411 votes in favour, no one voted against, 26 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2119, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 438 voted in favour, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of storage of employee files and their electronicisation. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the citizens' draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Health Committee. Questions are asked by Members. Member Robert Winnicki, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u612	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Mrs. Nowacka as a representative of the Left Coalition initiative. Why are you lying? Why are you lying from the very beginning, from the moment you talk about the number of signatures collected under the project? You've overstated it three times in your propaganda. Why do you lie when you say that this project is constitutional, even though it's obvious it's not true? Why do you lie when you say life doesn't start with conception, even though it's just a scientific fact? Why do you lie when you say that killing conceived children is a matter of women only, thus taking away responsibility from men and thus making it easier for all irresponsible men, all men who leave pregnant women, all those who are Lowelas, casanovs? Why are you going hand in hand with them? Why did you bring this project born of lies and hatred for children conceived today to the Sejm? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u613	Thank you. Mr Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u614	High Izbo! We are in favour of conscious, reliable education of our children. We're all for the availability of contraception. [[She's available.]] In the PiS Seym he hid a draft resolution of the Civic Platform on the preservation of compromise, which ensured security and social peace. Today, the PiS compromise destroys, restricting the right to education, restricting access to contraception, imposing and promoting a conscience clause and supporting a project that is moving towards a tightening of abortion rules. Therefore, High Izbo, the Civic Platform is in favour of referring to further legislative work of the draft law on women's rights and informed parenthood. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u615	Thank you. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u616	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern is in favour of sending the bill to the committee. We want to debate a project that protects women and gives them freedom. On the other hand, I have a question for all the politicians of Law and Justice. Let me give you a quote: We are consistent. Whether we like civil projects or not. So far it has been so, and it will be so, that we will direct them to the examination and we will not reject them at first reading. This is one of the statements, e.g. Mr Schreiber, but such words were said by law and justice politicians in August 2016 very often. Not much of it, during the election campaign, you said that no civic project would be rejected at first reading. I would like you to be consistent today, because if you reject this project at first reading today, you will not direct it to committee, you have lied to your constituents and you are liars. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u617	Mr Bernadette Krynick, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u618	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that I'm here in this House owes me to my adult daughter with Down's syndrome. I'm sure of it. For many, this is incomprehensible. I'm sure she'd teach many of you to respect another man, love, and real concern for another. [[Applause]] My eldest daughter once told me these words about her sister: Mom, if it wasn't for Magda, we wouldn't be who we are. Today as an adult already a woman developed an unfinished thought several years ago, which I can boldly use today: We often do not realize how much intellectually disabled people bring into our lives. They're developing us more than we've ever been able to develop ourselves. They discover in us qualities and abilities that we would never suspect ourselves of. They build humanity in us that makes us human. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a true, deeply moral...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u619	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u620	...the definition of that word.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u621	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u622	I have a question for the applicant. Can you tell my daughter...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u623	Mrs... [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u624	...that she had no right to be born? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u625	Thank you very much, Member. Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u626	I know it's not for me. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the first civic project that we are voting on today, under which hundreds of thousands of Polish citizens signed up. We have respect for all citizens who engage in public affairs and report citizens' initiatives. Members of Kukiz will vote according to their conscience, as always. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u627	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u628	Thank you, Marshal. After the debate that took place a few hours ago, we know that the Law and Justice Club will be against this project, even though it was submitted by several hundred thousand Poles. I agree with this view that this is contrary to the electoral promises, contrary to the commitment you have made in the election campaign to respect citizens' projects. But for me, the question is: Why do we not give this vote to all Poles, especially Polish women? Why do we not ask Poles and Poles in a referendum about whether to maintain or to radicalize the rules? This Parliament is not representative of the number of women in this House. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Less than 1/3 are messengers when in society most Poles, citizens of the Republic of Poland are women. Let's give them the vote, let's not take it, let's not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us narrow this decision to this House, which is not representative in this matter. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u629	Thank you. One of the questions was addressed to the representative, the applicant's representative, the Citizens' Initiative Committee, Mrs Barbara Nowacka. Would you like to speak? There you go. [[Voice from the room: Nah...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u630	Is that okay? High Seym! I listened to the questions, I took part in the debate. Unfortunately, most of you weren't there. I can only say with regret that this shows the High House's attitude towards civic projects, no matter what they are. You could have come. [[We disagree, ma'am.]] I understand you've had more important things to do. [[Of course.]] It is a pity from the perspective of citizens and citizens that you do not want to hear our voice, that all you have to offer people is a barrier, a fence like today, and not just in front of the Sejm. I also regret that you have also failed to get acquainted with the draft law. You didn't spend your precious time understanding him. I am directing this above all to Members of the Law and Justice, but also to the non-attached Member. You didn't understand what the project was about. [[It's about killing.]] Well, Madam, you ask, and I answer: the right to choose does not mean coercion. As a legislator, you have a duty to write the law for everyone, regardless of the person's faith, on their views... [[You don't write the law for criminals.]] ...so that we can and can feel good, decent and safe in Poland. [[Applause]] You forget that 42% citizens and citizens are in favour of the liberalisation of abortion law, 8% He's in favour of restrictive law, for tightening up that law. Your sovereign doesn't want to tighten up either. [[There is no Sovereign. The Sovereign is one.]] You want to represent fundamentalists and fanatics? Do you really want to write the law only under the dictation of bishops? Do you really not want to have a moment of reflection that Poland is a common good? The more you clericize the country, the more you tilt the pendulum to the right, the more you take away the rights of women, the more that pendulum will bounce back. Remember Autumn 2016. Remember those crowds? I would like to remind you: then, between September and October, the support for liberalisation was 20%. Thanks to you, thanks to your lack of courage to discuss, 42% He's in favour of liberalisation. It is thanks to you that more and more women, especially the poorer ones, those from smaller towns, understand the hell you are preparing for them to tighten the bill. More and more citizens and citizens finally understand the hypocrisy we live in. The lack of sexual education is a fact. In schools, children learn nonsense, stereotypes and myths, not reliable knowledge. The contraception, especially emergency, by the actions of your former Minister of Health, is not available, it's only prescription, so for most people access is difficult, which, frankly, makes no sense. The clause of conscience, which concerns a doctor, is extended with your permission to pharmacies, to hospitals, to outpatients, to non-medical activities. You also expose your children and your grandchildren to the obscenity, the lie and propaganda you see underneath the schools, under the hospitals. You're putting women's health, life and safety at risk. If you want to be stuck in a lie, please keep a harmful bill, keep humiliating people. If you really want to hurt women because you want to hurt women, make them suffer beyond strength. The right to choose is what gives dignity. Today, women can choose what way they want to go. Each of these roads must be respected if they decide to give birth to a creature who will die in suffering... [[It's not a creature. It's a human being.]] ... whether they decide to be heroic or not, because they can't, they won't, or they just won't be able to take it. Someone who has not had the experience of parenting and motherhood cannot be aware of how terrible it is for a mother to suffer and to see her child die, to whom she was forced to be born, because one Member with another wanted to baptize this child. Give people a decent and safe life in Poland. Create a law for everyone, not just for the clergy. Don't pay your debts to Mr. Tadeusz Rydzyk in women. Don't make a commitment at our expense. [[No, Basiu, Mrs Basiu.]] [[Sit down.]] Remember that dignity has every one of us and every one of us, and the constitution that you all rely on is really talking about the right to dignity, the right to knowledge, the right to health care. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Our project is constitutional, and you know it. During the debate, you could not point at a single reliable point where our project is not in conformity with the Constitution. You are talking about the andronics, who were not prepared for the debate by the Members, relying on the laws that did not exist at the time, on the rulings of the tribunal which did not concern this subject. As a citizen, I'm just embarrassed to be so incompetent when I come to the debate. You need to start respecting some people, at least a little bit. [[Okay, okay, okay.]] I understand that some people are in a hurry, others haven't had enough fun, but we're here as citizens and citizens. We have the right to, moreover, have a civic and moral obligation to make these demands, because we believe that the law should be changed. [[Call Palikot.]] Hundreds of thousands of people support changes in the project. 42% citizens and citizens are in favour of liberalisation of the law. Don't use inappropriate language. Understand: the acorn is not an oak, the egg is not a chicken, and the fetus, the embryo, the zygote and the stem cells are not a child. You can control it, you can control it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[This is an outrage!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] [[What's this?]] Mr. Marshal, would you please calm your colleagues down? Mr. Marshal, could you pay attention? I can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u631	If you'd be kind enough to use words that don't cause aggression, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u632	Mr. Marshal, I didn't know that in the Seym, the words "hoof" and "egg" and "cell stick" raise such an objection. If the words "dump" and "dump" offend the High House, I fear that dialogue with citizens is very difficult. On the other hand, I am appealing to the marshal for control of the right side of the room. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u633	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u634	I'm not a messenger, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u635	Ma'am, I kindly ask you to answer the question that has been asked. [[But please calm down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u636	Mr. Marshal, I'll wait for a moment of silence so I can finish my speech. [[She's so smug.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u637	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the subject is very controversial and emotional, but I would ask you to listen. [[Voice from the room: Make this cell cluster finish.]] Let us listen to your representative of the applicants and proceed to the vote. This will be the most reasonable approach and the most reasonable decision. Let's just hear it in peace. [[Voice from the room: No way.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u638	Thank you. I understand you're emotional... [[Voice from the room: End.]] ...but it would be good if you, as representatives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland, could sometimes accept the point of view or at least listen to what you do not fully agree with, because you represent not only yourselves, but the sovereign you are referring to. It's for all of us that you make the law. A true patriot loving Poland creates the law to make everyone feel good and decent so that every woman and every man can feel safe. By supporting the project, let us save women, by continuing to look at it, you are giving yourselves the chance to create a good law. By supporting, in order to discuss this project, you also give your children, your grandchildren, your siblings a chance to have a good, reliable sexual education, a responsible state, a country that cares about us all. [[Voice from the room: Cell cluster, finish it.]] If you don't want it, I can only tell you one thing: the more you insult us, the more you insult those millions of citizens who want to change the law, the faster and harder this law will change so that you will regret it. [[We'll see.]] Less aggression, Members and Members, and more understanding of what you are, what the law is, what democracy is and what the constitution is. [[Applause]] And it's not just about this case, it's about a lot of others. Listen and respect the people. [[Mr. Marshal, that's enough.]] Unfortunately, today all you can do is shout propaganda. [[Voice from the room: This is not about.]] And that's a pity, because the 'Save Women' project contains messages that meet with the support of voters and on the right, and on the left, conservative-liberal side. I would very much like to thank Members for trying to dialogue on sexual education, on reproductive rights and, above all, on women's health, safety and dignity, regardless of who they vote for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u639	Thank you, Member. I am merely reminding the representatives of the applicants and appealing to your Members not to treat each other... not to say, "We." The Seym represents the nation. Each Member is a representative of the nation, not a "myth" and "myth." [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[This lady is not a representative of the nation. He's not in the Seym.]] Because this causes, ladies and gentlemen, a situation in which not everyone understands what the speaker is talking about. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 2060 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 202 voted against - 194, with seven abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The question is raised by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the applicant's representative, whom I warmly congratulate on the fact that this project - almost 1 million signatures of Poles, who are in favour of full protection of the conceived life, contrary to the propaganda of the extreme left, which brought five times less signatures to the Sejm - is now under discussion. Questions for your applicant. First of all, what is covered in facts is the propaganda of abortionists, abortionists talking about 100 or even 200,000. illegal abortions? Secondly, what options do we have today for treating children in the prenatal stage at the foetal stage? Thirdly, how does the state of law affect public awareness, how is conceived life protected? Finally, the last question. Is it true that Mr Stasiński from the Civic Platform from this speaker today was lying perfectly [[♪ The bell ♪]] about El Salvador, the case of El Salvador, and abortion, which is child murder? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u641	Thank you, sir. Mr Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u642	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are against harassing women, which is why the Civic Platform has applied to reject a project that tightens up abortion laws. There is and will not be our consent to force women to suffer or to incarcerate them. A woman must have the right to choose - the right to choose which is guaranteed in an abortion compromise, which PiS wants to take today, drowning in hypocrisy, drowning in ideology, contempt for women and at the end - Mr Kaczyński's guidelines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u643	Thank you. Mr Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u644	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we're talking about, in fact, doesn't give us any room to discuss. The bill you just rejected gave you a choice. This law of the committee stops abortion are orders and prohibitions. At first reading, you said it was time to stop being barbaric. And isn't it barbaric to extort women of heroism to give birth to dead fetuses with an uneducated skull or brainless? This bill is only one article. After 25 years of operation of the present law, no reflection, one article? And where are the necessary changes in sexual education, the funding of contraception? What about further care and assistance for women? You're manipulating information that there's permission to kill children. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Disability. We're talking about heavy defects that prevent the body from functioning. It is a great utopia to think that through the established law [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can make the abortion go away. They'll be, they'll be underground and abortion tourism...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u645	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u646	...outside the borders of our country. I appeal for this bill to be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u647	Anna Maria Siarkowska, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to the applicants, and in particular to Mrs Kai Godek, who has the courage and determination to fight for children like her son, who has Down syndrome, to be born. [[They can, that's why they were born.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Kai Godek. [[Applause]] At this point, I would like to ask her if she could give the High House an approximation of what medical procedures are currently being carried out for children who, as a result of the disability claim, were intended for abortion. If you can, please also inform, in how many of the children who were killed as a result of abortion, the initial diagnosis of disability has been confirmed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u649	Thank you, Member. Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u650	Ladies and gentlemen! This is the second civic project that we are voting on today, under which hundreds of thousands of Polish citizens signed up. We have great respect for all citizens who engage in public affairs and report citizens' initiatives. Members of Kukiz will vote according to their conscience, as always. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u651	Thank you. Mr Kaminski, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u652	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill you want to change is the result of compromise, compromise, I realize that it is very difficult for those who believe deeply, but a compromise that is equally difficult for those with liberal beliefs, because the compromise has to do with itself that it did not satisfy anyone. By amending this law within the framework of the program of brutal clericization of Polish life, you are part of the scenario that led to the loss of a million believers during the first year of your reign from Polish churches. If you keep this pace, it'll be like France or Holland in ten years. This is a pace you could be envied by French revolution leaders. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u653	Thank you, sir. There were questions addressed to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Kai Ursula Godek. Would you like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u654	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We started the year in which we celebrate the 100th anniversary of giving women electoral rights. On the 100th anniversary of women's electoral rights, it would be appropriate for women with disabilities to be granted the right to live. [[Applause]] [[The Aleppo kids would take care of it.]] Today, it is enough to suspect that a girl is ill or disabled, and such a girl is killed in a very brutal way, during the sixth month of pregnancy by pulling out this child, often alive and still trying to catch her breath. This child is left to die of starvation, coldness and asphyxiation. Grant the right to live for women, including men - the right to live for people with disabilities. Today we are not discussing one brief recipe with which we came to the Sejm, we are talking about living people today. Be aware of that, too. The statistics are that 40% Children killed today in hospitals in Poland in the majesty of law are children with Down syndrome. In the United States, studies were carried out - people with Down syndrome were asked whether they were happy and whether their lives were satisfying for them. 99% She said she did. If someone thinks that we are killing unhappy people today, those who do not have the chance to live their lives in a satisfying way are deeply mistaken. Medicine is at the moment one step away from inventing drugs that can silence the excess gene in Down syndrome. Medicine cannot continue to develop because it is inhibited by eugenics. It is the eugenic practice that causes people to be selected and used to kill instead of these people to save and develop treatment opportunities. I would like to refer to a few points that you have raised here. The issue of illegal abortion in Poland - in 1997 we had the right to kill a child on the basis of a statement that the mother remained in a difficult situation of life, i.e. practically on request. That's when 3047 children were killed for 10 months. This shows that the scale of illegal abortions in Poland today, under ban, is not as great as feminist organizations estimate. They're talking about 200,000, but this is bullshit. In relations with women travelling abroad, the media always talk about four clinics - two Slovak, one German and one Czech. Four clinics outside Poland are unable to handle the mass abortion movement from Poland. We are talking about the fact that Polish women travel abroad to the so-called. abortion, that's bullshit. [[Applause]] The present law discriminates against children at the prenatal stage, but causes them to discriminate also post-natally. We have examples of this, for example, in the West, where there is a similar law that allows children with Down syndrome to be killed. There it turns out that it is impossible to protest against abortion clinics, and this is exactly the postulate with which left movement came to the Sejm today - they also want to make it impossible to protest against abortion in Poland. It's where the smiling kids with Down syndrome get in the way of the TV, because the people who killed them feel bad watching them smile. We don't know how many of those children that were killed were really sick. No tests are performed after an abortion to confirm the diagnosis. We have reason to believe that some of these children were killed just in case, just because someone said they could carry a disease or have a genetic defect. This is barbarism in the majesty of the law. Medical procedures are very violent - since prenatal examinations are performed during the second trimester of pregnancy, eugenic abortions are performed at 5 and 6 months. Such a child is left behind after an artificially induced miscarriage. The media reports cases where these kids survived an abortion. In 2014 we had two such cases, in 2016 the media reported that the birth of a live abortion took place in one of Warsaw hospitals. This child died later left to himself. Ladies and gentlemen! When we bring the project "Stop abortion," we bring the legal status of Poland closer to the constitutional state. Art. 38 Constitution guarantees the right to life of Poles. Unfortunately, today, the bill takes away the right to live in three groups. We want to remove a rule that accounts for 96% abortion, and save as many children as possible in the shortest possible time. I appeal to you to vote well today, so that this bill is continued. I also call for this law to be processed without delay at further stages of the legislative process, because every 8 hours a small innocent person is killed somewhere in Poland. I also want to talk about the experience we had during this campaign when we talked to families of people with disabilities, with their friends and with children with disabilities themselves. Today, this debate is being watched by these people and these people know that you are talking about them. Children with disabilities can't sign the bill because they're underage. Nearly a million citizens have come to you today, five times more than with a feminist project, and they are calling for a law against abortion. Not only do these citizens appeal, they also appeal to children. They drew laurels for you, we sent these laurels using an Internet application. Those kids asked me to give you these cards. Unfortunately, we did not have the opportunity to bring all these awards to the Sejm, but at the end of this speech, asking for a good vote and for a good procedure on this bill, I would like to give a few such awards to the Prime Minister personally. This is for you from disabled children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u655	Thank you, Your Representative. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 2146 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 134 voted against - 277, with seven abstentions. [[Applause]] The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report by the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2132-A. I would like to present the report to Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u656	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. The report is contained in print No 2132-A. During the second reading of the bill, a proposal for rejection and 32 amendments were submitted. At its meeting on 9 January 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2132 to the Legislative Commission for the purpose of examining the proposal and the amendments tabled. The Legislative Commission, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 10 January 2018, requests that the High Sejm reject the proposal and amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 31, with amendment 4 voting in conjunction with amendments 5 and 24, Amendment 10 shall be voted in conjunction with amendments 11 to 13, Amendment 16, Amendments 26 and 28, and Amendment 20, including Amendment 23. At the same time, the committee recommends adopting amendments 3, 6, 9, 14, 15, 18, 22, 30 and 32 and adopting the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u657	Thank you. Let me remind you that this is a draft of the 2132 Print Act. We will vote first on the minority proposals and the amendments presented in the additional report. We are going to consider the motion to reject the draft law submitted at second reading. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. The adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Paweł Lisiecki, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u658	More than six months ago, we heard from this speaker that the committee that was set up would be a Bolshevik commission, an unconstitutional committee, a committee that couldn't handle a lot of work. Meanwhile, for six months the commission took away several properties from the thieves, recovered property worth more than PLN 0.5 billion. Recently, even the Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz family paid funds to the M.S. account under the influence of the decision of the verification commission. Warsaw. Question to the applicant's representative: Will this change result in the current President of Warsaw who is responsible for sweeping the case under the rug before the committee? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u659	No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. One Member abstained in favour of 152 votes against - 282. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests and amendments were tabled to the article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of law. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants propose to amend point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 154 voted against - 280, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 applicants shall propose that they be left in the existing wording of the paragraph. 2 and do not add lips. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 156 voted against - 280, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 4a applicants shall propose that the wording of paragraph be reworded. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 40, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 9 applicants shall propose that they be left in the existing wording of the paragraph. 1. Amendments 5 and 24 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 4, 5 and 24 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 159 voted against - 249, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 12 applicants propose that the wording of paragraph be reworded. 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 285, against 152, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 12 applicants shall propose to amend paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a vote. Please don't make any kind of shouts here. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 240. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 14a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 159 voted against - 280, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 15 applicants propose to add a sentence in paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 411 against - 29, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 16 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 32 against 256 and 146 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 18. Amendments 11, 12 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 10 to 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 158 against - 242, with 40 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 24a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 282 voted against - 155, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 26a applicants propose to add a sentence in paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 289, against - 29, with 123 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. The 29 applicants shall propose that in paragraph 29. 1 do not add points 2a, 3a and 6 and do not add paragraphs. 3. Amendments 26 and 28 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 16, 26 and 28 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 162 voted against - 277, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 30. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 18. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 155 voted against 285, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 30 applicants shall propose to amend paragraph. 1 and add paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 282 against - 35, with 123 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 31. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 156 votes against - 282 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 31a. Amendment 23 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 21 and 22. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 20 and 23 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 157 voted against - 284 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before considering Amendment 21, we will consider Amendment 22 as moving forward. In the 22nd amendment, the applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 31a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 21. We're going to the voice room. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 293, against - 23, and 123 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 21 has therefore become obsolete. Amendments 23 and 24 have already been considered. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 38. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 148 votes against, 288 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 26. We've already looked into it. In Amendment 27, applicants propose not to add Article. 39a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. One Member abstained in favour of 158 votes against - 281. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 28. We've already looked into it. In the 29th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 40a-40d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendment 30. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 151 voted against - 282 and five Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 40e. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 261 against - 31, with 148 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 31st amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 41. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendment 32 and 2 of the minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 154 voted against - 247, 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, the applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 41. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the second minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 285, against - 28, with 127 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 2. The minority's proposal has become pointless. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants why they have not included an opinion on this law, which says: Third parties will be deprived of any legal protection in respect of property rights, which will in fact constitute expropriation. From day to day of the family that bought residential premises on credit from third parties who in turn purchased them from persons subject to a revoked reprivatisation decision will be deprived of their ownership under this provision. That's an opinion. Professor Divine, head of the Attorney General's Office, who was appointed by who? PiS. Law and Justice appointed this professor, who so assessed the value of this law. Therefore, the 34 amendments we voted on do nothing. It is impossible to correct this Bolshevik law, which, for a good cause, deprives property rights without any compensation and guarantee that these people can get their money back. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Congratulations, you beat Bierut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u661	However, I would ask the Member to use a vocabulary here, which, more or less, so to speak, is worthy of the High House and does not violate the seriousness of the Sejm. The use of the word "bolshevik", however, is in my opinion detrimental to the seriousness of the Sejm, Mr. The question is asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, that's not a good bill. This is a project that you have created from this committee, which you have created, an even stronger committee. It's gonna be a committee that's gonna be able to deal with decisions that aren't final... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...she'll be able to interrupt court proceedings, she'll be able to do anything... [[Great!]] ...what her chairman will want. Ba will even be able to punish those who acted as public administration. [[Great!]] And you really want to punish Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, only she didn't sign any reprivatization decision, and Lech Kaczyński signed them without a few. The question is whether you will also punish all those who signed administrative decisions in Lech Kaczyński's day, whether they will return the money or whether these people will be responsible for it. In fact, we are waiting all the time for the reprivatization bill, which you have announced, which was about to be passed, just before Christmas. So? And still nothing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How's the rental going?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u663	Minister Patryk, who wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u664	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You could say after that speech that you don't really have any shame. You have no shame... [[Stop it.]] ...because you're messing with the reprivatization case, it's yours alone... I'll remind you of the statistics that are shocking to you. Nearly $4,000. In more than 3,200 cases, the presidents from the Civic Platform reprivatised reprivatisation. I want you to remember these numbers, the more that you remind me, you're referring to sleep. Lech Kaczyński, who showed you how to fight reprivatization theft. If you were doing the same thing as sleeping. President, today this committee wouldn't have to stand up at all, because it wouldn't have anything to do with it. [[Applause]] But I'm not surprised - I'm not surprised - that you want to block the committee's work, because if this committee hadn't been formed, your members' families wouldn't have had to pay back millions of zlotys, just as the Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz family recently did. There wouldn't be a speech about it at all. But you are blocking this bill for one more reason - because the longer the committee works, the more we learn about your governments and your service to defenseless people in Warsaw. The longer the committee's work continues, the longer we learn from the residents what the so-called process was. cleaning the tenement house. I want you to hear this, write it in capital letters. You'll be ashamed of it. [[Don't nod with that finger, kid!]] You'll be ashamed of yourselves for the rest of your lives. People under your rule were flooded. Older people were flooded with fecals, cockroaches were especially allowed into their apartments to get them out of their apartment, rents for many children were increased to 10,000. zł. Some of these families just died during the house cleaning process, including older women, of having a heart attack. When they applied to the town hall during your reign in Warsaw, they bounced from the door. [[Voice from the room: 3.5,000. The apartments got it.]] Such a man had no meaning, because it was important to make money, also by the families of your politicians. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's what it was like to serve those poor people. I'm not talking about the 90-year-old Warsaw insurgent you threw into the basement and for whom you couldn't even find a social housing... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...and you serve developers every day. That's the policy with which I'm going to say we're going to be in a way... Whatever calumni you throw out of this podium, we will fight it absolutely, because politics is the service of another man, especially of this weaker man, [[Applause]] who had no chance at fighting your ruthless machine, which served only the traders of claims. [[For the Misiewicz.]] And I'll tell you one more thing at the end. We're dealing with... One of the amendments contained in the Commission's Act is the most important one, and it seems to me at all to be the most important in the committee's current activities. You know, High Seym, why? Do you know what this amendment is talking about? This amendment says that the City Hall will have a duty after the final decision to unscrew some decision regarding theft of reprivatization - it will have a duty - to take over the management of the property. And do you know why we're bringing this in? Because as the committee makes the final decisions today, it's on purpose, even though you can, you don't put the city manager in there to help people, because you prefer that these properties continue to belong to claims dealers and that these tenements continue to be ruthlessly cleaned. You have the final decision of the committee, you can come in and help people, but you don't, because you prefer to show: look, they're ineffective. What's the big deal in public life? What do you mean? Does it have to be so every time that even such a simple thing we have to put into the bill to protect these poor people from you? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] It's a shame. It's a shame. This is a shame and I appeal to you, I appeal to the opposition to remember... [[It's a shame you're doing this kind of politics.]] ... because - I would like to say it again - we are here to help. We're here to help people, we're here to serve people. And as I sometimes observe the speeches of the president, your vice-president, or your former vice-president, because apparently you're ashamed, I feel like he's doing everything he can to protect only those people who have made money at the expense of national wealth, who have brought out giant money at the expense of giant human harm. After all, the moment is really coming that you should at least step up on this speaker and tell these dozens of people who have been thrown out of reprivatization: I'm sorry, and you continue to protect the traders of claims. [[Applause]] I'm just going to say once more, in capital letters, a great shame. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u665	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2132, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 286 voted against - 155, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1927-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u666	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Act on the performance of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. Five amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights considered them at its meeting on 10 January 2018 and recommended rejecting amendments 1 to 4 and adopting the 5th amendment of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u667	The amendments mentioned will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 4 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 172 votes against - 268 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 172 votes against - 268, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose an editorial amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 172 voted against - 265, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 27 concerning Article. 519 § 2 The Code of Civil Procedure shall be proposed by the applicant to extend to 3 months the period within which the eligible entities referred to in that provision may lodge a cassation complaint. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u668	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is about a real deadline for filing a cassation complaint. You know how long it takes to prepare a fair cassation complaint. The time limit proposed in the draft differs from the general rules provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure, which states that the time limit runs from the service of a reasoned order to the party. That is why I am seeking, however, to establish a three-month period, not a two-month period, and if this is a two-month period, that this should be from the moment of service to the party with justification. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u669	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 197 against - 241, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 32 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a providing that the body competent to monitor the expenditure limits referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the body responsible for monitoring the expenditure limits referred to in paragraph 2. 2, there is a minister competent for family matters. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 438 against - 3 nobody abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point on, I would like to thank Minister Michal Wójcik for his enormous commitment to this law, which Polish citizens have been waiting for for many years, which regulates matters under the Hague Convention. Unlike the courts of other countries, the Polish courts made decisions about giving children with light hands, putting them under enormous stress, breaking contact with parents or siblings, while saying that it was for the good of the child. I have a question for the Minister: Does the Ministry expect checks in the district courts, in the review departments on the qualifications of judges in the composition in the near future? Well, I often attend meetings, and there are situations where there are judges who do business on a daily basis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u671	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, asks for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u672	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I may answer the question of the modern lady from the modern formation. Now, as far as the cassation complaint is concerned, these are very quick procedures and we cannot agree to introduce the deadline you are proposing, which is three months. Let us bear in mind that the justification is actually issued out of office, and we do not even need to submit a request. The principle is the speed of these proceedings. On the other hand, as far as the question is concerned, I hope that there will be specialists in these courts, because in family court according to my data - there used to be such a study - there is 8% people who really want to be in family courts. So this is where we're going to be very careful about who should be in these courts. I hope people who have knowledge, experience and empathy. I wanted to say one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, because I think she's important. This is such a symbolic day when in some part we fulfill the will of the dead. Professor Lech Kaczyński, because this law, although it has such a long name, really affects cross-border parental abductions, parental abductions. It was a problem. For 28 years, there has really been no judiciary that specializes in this kind of thing. And today, in place of $9,000. The judges will take care of these cases by 30 and 40 judges. There will be a ban on giving children abroad until the ruling is final. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We anticipate, ladies and gentlemen, the solicitor's compulsion, that is to say, professionally prepared lawyers and lawyers will have to take part in these proceedings, because our citizens simply very often lost in these matters because they collide on the other hand with the entire camera of lawyers who surrounded or surrounded foreigners. Also, ladies and gentlemen, a cassation complaint - an extraordinary appeal that has not yet been made. We're bringing him in. He was never there. I think that we are building from scratch the whole system, the specialist judiciary, and the second step will be to amend the Brussels II bis regulation - the famous Jugendamty, Barnevernet. The idea is that Polish children should be placed in families where they are spoken in Polish. At the moment, we are working on this in Brussels, and I think that within a few months the government will make changes to this regulation. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Michael!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u673	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1927, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law on the exercise of certain functions of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u674	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I was wondering who made you this bill because it's been a long time since something so bad, and it's bad for you too, and I haven't seen it, and it's not just me. It's a government bill, so you've had the opportunity to get to know everyone's negative opinions. What is it? It allows for a one-off exemption of the de facto 1260 competent but poorly paid employees of the Regional Environmental Directorates, the elimination of half of them, the creation of branches and the employment of possibly their employees - loyal but without any competence - without any competition, again. You just don't pay attention to the fact that at the same time you're ruining your entire environmental impact assessment system. You're ruining the preparation of investment, including public investment. What do you need that for? Is it a revolutionary increase that you must necessarily go to every hole [[♪ The bell ♪]] Put your men in jail, do you need them that badly? This is gonna turn against you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u675	Thank you, Member, thank you. Mr Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u676	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The consultation on this law lasted 4 days. 4 days, ladies and gentlemen, in words 4 days and this bill has gone only to nine organizations favoring the minister. That's one thing. Secondly, highly qualified experts working on clear principles worked in the Directorate-General and Regional Environment Directorates. From now on, they'll only work there for the Bear because you wanted them to. That's two. [[How are you, woman, behaving?]] Thirdly, I have this question: how do you plan to get things done faster? I don't think it's through centralization, for example. the liquidation of the regional directorate in Gdansk, where there are many river, sea and land roads, or in Kielce? So how do you want to do it? These solutions are just from outer space. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u677	There you go. Those weren't questions, of course. Minister Kowalczyk, I will not ask for an answer. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 2129 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 170 voted against - 260, three Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and, as I said, addressed the bill to the environmental committee. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Law on the Safety of Mass Events. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism. In the first amendment to Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a The Senate proposes that the consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places should be prohibited, with the exception of places intended to be consumed on the spot, at the point of sale of those beverages. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 13 voted against - 421, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 14 The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 2b providing that the municipality council may derogate from the prohibition of drinking alcoholic beverages in a specific public place within the municipality. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we are voting on introduces a general ban on drinking alcohol in public places. The Senate's amendments, in particular this, meet our reservations by introducing the possibility for the municipalities to derogate from this principle. However, are the applicants and the Senate aware that the lack of a concept of a public place in the Polish legal system, and the similar concept of public space covers areas owned by the municipal, state and private authorities, increasingly private? As far as the previous legal status is concerned, the law we are amending listed categories of public space, which were usually or in principle exclusively municipal or State Treasury. Thus, there will be more problems with the application of the law. That's the consequence of a situation when it just gets out of hand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u679	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. No one voted against - 430, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 3 The Law amending the Senate proposes that the Act enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 3 against - 420, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to refer to item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Point 3 (1) of the Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 11 against - 411, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 2 The Senate proposes, among other things, that the ban on trade should not apply in commercial establishments where the dominant activity is to trade flowers. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u680	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mostly Members of Law and Justice, because, above all, it is your club that supports this project. I wanted to ask you how you want to provide two Sundays a month off for florist workers, but not only for petrol stations, where ideas and projects have been created recently, how to organize full shopping malls there. As you well know, Orlen, managed by your friend, former Member of Law and Justice, has just proposed to expand his business to sell not only fuel at fuel stations, not only the necessary food for consumption by travelers, but also household appliances, clothes, shoes, clothing. As we observed during our work [[♪ The bell ♪]] the commission that exactly this is going to happen, that there will be shopping malls at the gas stations...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u681	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u682	...and the mall will turn into gas stations, and you mocked us for saying so. Apologize for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u683	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 135 voted against - 296, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 The Senate proposes that trade bans should not apply, inter alia. in the first fish sales centers. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. In favour of 1 against - 429, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 16 of the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. No one voted in favour, against - 427, of 1 Member. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 18 of the Senate proposes that trade bans should not apply to commercial facilities within military units. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. One Member abstained in favour of 141 votes against - 288. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 26 of the Senate proposes that the trade ban should not apply to commercial establishments where trade is carried out by an entrepreneur who is a natural person only personally, on his own behalf and on his own account. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 160 votes against - 277, one Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 27 of point 1 and paragraph 27 of Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 2 The Senate proposes, among other things, that the ban on trade should not apply in bakeries, confectionery and ice cream shops, where the major activity is to trade in bakery and pastry products. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Two Members abstained in favour of 152 votes against - 282. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 6 The Senate proposes among others. in paragraph 27a, added. 1 so that the prohibition of trade does not apply in commercial establishments where catering activities are predominantly active. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 14 votes against - 415 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 29 of the Senate proposes that the scope of the activities referred to in that provision should concern trade-related activities. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 150 votes against - 280 and one Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 218a Criminal Code Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. Two Members abstained in favour of 165 votes against - 273. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Restructuring Law and the Code of Administrative Procedure. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1. The Senate proposes that the title of the Act should be amended to read: on the amendment of the Restructuring Law, the Code of Administrative Procedure and the Act on the amendment of certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. Amendments 4 and 5 align with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 4 and 5 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr Cymanski... Yeah. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thank you. 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 2 against - 437. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 6 of the Law on Restructuring The Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 145 of the Law on Restructuring The Senate proposes to delete the amendment to paragraph 1. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u684	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment was made by the employees of the Legislative Office who claimed that we should not accept it. It has already become a tradition that Law and Justice do not take into account the opinions of prominent specialists, law professors or the Legislative Office. Question: "Why do you not consider the opinions of those who work here to improve what we unfortunately miss?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u685	Unfortunately, I'm forced to deny the claim, the premise from which you raise this question. So, Mr President, I am very sorry that you are mistaken in your statement. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 168 votes against - 261. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to replace the words of the person prosecuted with the words of a person deprived of the freedom temporarily issued. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. One Member voted against - 438, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to increase the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 24f paragraph. 2 The Act on the Municipal Government of the Senate proposes to extend the restriction on the conduct of business activities to persons in common life. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No.]] No. Member Thomas Jaskoła, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u686	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are two very important shortcomings in this project. The first is the lack of legal stability. The electoral code does not change in the election year, several months before the election. The second flaw is undoubtedly sloppy. 240 amendments to the Extraordinary Commission. Of this many amendments, which were our proposals for minorities, are taken over by you. Of course, it's a good thing you're improving this project. On the other hand, I would like to ask the applicants why, in this project, otherwise in this anti-corruption amendment, and rightly so, there are no additional categories: initials and initials in the first line and shoulders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u687	Is there a Senate representative? There isn't. The question is asked by the Member... No, we're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 14 votes against - 277, with 144 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 2 to 15. The Senate reported it to the article. 5 amending act containing amendments to the electoral code law. In the second amendment to the article. 8 The Senate proposes among others. in the added § 1a to keep the election documents for at least 5 years. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. Against the vote of 437, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment almost unanimously. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to restore the possibility for disabled voters to vote in correspondence. This amendment is linked to 17. amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u688	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is with satisfaction to note that the Senate has restored the correspondence vote, but with sadness - that only for disabled people. Why have the elderly, the sick, but also our fellow countrymen who are abroad been deprived of this right? This question is particularly addressed to the rapporteur, who was absent from the Parliament during the debate. Maybe he'll answer now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u689	Thank you. The question is asked by Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u690	High Seym! Let us not be illusioned: this amendment, contrary to the title, does not restore correspondence voting. [[Applause]] This amendment is only a partial consequence of the wave of social outrage which has passed through Poland after the Law and Justice have completely abolished the correspondence vote, because disabled people can trade in votes, because disabled people are involved in fraud - this is the justification. This amendment is half a step forward after three steps taken backwards. Following the adoption of this amendment, most people with disabilities will still be deprived of the possibility to vote in correspondence. This applies in particular to 1 million people with disabilities, who, as confirmed by subsequent studies by the CSO, do not have a formal disability ruling, and this applies especially to older people who will not go for such a decision just to participate in the elections once every few years. Thus, contrary to the title, the law does not increase the participation of citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and restricts this participation and, contrary to the title, the amendment does not restore opportunities, but is only a partial concession.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u691	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u692	Therefore, the Civic Platform will present a draft bill restoring all correspondence voting for people with disabilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u693	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A month ago, Members of the PiS restricted the electoral rights of Poles by eliminating the correspondence vote. In the Senate, you've only corrected it to a very small extent. The message you had when you voted out in correspondence, as you have said many times in this Chamber, is that you think that Poles are cheaters, that those who want to use the correspondence vote will cheat that this vote will not be given as they wish. Ladies and gentlemen, have a little more confidence in the Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u695	Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor. [[Voice from the hall: Are you a believer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u696	Yes, a believer, but not a socialist, sir. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! First you take something, we convince you in committee that you shouldn't take it without having absolutely no arguments. Besides, there were representatives of the PKW and showed that it was only 46 thousand. Packages. There's no evidence that there were fake votes in these packages. Now all of a sudden, under the influence of social pressure, you're restoring only a part of this so-called thing. a written vote. We ask when the full correspondence vote will be restored. In the 21st century, there is no doubt. Countries such as Estonia, Ireland, many Western European countries are e-voting, voting online, and we are wondering whether to allow correspondence voting for disabled citizens [[♪ The bell ♪]] And temporarily turned into a bed. Scandal! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u697	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u698	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say, I've missed you from the opposition, there's always something you can count on. We have learned some interesting things, Estonia lies in the west of Europe. Besides, High Izbo, the question is, is it true that we have fulfilled our promise, our promise... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] ...which fell and at the Extraordinary Commission meeting, and here, in the Sejm, that we will restore correspondence voting for people with disabilities. That's what we were talking about. High Izbo! I am surprised by the approach of representatives of PO and PSL who want to... [[It's worth knowing what they say.]] ...to restore correspondence to all, while in Article. 53a The electoral code is only allowed in local elections for people with disabilities. I also remind you, High Izbo, that during the local elections [[♪ The bell ♪]] abroad does not vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u699	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 17 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Against the vote of 435, 4 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 13 The Senate proposes to give a new wording to § 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Against the vote of 309, with 121 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 56 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Calm down, please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. No one voted against - 307, with 111 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 70 § 1a and 1b The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 6 against - 304, with 120 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 70 The Senate proposes a new wording § 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, Law and Justice... [[No, no, no, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Excuse me, Polish People's Party. Yes, yes, ask the question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u700	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like the rapporteur to answer the question that we have asked here during the examination of the amendments. We didn't get that answer. The title of the Act, the whole intention of the Act is to ensure transparency of voting, better access for citizens to the electoral process. On the other hand, the Sejm accepted the solution that, after passing the votes to the second committee, the committee would recalculate the clean ballots, which were not used. However, this goes back in the Senate, and there is no other translation. The question I and many of my fellow Members here in this Chamber are: What was the intention of this transparency changing, because this was intended to guarantee transparency. So we're doing the opposite of declaring our entire discussion. I would like to hear from the honourable Member [[♪ The bell ♪]] The rapporteur heard the answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u701	Thank you. The Senate representative is gone, I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 139 voted against - 296, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 110 The Senate proposes to amend § 6a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u702	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For starters, Mr Reporter, I said Estonia and other Western countries. The geographical direction is the Western countries, but there is still the concept of Western civilization, which Estonia certainly belongs to. [[Applause]] As for this amendment, we have another sloppyness, because please note that in the explanatory memorandum we have that posters, slogans on the property do not need to be cleaned, removed. But I wouldn't mind. he also pointed out a provision which you had in any event missed in the Senate. Namely, it concerns campaign costs outside the committee. I do not know if you are aware of this, but this project has opened the possibility of financing your campaign outside the committee and without its consent, so we have opened a corrupt mechanism absolutely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u703	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 28 against - 298, with 107 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 158 The Senate proposes a new wording § 2nd sentence. This amendment is linked to the 19th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against Amendments 9 and 19 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 190 voted against - 247, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 166 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 157 voted against - 278, with 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 166 The Senate proposes to amend the first sentence of paragraph 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u704	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is yet another proof of some kind of enigmatic legislation in which we can't actually make sense. Because what does it mean that the election commissioner should give the guarantee of proper office? It means that apart from being a lawyer, and we've left the judge's system... Then what is this warranty of proper duty? Height 180 cm, blond hair, party membership, certificate from you, from the parish priest? What is the guarantee of proper administration of the election commissioner? I'd ask someone to finally try to explain the vague concepts and things you shouldn't use in the law because they don't exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u705	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u706	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed Senate amendment aims to convince citizens that candidates for electoral commissioners indicated by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration will be apolitical as well as judges who are currently elected commissioners. In addition to having a legal education, the guaranteeing of a proper job as a commissioner is almost to constitute the independence and independence of the Commissioners, who will be personally known by the Head of the Home Affairs Department. However, there may be nothing to do with the fine-tuning of regulations and leave much higher standards in this respect which are currently in force. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u707	Thank you. Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u708	Ladies and gentlemen! Members who do not know what a general clause is and why they sometimes appear in laws, I recommend reading any manual to access the law. However, is it true that at present - because there is a charge that these Commissioners will politically and biasly organise elections - these tasks are carried out by the lords, mayors, presidents, who may belong to political parties and often belong, who - further, more - start themselves in the elections they organise? And now like a member of the PSL, Platform or maybe PiS, running for elections that he is organizing and, as I understand it, he's doing it impartially, but how will this be done by an apartmentary, apolitical electoral commissioner who's not allowed to run in elections, then it's going to be biased. It is simply at the level of your logic that your argument does not stick to the whole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u709	It's clear. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 157 votes against - 281 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 166 The Senate proposes to add § 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 150 votes against - 276, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 187 § 1 The Senate proposes a legislative change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. The vote was 3 against - 313, with 125 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 190 The Senate proposes to add § 2a-2c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u710	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Brudziński. It concerns the appointment of the head of the National Election Office. As you know, the Minister will oversee this process, de facto the National Election Office will be fully accountable to him. In accordance with the provisions of the Law which came out of the Sejm, the State Election Commission was to appoint a new Head within 30 days from the three candidates designated by the Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Senate amendment aims to ensure that the State Election Commission may not accept these candidates. The Minister will then indicate two further personal proposals, but no longer sets the deadline within which the State Election Commission is to accept these candidates. Minister, is there even a time limit within which the State Election Commission is to accept the candidate from this overtime [[♪ The bell ♪]] And choose the head of the National Election Office?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u711	Thank you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u712	Then why bring in the second tour? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u713	Thank you very much. I remind you that, perhaps in any term of office, in terms of changes in ordination or in the electoral code, there has never been a representative of the government. [[No comment, you're in charge of this session.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 164 voted against - 238 and 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. The 484th Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 2 against - 309, with 129 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th Amendment to the Law amending the Senate proposes to add an article. 8a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 184 voted against - 255, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. Point 18 (1) of the Law amending the Senate proposes that the words "11-13" be replaced by "11-14" in the words "11-14." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u714	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In a moment, the High House will adopt an anti-government bill internally inconsistent, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] moving towards a politicisation of the electoral process, from the Commissioner to the State Election Commission. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Prepped 10 months before the elections, it shows bad intentions for influencing the election result through lawmaking. Such actions usually end badly for those who do. I'm reminding you of 2007, when you've worked it out. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Member of Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: 2014.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u715	Let me remind you that we are talking about replacing words, so that you ask questions or refer to the amendment. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u716	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The most outrageous thing about this law is that you hit the majority of one-mandate electoral districts, and then you restored them with grace, but you didn't return them in municipalities with more than 20,000, i.e. in medium-sized cities. I would like to point out to you that these one-mandate electoral districts that you despise, which are a reproach at every vote in this House, will be fully restored not only in all municipalities, but also in all local government units...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u717	Mr President, talk about the 18th amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u718	...and undoubtedly in Parliament they will be restored, because it is the right approach to freedom and, above all, the right passive electoral right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u719	Mr President, please refer to the 18th amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u720	JOW... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...or death. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u721	Excuse me, sir, but the 18th amendment, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the date of entry into force of the law, so please talk about it. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 2, against 283, with 153 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2177). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2177 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 410, against - 4, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: A selection complementary to the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group (print No 2178). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. 5a of the law on the parliamentary committee of inquiry submitted a proposal for supplementary selection to the personal composition of the committee of inquiry. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? I can't see, I can't hear. Well, in that case, I'd like to remind you that it's based on an article. 2 (2) 1 of the Act on the Parliament's Committee of Inquiry for Changes in the Personal Composition of the Committee of the Sejm shall be made by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2178 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 407, against - 8, with 15 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the supplementary selection to the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 55th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you like to speak again? Then please join the list. If there's no one else, I'm closing the list. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor. There you go. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u722	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my service, I often have the opportunity to participate in events, during which Polish young people present their talents in various fields of art. I noticed that the work that young artists put in their carers is of great importance to the artistic level. Usually, good bands, choirs, musicians, as well as artists of various disciplines are the subjects of people who are passionate about their time to support and develop sprouting talents. In cities and in larger, richer municipalities, the offer of cultural houses and other out-of-school facilities is relatively large, while in small towns young artists can rely mainly on a school teacher. In such a situation, the teacher usually spends a lot of his own free time helping young people. We should be glad that there are still people willing to pursue their life mission selflessly, but we should bow down to the system's support. If we consider the problem from this point of view, the question arises as to how much education should be provided to enable us to develop artistic sensitivity, a sense of aestheticism and to give rise to the development, and sometimes even to the discovery of our talents by a student. After all, this is essential for the quality of our environment, which will be created by the next generation. It is worth considering how much time is spent on education in this area in other European countries. Artistic education in the framework of a school obligation is usually conducted for 8 and 10 years. In different countries, different hours are spent on it. In those countries that have defined this dimension strictly, this is usually from about 40 to 300 hours per year. On average, in the European Union, it is around 70 and 80 hours a year, with a generally larger time span for the first 4 and 6 years of study. Against this background we look extremely pale, because in our schools there are no more than 40 hours per year. I would therefore like to propose a national discussion with teachers, artists, specialists in the education system, as well as those responsible for the finances of our country, so that we can develop a responsible, really viable system of artistic education for Polish children and young people. Let's set the right number of hours, provide the necessary facilities and resources. Without this, the future of aesthetics, what we are creating in Poland will depend solely on people of good will, and also simply on chance. Let us try to ensure our homeland not only a safe and prosperous future, but also a beautiful future, because beauty makes us better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-10-sejm-55-2.u723	Please. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 55th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. I would like to inform you that the 56th session of the Sejm will begin today, i.e. 11 January 2018 at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 25]]
