ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations: Agata Borowiec, Marcin Duszka, Jarosław Szlachetka and Sylvester Tulayev. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Jarosław Nobletka and Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 13, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13.30, - Health-- hour. 13.30, - Legal notice - hour. 14, - Health-- hour. 15, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: kryptovalut - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science - at 10 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: E-commerce and electronic economy market - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 16, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Chemical Industry and Parliamentary Group for Polish-Japanese Economic Cooperation - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 5:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u3	Thank you very much. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 2892. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. I would like to inform you that Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has submitted a formal request. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a break in order to clarify by your Marshal of the Sejm's Bureau on what legal basis you have decided that the meeting of the Health Committee cannot be held in the Sejm's building. [[Applause]] The Przemysl and Tarnobrzeg nurses are on their way to the Sejm. These are your neighbors, from your town. They've been starving since September 3rd. You refused the work of the Health Committee there, on the spot, in Przemyśl. Today, you refuse to work for a committee in the Sejm. I kindly invite all the heads of the parliamentary clubs to meet with the nurses to be held at an hour. 1:30 p.m. in room 14 of building G. The Minister of Health was also invited to this meeting. If the nurses weren't admitted to the Sejm, as we can predict, or the Minister of Health didn't show up at the meeting, I kindly inform the Minister of Health from this place that we're going to your office with the nurses. [[Applause]] Don't bother making cookies, they've been starving since September 3rd. And don't lock that steel gate in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u5	Unfortunately, I must point out to you that you have spoken irregularly. Let me remind you that by mouth. Article 2 184 formal proposals may concern, I stress, only matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. On the other hand, as far as your case is concerned, I refer you to the article. 199 in Section IV, which refers to the Sejm Chancellery. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on official time in the territory of the Republic of Poland (prints Nos 1852 and 1903), submitted by the Polish People's Party Association - Union of European Democrats, - Information from the Council of Ministers concerning irregularities and lack of supervision of the activity of the GetBack SA debt recovery company, notified by the Polish People's Party's Association of the European Union of Democrats, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the actions of the State authorities on irregularities in the activities of GetBack SA and the failure of KNF and UOKiK to react to reports of fraud in the company in December 2017, reported by the Poselski Club Modernzno, - Information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the reasons and validity of detention, legitimacy and registration by police officers of citizens, who, following the concerns of state and public affairs, ask during meetings of Members of the Law and Justice with voters questions about the controversial actions of the government and of the parliamentary majority, as reported by the Modern Posel Club, - Information to the President of the Council of Ministers on the causes, conduct and consequences of the Central Information Systems accident on 12 June 2018, which paralyzed the lives of citizens wishing to perform important official activities, submitted by the Modern Poselski Club, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation in which Ammono has the technology of producing gallium nitride crystals which are strategically important technology both economically and militaryly, as reported by the Kukiz Poselski Club15, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the planned actions of the Council of Ministers to initiate infringement proceedings by the European Commission in order to protect the independence of the Supreme Court in Poland, as notified by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the future of the mine As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We are voting on the proposal for an official time report from the committee. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 192 voted against - 218, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the request for information on irregularities and lack of supervision of the operations of the GetBack SA debt recovery company. Who of your Members is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's stuck in? 414 Members voted. The vote was 187, against 225, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information on the actions of the State authorities concerning irregularities in the activities of GetBack SA and the failure of KNF and UOKiK to react to reports of fraud in the company. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 193 against - 218, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the reasons and the validity of the detention by the police officers of citizens. Who of your Members is in favour of the request to complete the order for this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 177 voted against - 245, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the breakdown of the Central Information Systems. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 176 voted against - 248 and 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the request for information on Ammono. Who of you is in favour of accepting a request to complete the order for this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 224, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the request for information on the independence of the Supreme Court in Poland. Who of your Members is in favour of the request to complete the order for this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 228, and no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the request for information about the Krupinski mine. Who of your Members is in favour of the request to complete the order for this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 197, against - 225, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and some other laws. I would like to inform you that the amendment tabled at second reading has been withdrawn. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2843. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act No 2843, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 424 and 2 against and 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on public documents. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2845. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2845 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 418, no one was against, no one was against it, no one was against it. The Sejm passed a law on public documents. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2868. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2868 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 427, 1 against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting a motion for rejection at first reading of the draft Print Act 2852, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 240 voted against - 186, with two abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on assistance to independent individuals. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The question is raised by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law deals with helping people who are independent. Each day, the elderly and the infirm are arriving in Poland. Every day these people will grow more and more. This bill meets their expectations. She introduces assistants to independent individuals, she guarantees care in the place of residence. Each of us can be affected by independence or disability. Those who protested here in the Seym for 40 days are also waiting for this bill. Ladies and Gentlemen of the Law and Justice! You have a chance to reflect and, however, do not vote against it at first reading. I appeal on behalf of those who are independent. They're waiting for her. At least vote to direct her to further work. That is what I ask of you on behalf of all those who lie at home, have no help and are waiting for such solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u7	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Print Act 2771, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 224 against - 196, with three abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Civil Code Act, Family and Care Code, Code of Civil Procedure and on the amendment of other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is raised by Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is presented by Kukiz15 for the second time on behalf of 250 NGOs and parents of people with intellectual disabilities. The second time - two years ago and now - you are proposing that it be rejected at first reading due to legislative errors. In your explanatory statement, you are probably right to say that this is a complicated legal matter. We committed ourselves in 2012 in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to restrict the institutions of incapacity. Is it true that neither the government nor the state can afford subsidies to actually prepare a good legal project to limit the institution's intellectually disabled? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u9	Thank you. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like the High House to be aware of what happened in the previous vote and what is happening in the current vote. PiS rejects parliamentary projects, opposition projects that have been developed with different environments for a long time. The Affiliate Aid Act is a comprehensive solution that you rejected. There are 9 million seniors in Poland. In Poland there are 2 million people unable to exist independently. [[Voice from the room: Wasn't there eight years ago?]] We have prepared comprehensive solutions for them, such as a voucher, an assistant to an independent person, vacations for carers. Right now, you want to reject another project that concerns intellectually disabled people. I ask: Why do you not want to talk about these proposals? Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you rejecting them before they're sent to committee? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u11	Thank you, sir. That question was addressed to the applicants? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] And the applicants don't want to pass this bill? They do. Okay, then we proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Print Law No 2471, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 226 voted against - 197, with two abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2825. The question is raised by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We could say that a merry day has come today because this project has contributed to the fact that all the clubs in this room will support a project that will help many people, including people with disabilities. I personally have an insane satisfaction on this occasion, not even because it is a project of the Kukiz club15, not because I submitted it, but because it was the project that brought us all together. I wish such debates would always take place. I've been a Member for three years, and this is one of the better days I've had in this Seym. That's why I'd like to thank you very much. for voting in favour of this project - thank you on your behalf, thank you on behalf of the people who will be helped by this project. You're all right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u13	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2825 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2790. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2790 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 420, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production (amended) drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. We would like to return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. The additional committee report is in print No 2875-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u14	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Two amendments were tabled at the joint committee meeting yesterday. Both amendments were rejected. The Commission proposes to adopt an amendment concerning the Law on the Polish Press Agency in its proposed form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u15	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's printing number 2875. In an additional report, the committees present a motion for rejection and an amendment on which we will vote first. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting that this request be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the government. I wanted to ask: What are the reasons, the reasons why in this bill people are divided into better and worse? Please note that the proposed act assumes that employees who will appear in the Polish Press Agency as a result of various types of property changes will have the right to acquire shares of the Polish Press Agency and employees who have worked since the establishment of the Polish Press Agency have built the value of this agency and have no right to acquire shares. What are the worse ones, what have the employees of the Polish Press Agency sinned at, that they will not have the right to buy shares, and those who will appear after this change will have that right? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ask Grassia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u17	The question is raised by Maciej Małecki, Law and Justice. [[But there was a question for the government.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: you have no shame to be an activist of the Civic Platform and talk about privatisation in such a way. [[Applause]] [[A gunner? An envoy.]] That's where you were when you were robbed... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Is this the government?]] ...for the rhyme were you selling out Polish companies? Where was the Member? Ursus' employees are still unaccounted for today. In 2010 the Council - remember this date - you sold shares of Polish companies for more than PLN 22 billion. [[Voice from the room: It's not about the subject.]] This is what Minister Rafalska spends in one year on the 500+ programme. Was it 500+? [[It was for thieves.]] Where'd that money go? You're a part of selling tenements for $1,000. Evil for 140-year-olds. Shame! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u19	Mr Gawlik in what mode? [[Corrigendum.]] [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a law on amending the law on the Polish Press Agency, which gives rights to people who have never worked in this agency and deprives those powers of people who built the value of the Polish Press Agency. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Of course, I do not wish to engage in discussions with Mr Małecki, because this is not the level, not the class. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] If anyone has done anything wrong, this is why you are running a certain time to make the right decisions. And you're telling me all kinds of things right now that have nothing to do with what we're talking about here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u21	Minister? No. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 197, against - 225, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment, the applicant proposes the title of the Act to be replaced by the following: The Act of... on Privatization of the Polish Press Agency. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u22	Since 1990, when there was the first Act on privatisation of state-owned enterprises, employees of the company had the right to acquire shares free of charge. This right has been maintained until today, subject to the fact that they only had the right to acquire it when the company was privatised. Today we have the following situation: according to Article. 7 Act on the Polish Press Agency The Polish Press Agency is to remain a company with the sole participation of the State Treasury. This change makes the shareholders of the Polish Press Agency to become other people. This is nothing more than the privatisation of the Polish Press Agency, because the Polish Press Agency ceases to be a single-member company of the State Treasury. So what are you ashamed of? The point is to call this law adequate to its content. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u23	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 227, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Mieszkowski, the club of Modernzna, raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We need to ask a very important question from this stand: What are the real reasons for the commercialization of the PAP? What's behind this? Do you want one more media power, one more media tool in your hand? This agency, the Polish Telegraph Agency, which was established in 1918, which of course evolved in the course of the Polish Press Agency... [[In what way did she transform?]] ...to this day actually was an example of a very important, important public institution. Today you commercialize it and take it into your own hands. What's the reason? Why are you doing this? What are the real reasons for such a decision? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u25	Thank you. The Minister of Culture, Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You are trying to make an issue out of the normal situation, the situation of rationalising the functioning of companies of the State Treasury. It was after you that the company, which is an extortionist, the company that you deprived of the newspaper of Rzeczpospolita. You privatized her, [[Applause]] You sold it to your people, murdered a free paper. [[Yes, sir!]] This is the freedom of the press in your release. [[Applause]] And now we are tidying up after you and to strengthen the Polish National Press Agency, we are linking it to the company that remained after what you did. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I assure you that Poland needs a financially well-enhanced... [[Misiewicz.]] ...a serious press agency representing our state right. [[Applause]] [[You're right about the state.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] On the other hand, the insinuations of different people that we are dealing with privatisation are just a lie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u27	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2875, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[But, Marshal, don't you see?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Prime Minister, Prime Minister is talking about insinuations...]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Voting is underway.]] Wait a minute, I need to read the result. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The Marshal is afraid of the truth.]] 427 Members voted. The vote was 238 votes against - 179, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Give me the money...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Especially, Mr. Messengers, please don't shout, because it's not right. [[Maybe they'll wake you up a marshal!]] We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Priests. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2851-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendments to this draft law have been tabled to the Committee on Culture and Media. First of all, the project has been influenced, there is a proposal to amend the title of the Act: the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance, which affects the remaining three amendments, i.e. in the introduction and in the two articles. The Commission proposes that amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u29	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's printing number 2831. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose the title of the Act to give the wording to the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptible. Amendments 2 to 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 1 to 4 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 376, against - 28, with 12. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Applause]] Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Liberal and Social. [[Voice from the room: The Petr Triangle.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is not a single point in the Polish Constitution that says that we are a religious state. The Polish Constitution respects all religions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with you wiping yourselves with the heroism of the priests who helped during World War II... Why? Because you're setting it up for October 19th, which means you're going to use it strictly. and for political purposes only, before the election campaign. That's all you do. And secondly, my country, if you really want to do something for the Polish state, take action here and now, pedophilia in the Polish Church, [[Applause]] not to pass the next national days for priests. Pedophilia in the Polish Church. And to you, Mr. Prosecutor Peterovich, I say. You were the one defending a priest from Tylava who raped and molested a girl. It's you. Therefore, take care of what needs to be done, I will repeat: pedophilia in the Polish Church. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u31	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2831, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 356, against - 39, with 21. I state that the Sejm has passed a bill with an amendment, a bill on the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptibles. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government bill amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. The additional committee report is in print No 2874-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Rafał Weber to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm Committee on National Defence dealt with yesterday's examination of the amendments that were tabled during the second reading. In the vote block, the National Defence Committee rejected both amendments. Finally, he asks the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u33	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's printing number 2874. The amendments that have been tabled by the committee in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 4 of paragraph 3. 1. Amendments 2 to 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club. [[When are you gonna give me my gun permit?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project was intended to harmonise the command and command system of the army, and it is the other way around. This project is proof of your inability. The construction of the Territorial Defence Army has been underway for three years. These troops haven't been able to do anything in three years. And that's what you write into this bill. This is a project that confirms that you cannot create an effective type of military. We want to subpoena the Territorial Defence Army in a uniform system of command and command of the Chief of Staff of the General Staff. You want to keep the state where the WOT is a private army subordinate to the minister. Question for the Minister. When will WOT be able to act because during the committee meeting there were different dates, from 3, 4 to 8 years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's an important question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u35	Thank you. Ms Siarkowska is still asking the question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What we hear from the opposition is, unfortunately, a bunch of unbelievable statements that point to a lack of knowledge, any material knowledge. I don't know if you've gotten into it at all. Do you know that if we create a new kind of Armed Forces, it's not something that arises like a wand wave? That there are specific stages in which brigades are created in specific places of Poland? That the time it takes to achieve the status of readiness for the individual brigades is at least three years? It is, of course, related to the necessity of... [[Yeah, three years.]] ...with the time it takes to get the ability to act. It was the country that reduced the training capacity of the Polish army. [[It's been three years now.]] You have nothing to be ashamed of. If we had training centers, the whole process would go much faster. Now it's time to rebuild. Thank you very much. [[Bravo, Ania!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u37	Thank you, Member. The Minister wants to speak? Deputy Minister of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz. [[Voice from the room: But there was no question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a kind of restoration of normality in the Polish army. This bill is a dedication to the first soldier of what he deserves. The management and command system introduced by the 2014 reform failed and that is a fact. Today we have to change this system. Today the first soldier of the Republic will be the head of the General Staff. Nominally the senior officer, a four-star general, who was brought to the role of the auxiliary body by the 2014 reform, an advisory body of the Minister of National Defence, even though in international structures he acts as the one who represents the Polish army, the Polish army. Ladies and gentlemen! The Territorial Defence Army is a conscious intention and purpose, too, which was governed by Law and Justice when we created the fifth type of Armed Forces. Until this type of Armed Forces is fully formed, the Territorial Defence Army will be subject to the Minister of National Defence. This is a normal thing. in many armies of the world, that when new types of armed forces are created, they are usually subject to a person who does not directly command the entire army, but has a significant, crucial influence on what is happening in the army of a given country. The territorial defense forces will be under command of the Chief of Staff of the General Staff as soon as they are fully ready for battle. Whether this will take place in 2022, 2023 or 2025, the Minister of National Defence will decide to do so. It is the Minister of National Defence that we give the order to issue an order on this matter, it is the transfer of the Territorial Defence Army under the command of the Chief of Staff of the General Staff. Ladies and gentlemen! The Territorial Defence Army is the fifth type of Armed Forces, very important troops that are created according to the agreed timetable. From the eastern part of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the Podkarpacka brigades, Lubelska, podlaska, go in the western direction. The creation of the Territorial Defence Army will be completed in 2022. I repeat: the year 2022. But the moment when the Territorial Defense Army will have full operational capacity, full combat capability, and this is the period approx. 3 years from forming to gaining full capacity, i.e. the years 2024 and 2025, and this is the breakthrough when they achieve full operational capacity, full combat capability. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u39	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the amendments 1 to 5, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 169 voted against - 245, 6 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendment 6 was tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. In this amendment to the article. 11c applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Contrary to appearances, this is an amendment that needs to be quoted here, please, because in my deepest conviction it is possible to offend a Polish soldier's uniform by saying words, but also by certain legislative actions. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment was tabled by the Polish People's Party Posel Club supported by a Member from the Modern and two Members from the Polish People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to what this amendment sounds like, because this is really an insult to the Polish uniform. This applies to Article. 3. The territorial defence forces cannot be used against Polish citizens. [[Applause]] Tell me, my fellow Members, what could have been born in your head to make such an amendment. It's just a disgrace. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u41	We'll proceed with the vote. Who... [[Voice from the room: There's a question.]] Has the Member volunteered? Please report to the secretariat. Has a member been sent to the secretariat? [[Don't PiS Members have to report to the secretariat?]] Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern Club. Just, ladies and gentlemen, please answer the questions here to the secretariat. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Report to the administration office.]] And I would point out to Mr. Nitras that you shouldn't shout because I'm gonna have to take out the rules. [[But so are the Members of the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's an amendment. Polish People's Party, this is not a modern amendment, but I believe that this is the right amendment. I would like to tell you, Mr Kaleta, that the uniform of a Polish soldier was offended when a Polish soldier had to honor Misiewicz at state ceremonies. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Where did the idea for this amendment come from? We were already talking about this when the Territorial Defence Military Act was passed. From experience, from what you do with the services. Neither are the police designed to monitor citizens who are protesting the changes in the judiciary, just as you are monitoring the citizens of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] That is why it is so important to write down directly in the service laws what they are not allowed to do, just as the police are not entitled to torment people like Igor Stachowiak, which then the Minister of Justice and Minister Błaszczak sweeps under the rug. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u43	The question is raised by Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If Law and Justice divides people into a worse and better sort, then when the Territorial Defence Forces are formed, which are now under the special jurisdiction of the Minister of National Defence, my question is: Is the amendment, in which we clearly indicate that the Territorial Defence Forces will not be able to be used against Poles and Poles, this is a bad amendment? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] Polish society doesn't trust you, Polish society doesn't know why the Territorial Defence Army is being created. Do you think the Territorial Defense Forces, which have been trained for a week, will face these green men, the commandos who are specially trained? You want to send these people, our sons to the slaughter? I want you to think about why you're making the Territorial Defense Army at all. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]] If there's no record of that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That these armies cannot be used against Poles and Poles... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u45	Thank you, sir. Mr President, please take your seat. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very bad amendment... [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] ...the more that it's an amendment to the thesis... [[Yes.]] ...because if, ladies and gentlemen, we accept today the proposal of the Polish People's Party that the Territorial Defence Army cannot be used against Polish society, it will mean that other types of Armed Forces can be used. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're absolutely wrong. I'm directing words here to constitutional defenders. Art. 26 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland - you will allow the marshal to read this article in its entirety... [[Read it. What do you mean?]] [[The voice from the hall: Protectors of the constitution, you will never be.]] ...speaks unambiguously, states in the mouth. 1 unambiguously: Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland serve to protect the independence of the state and the indivisibility of its territory and to ensure the security and integrity of its borders. [[Yes, sir.]] Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2: The Armed Forces remain politically neutral and are subject to civil and democratic control. [[Bravo!]] Protectors of the Constitution! Do you think this document is wrong? Don't break the constitution of your amendments. [[Mr. Marshal, he insulted the constitution, offended the seriousness of the Sejm.]] [[The voice from the room: You break it.]] [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment could only be tabled by people who are still mentally stuck in the black age of martial law. [[Applause]] Because it was at that time, during communism and at war, that the Polish army was used against the Polish people. It's never gonna happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[They defend the German Constitution, not the Polish Constitution.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u47	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 6th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 166 votes against - 249, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, Members raise questions. Member Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so happy for you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You were offended by the marshal.]] Mr. Marshal! [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we are reforming the management and command system today and making it uniform. I also welcome this and thank you very much, Minister, for this, that the Territorial Defence Forces have time to form and complete themselves under the special supervision of civilian authority. This is a very important element - military oversight, civilian military oversight. I'm glad we're putting a lot of weight on this. However, I have a question, since the Head of the General Staff is being given new powers, are we already planning a reform of the General Staff today? I think she's necessary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second question is also concrete. What unit is planned to protect and defend objects? Is the one referred to in Article. 2, which is to be indicated by the Minister of National Defence? What kind of unit would that be? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u49	Thank you, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the hall: What does a guy like that know about the army?]] [[Only in Polish, please, not in German.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u50	Mr Tarczyński, yes, I will speak Polish, but German is a completely normal language. Prime Minister Morawiecki, as we know from the tapes of truth, very much respects the Germans and is a great supporter of Chancellor Angela Merkel. [[Applause]] I would first like to refer to what Minister Skurkiewicz said. He said he was directing his words to the constitutional defenders, which is us. So he just said completely that you guys are breaking the constitution. [[Applause]] So to argue that you will respect the Constitution in this respect is a lie at all. I mean, you guys are breaking the constitution, so even in this respect, you're gonna break the constitution. [[Voice from the room: Okay!]] This amendment, which we talked about earlier, was used to protect Polish society from how you use your services. Just like you used the police, just like you used the Secret Service for surveillance. And you know perfectly well, and you remember perfectly well that in the law and in the materials concerning the Territorial Defence Army it was written directly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the Territorial Defense Forces are to be armed with heavy weapons to pacify the social moods. That's why it's so important to protect yourself from it. [[Applause]] [[What's all this nonsense anyway?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u51	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We want to help rebuild confidence in the Polish army. The army did not maintain neutrality, the army was used by you during the Smolensk months. [[What?]] It wasn't a state ceremony, it was a private ceremony. And it was a scandal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's why we want to introduce solutions that... [[A private plane has fallen.]] ...will guarantee the neutrality of the Polish army. We want no private army subordinate to the Minister of National Defence. We want to introduce these solutions. You guys rejected the amendments. That's why we won't support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u53	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2874 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 256 voted against - 170, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft Cosmetics Act. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2880. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2880 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 417, against - 1 and abstained 2. The Sejm passed the Cosmetic Products Act. We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the Commercialisation of the State-owned public utility enterprise - Poczta Polska. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2871. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2871 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - no one, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Commercialisation of a State-owned public utility enterprise. We are returning to the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending the Act on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 2873. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 2873, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 296, against - 2, with 129 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. We are returning to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. Third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2858. The question is asked by Mr Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question that I already asked during my second reading. Is the Minister sure that excluding small enterprises producing animal-based food from very strict control and placing them in much less control will not put people's lives at risk? Meat is something that should be subject to very strict control. This law is undoubtedly good for small entrepreneurs. Now let's imagine that the meat dumpling producer doesn't do it the right way and the whole village will be poisoned. I understand that in the case of local structures, the assumption was good. But is it completely safe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u55	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Ardanowski, asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law concerns a specific form of economic activity on a relatively small scale, which is called small, local and limited activities. The name MOL is often used in capital letters. It is not that we endure food control and food safety. The system that operates in Poland guarantees that Polish food is, as we believe, tasty, healthy and safe, that it is our decoration. This food safety system, which meets all the standards of the European Union, also guarantees that it is safe food. Whether produced on a small scale or produced in large plants is safe food. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure this security. What, on the other hand, do we endure this bill? Excessive, excessive bureaucratic restrictions. For example. create this MOL, this small company, which would allow to supply mainly the local market, it was necessary to present a technological plan of the undertaking, which was subject to approval by district veterinarians, a very large, abundant documentation of the process that will take place, together with a description of what this company will want to produce in a few years. You have to be a genius or have a visionary approach to know what the company will produce in two or three years. What will be needed. We are putting up with this absolutely unnecessary mechanism of dependence on the consent of the district veterinarian and this correspondence, which makes even those who have already entered the MOL system wonder whether they will not come out of it due to excessive information and bureaucratic burdens. That's why we're putting up with this mechanism. On the other hand, we do not tolerate food safety control because those establishments that are reported and registered in the relevant register will be subject to both veterinary inspection and health inspection. There's no turning back from that security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u57	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2858 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on amending the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer it to the Health Committee and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the project in its entirety. If he's rejected, we'll settle the case of referral. The question is asked by Mr Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm terrified that a project like this could have been created at all. All you had to do was ask the pediatricians what the vaccination system looked like right now. It was enough to ask the Minister of Health, who knows perfectly well that 47 people who were not vaccinated against influenza died in Poland last year, and in countries that loosed the vaccination system, diseases such as measles, pertussis also appeared. Is that what we're talking about? This project threatens public health, threatens our children, threatens the elderly, really threatens all of us. Will we have to proceed, sir, over civil laws if a group of citizens gathers and writes that we must come here with guns and shoot us? Or that the earth is flat or equally frivolous? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u59	Thank you, Member. We must proceed, ma'am, because these are the statutory and statutory requirements, and the deadline for the procedure for this act is 11 October. Mr Joann Schmidt, near Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, during the debate, the arguments against this law were very strong, but the biggest club, the Law and Justice, declares further work in the committee on this law, stating that it is a citizens' project. I understand that you have accepted these assumptions, but let me remind you that you have thrown out almost 1 million signatures - it was also a citizens' initiative - when the referendum on education reform was to take place. Back then, you weren't looking at the consequences for our children, you were just following your campaign proposal. Today we are talking about a project that poses a real threat to the health and life of our children, and you want a debate in the Sejm. Organize such a debate, but with specialists, with experts. The applicant's representative drew attention to the problem, an important problem, because parents have concerns. But there are educational omissions, and that's what we're gonna do. Who is to debate in committee: Members, teachers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Lawyers, economists? This is the ridicule of the Polish Sejm in the 21st century. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u61	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The vaccination and vaccination systems have become a victim of their own success. Before I ask a question, I'd like to quote some statistics. Taking into account the period of 12 months from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, 13 234 measles have been reported in 20 European Union countries. Italy - over 3300, Greece - 3200, France - 2700 and Romania - 1350 reported the most. The number of cases may be reduced, especially in Romania. Of the 13,000. 30% were children under the age of 5 and 51% were children under the age of 5 years. persons over the age of 15. The highest incidence was observed in infants - 257 per 100,000. residents. My question: Can our country afford such a serious [[♪ The bell ♪]] Risk? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u63	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the applicant for this unfortunate initiative, including the PiS Members, who maintain an absolutely ambiguous position on this matter. Do you, perhaps, work together, have further requests of this kind? As you know, vaccinations were introduced in the 18th century. These were smallpox vaccinations. We're going back to the 18th century. I suggest we prepare an initiative against Copernicus' theory, because as you can see, the sun is circling the Earth. [[Applause]] against blood transfusions, the theory of evolution, against the iron railroad, which was described as the work of Satan and must be condemned, against lighting the streets at night, because it is against nature. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This whole idea is just an idiotic idea. [[Applause]] Idiots, ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion... [[Doctor! Where's the doctor?]] One group of idiots comes here and the other group of idiots backs them up. Why do idiots support idiots? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u65	I don't know if that was a question at all. [[Voice from the room: What about rabies vaccinations?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Quiet, please. I don't think that was the question. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw your attention to one thing, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about a civil project. A group of people come to us - more than 120,000 have been collected. signatures - with a particular problem. We're not talking about the merit of this bill at all at this point. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We talk, we talk.]] We just want to listen to these people because they come to us with some problems. And that's what we're here for -- to listen to people. And the state exhibits exceptional contempt and insolence. [[Voice from the room: Disdainful...]] The former Minister of Health at the debate yesterday, addressing the representative of the citizens' initiative, said: We do not want to listen. We don't want to hear it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we're for -- listening. [[Since when?]] That is why I think it would be good for the High House to support this project so that it can be examined in the Parliamentary Committees so that we can listen to people, what they really want... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] ...what they come to us with.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u67	The representative of the initiative committee wants to take the floor? No. [[Let's vote!]] First of all, I will put to the vote, as I said, a motion to reject this proposal. If he's rejected, we'll settle the case of referral. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject this proposal. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal...]] Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 2796, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 172 votes against - 230 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I would like to remind you that the proposal put forward by the Sejm Bureau is to refer the project to the Health Committee for consideration. The discussion requested additional referral to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're working on a curiosity bill abolishing the obligation to immunize our children. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] I address all moms and fathers, grandmothers and grandparents in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a debate yesterday. I want to inform you that the PiS is in hand with the nationals and Kukiz wants further work on a bill abolishing the obligation to immunize our children. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] Now, Minister Jak, who wrote letters to the Minister of Health and the Chief Health Officer on the vaccination obligation, pay attention, Minister Jak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Minister Jak, this is not about Oder Opole, this is about measles at school. You're a threat to our children. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u69	The question is asked by Mr Piotr Liroy-March, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I had something to say here, but this is how I listen to you and tell you, especially Mr. Arłukowicz: do you know what the biggest scandal is? That all these years we've had to look at your thieving, we have to look as a nation at all this... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...what you're doing. [[Applause]] 40 million people are looking at you, and you're telling me you don't want to start a discussion with over 100,000. Poles. And the scandal is that you're called "Citizen." This isn't about whether people are right or wrong. That's what committee and specialists are for, not you and the rest of them. You're not from the Civics, and you're never gonna be. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u71	Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would like to ask you a question before we take up the second committee on this project. The question is to the chief health inspector. I'd like him to come out here and confirm or deny two statistics. First - if we vaccinate less than 90% Children, it is a threat that infectious diseases will be reborn, that we will continue to witness them, diseases on a massive scale, epidemics. And the second statistic. Is it true that there are assumptions that in case of withdrawal from mandatory vaccination, only 70% Will the children be vaccinated? Is that true, Inspector? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u73	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The level of emotion reaches the zenith, and the level of discussion is so... [[Big money.]] ...that I got lost myself. I have this fundamental question: Does this project refer to the abolition of the possibility of vaccination in Poland, or does it refer to the abolition of the obligation? [[Voice from the room: In the first sentence, in the first sentence.]] Another question to the applicant's representative, a whole series of questions. Is it true that subjecting to judicial supervision the register of adverse vaccination reactions may increase the so-called. Implantability? Can written interview before and after vaccination increase the trust of parents in doctors and the whole health care system and consequently increase the prognosis? [[But it's now. It's working right now. You don't know anything about it.]] Will forcing the government to buy better, safer vaccines reduce the secretion or increase it? Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion here is starting to run in some bad circles. Let's discuss this in substance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u75	Thank you. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is a threat. There'll be an epidemic if it's applied. And I have a question for all the Members of the Law and Justice who want to vote in favour of this project. Which one of you wasn't vaccinated when he was a kid? Whoever wasn't vaccinated when he was a kid, raise your hand. [[Voice from the room: Everyone.]] You've all been vaccinated. And you want to take out our children's vaccines. You want to cause an epidemic in our country. There's no permission to do that. [[It's not like we're voting on this, woman.]] Listen to the experts, listen to the teachings, not the hustlers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Listen to what's going on here, in this room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u77	Thank you. Some questions were addressed to the representative of the citizens' initiative committee, Ms Justyna Anna Sochy. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Does he want to speak? I can't see. Would you like to speak? There you go. [[A voice from the room: Say hello to the lady.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Messengers and Members! First of all, I'm gonna ask you why... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[She was supposed to answer.]] The rhetorical question: Why is the messenger who invites pharmaceutical companies to the Sejm to advertise flu vaccine? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, bravo!]] Whose interests are represented by: children or vaccine producers? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I have another rhetorical question: Where were you yesterday? There were a dozen Members here. Well done for those Members who were here. I would like to thank you very much, Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] Mr. Marshal! Can these countries be reassured? I would like to express my sincere thanks for the respect that we appreciate, on behalf of Polish parents and their severely injured children, Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, for the fact that, although this is such a difficult and controversial subject, there will be dialogue and debate, a debate which has so far been censored. Ladies and gentlemen! I was not able to present 20 pages of my speech here yesterday, so I am giving a link to the website: www. stopnop.com. ♪ I'm gonna be like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, yes, sir.]] There you will read what Polish parents have to say. You are here to invite experts, not only those supported by Big Pharma, but those who defend our children's products. [[The earth is flat!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Whose interests defend health offices in Poland? Ladies and gentlemen! Here's the handwriting and the results of the multiple vaccine test. Did these studies order the Polish offices, the main pharmaceutical inspection, or the mother? The mother whose child was dying on her hands was inert, and she's been rehabilitating until now, she's ordered the vaccine to be tested in an independent lab. The results say that the vaccine contains twice as much aluminium as the manufacturer predicts in the summary of product characteristics. Minister Pinkas! Yes, there's aluminum in the formulation of this vaccine. There were twice as many in this vaccine. Where are the Polish offices to withdraw this vaccine? She is still being served to Polish children, although the complaint was filed on 9 August. Where are the Polish offices that defend the safety of our children? That is why we need this debate, this dialogue. The point is that scientists who treat our children who are suffering from vaccination complications may attend the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about the fact that you're afraid of the epidemic, that it's going to drop. I will tell you one thing: the worst anti-advertisement, the worst black vaccination campaign is the responsibility of vaccination in Poland. Therefore, in Poland, against the background of Europe, the number of children vaccinated falls most. There is scientific evidence for this in the justification of our project. Didn't you read the justification for the project? Didn't the PO and Modern Clubs, their reporting Members, read the project and the justification? Then why do they get paid? What is the Polish nation paying you for? [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] For not reading citizens' projects?! [[Applause]] [[Don't shout here.]] I represent determined parents and even if I shout now, I have the right to do so, because these parents will no longer patiently endure the fact that their voice about changing the system to a safer one is ignored. Again, I stress: the project is not anti-vaccine. He aims to introduce rules such as in 20 European countries where vaccinations are voluntary, where parents are respected, where in the event of an epidemic or epidemic, there are tools in the form of isolation, quarantine and public vaccination. Our project doesn't change that. If you're worried about immunity, you should know that out of 30 million adults, 1% are vaccinated. 1%, 300,000. People. Vaccinations must be repeated, provided by the manufacturer in the characteristics. I particularly recommend reading to doctors who should know the contents of the vaccine leaflets, and it turns out they do not know them. It's a drama. Why doesn't the E.R. take care of it? Can such a doctor heal, and is his visit safe for his patients? I doubt it. Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly present to you what this project is about, answering the question of Paweł Skutecki. This is above all an opportunity for parents to report adverse parental reactions. This is the safety I was talking about. If a severe adverse vaccine reaction is reported and there is a quality defect in the vaccine, it is withdrawn. There's no surveillance now. Do you feel safe in vaccinating your children? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I'm talking to you as parents. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes!]] There is no supervision of the safety of vaccinations. The system must give parents the opportunity to report adverse vaccination reactions. This is provided for in the EU Directive - the right to report adverse drug reactions. This is the introduction of normality in Poland. This is nothing anti-vaccine, as the media has suggested, funded by pharmaceutical companies. In addition, it is a thorough examination of qualifications, the need for the doctor to note the methods of exclusion provided for by the manufacturer. Do you know that all Polish newborns are now vaccinated without exclusion of contraindications? The producer says you must not vaccinate a child who has immunodeficiency, a child who is in distress. Such children are now vaccinated in Poland, and the complications of these vaccinations are treated only by parents, because there is no compensation fund. Ladies and gentlemen! Your doctor should give you information. This is the right of the patient - the right to give informed consent to medical treatment. After all, this law was introduced by the Nuremberg Code. This is a fundamental human right - the right to express informed consent to medical procedures. Therefore, information is needed. Our project will make this information available. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very difficult to deny in a few minutes everything that is said about us both by the media and - as it turns out - by institutions that should protect Polish children. Again, I stress: if you want your parents' trust back, this project has to go to committee. Otherwise this rebellion will rise, otherwise the number of vaccinations will rise record. It's exactly the opposite of what the media is suggesting, exactly the opposite. Yesterday I had the opportunity to present publications that say that the introduction of a vaccination obligation causes rebellion, irritation and a retreat from vaccination. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! I ask Members to remain silent. Do they even listen to what I say on behalf of thousands of Polish parents? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Not all of them.]] [[We're listening. Talk to me.]] [[The earth isn't flat.]] Yesterday they were here with us, at the gallery, doctors. You say doctors say you don't vaccinate sick children and supposedly have an obligation to protect them. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland there is such a system that in practice only the death of a child is a contraindication to vaccination. [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]] They are vaccinated children with leukemia, they are vaccinated children during antibiotic therapy, children who were born with 2 points on the Apgar scale. [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]] This is the daily practice of Polish families. Who's left with the problem? Who needs to treat this child? There's no compensation funds. My parents are left alone with this. Listen to the doctor's voice. They have a lot to say, but so far for asking questions, for any criticism of the system - not vaccinations, the system that is in Poland - they stand before medical courts. I mentioned their names here yesterday. Dr. Aneta Borczyk-Kotwas, Dr. Dorota Sienkiewicz, Dr. Andrzej Majkowski, Dr. Hubert Czerniak, Dr. Jerzy Jaśkowski, Dr. Katarzyna Bross-Walderdorff - they all stood before the medical court for defending children with vaccination complications, for wanting to postpone vaccination of children who clearly suffer from these complications. Will you take responsibility for what will be the result of continuing this sick system that is now? Did you know that in 10 years the number of infant hospitalizations increased by 50% ? Do you know that every fourth child is chronically ill today? Do you know that as far as preschool children are concerned, their disability has increased by 60% over a few years. ? Do you know that the rate of diagnosis of autism and autism diseases has increased by 350% over 9 years? Will all Polish children be sick in a few years? They will depend on a system that is now parasitismizing them, because the medical community, let's face it, benefits from disease. That's the truth. Is that the intention of the General Medical Council? Listen to the voice of doctors who say that Polish children get sick after vaccines. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's enough.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You often recall an example of flat soil. And I'll tell you what. A country in which fundamental patient and human rights are not respected is a country in which opposition Members, some of the opposition, believe in flat ground theory. [[Applause]] P.O. and Modern. [[Game in the O.R.]] Read the patient rights bill. Read the Nuremberg Code. Read the bioethical convention. I'm just a mom. A mom who came here to protect her children, too, so that they could live in a safe country. Censor will lead to even greater rebellion. Censor will lead you to have real anti-vaccine movements that will combat vaccinations. We're not an anti-vaccine movement. We are in the interest of all Polish families in which children are getting sicker and the offices asked by parents of children affected to present their research, vaccine safety and statistics comparing deaths, e.g. Sudden cot deaths within 4 weeks of vaccination and no, they say they don't have these tests and they don't have these statistics. So on what basis is the benefit and loss balance of the vaccination programme established? On what basis do you know the costs of Polish families due to vaccination complications? There's no record of that. So no one has the right in Poland at the moment to say that the preventive vaccination system in Poland is safe. There's absolutely no reason to say that. This should be followed by the Health Committee and the Family Committee. So that I appeal to you, my fellow Members, regardless of your personal beliefs, prejudices, occupations or anything else, vote in favour of proceding this project so that we can finally start talking, because without dialogue, without compromise, it will not be better in this country and Polish children will not be healthier. Even if you believe that my environment is harmful, you have a duty as citizens to listen to us. [[Yes, sir.]] And for that, I appreciate the ruling party. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Does Mr. Arłukowicz want censorship? [[Voice from the Chamber: How did he vote?]] Does he want us to go back to World War II? I don't expect an answer, it was a rhetorical question. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, given the fundamental civil rights that are respected in 20 European countries, emphasising the patient's rights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which originated in medical law after World War II, when experiments were carried out on people... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...strengthening the rights of the family, because the family is the future of this nation... [[Voice from the room: Time passes!]] ...apelling: vote in favour of the welfare of Polish children.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u79	Thank you, ma'am, the applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u80	Thank you very much. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Inspector, Inspector!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u81	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the request for further referral. [[Game in the O.R.]] Who among you is in favour of the request for additional referral of the draft law from print No. 2796 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 252 against - 158, with two abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection (Prints No. 2351, 2814 and 2814-A) - third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2814-A. I ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u82	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! The Parliament held its 68th meeting on 12 September this year. again addressed the draft law in print No 2814 to the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The committees at the joint meeting on 2 October, both the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, ask the High Sejm to reject Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4 and recommend the adoption of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u83	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments tabled. [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: But what is it? We're talking labour inspection.]] All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on State Labour Inspection. In the first amendment to Article. 44a applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 222, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 44a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 226, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 44a applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a and 3b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 226, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 44a applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 188, against 227, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2814 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 399 against - 8, with 13 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Appointment of an Ombudsman for the rights of the child (prints 2849 and 2884). High Izbo! According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Act on the Ombudsperson for the Rights of the Child, the Sejm shall appoint an ombudsperson for the rights of the child with the consent of the Senate. Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska has been submitted to the position of the Ombudsman. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present the candidacy of Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska, presented by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u84	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I would like to present the opinion of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the proposal to appoint an ombudsman for the rights of the child, in print 2849. The joint committees met at their meeting on 2 October to give an opinion on the applicant's application to the Office of the Ombudsman. During the meeting, the proposal was examined, Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska was nominated and a discussion was held. The members of the committee listened to the candidate's answer to the questions asked. As a result of the vote, the candidate obtained the required majority of votes and thus the approval of the committee. The joint committees gave a positive opinion on Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska's candidacy for the position of the Ombudsman. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u85	Thank you very much. Representatives of the clubs came to the floor. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Objection. Then this objection will be voted out. We're gonna vote on the proposal I made. Who among you is in favour of the decision that the Sejm should listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and wheels, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. The vote was 241, against - 152, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u86	High Izbo! Mr Marshal is extremely gracious: a debate about the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, a constitutional function - 2 minutes to speak. Okay, so I'm going to say this by quoting the statement of the candidate proposed by the PiS to the spokesperson of the child's rights from the interview given to the Television Republic this calendar year: Abortion is the problem of children whose development defects were detected before birth, it's a small group. Most children who require care for the rest of their lives are children who have acquired disability either during childbirth or after childbirth, that is autism, cerebral palsy, premature pregnancies. These are very difficult things, and I don't know, I think there should be euthanasia here. This is a quote from a candidate for a child's attorney. [[Disgusting.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you really want such a person to be the defender of the weakest citizens of our country? Do you really want such a person to represent children and their interests? Do you really want to give this person a positive opinion? [[You're lying, Magda. You have no argument.]] Will you once again hear the positive opinion of the same Member who had us vote for a lying person a few weeks ago, using a title without scientific authority and committing plagiarism? Think about it. It's about the youngest citizens. Consider this in your conscience, Marshal Terlecki, Minister Rafalska, each of you. Can anyone with such views perform any public function in our country? It's not even against children anymore, it's against people. It's inhumane. Our club will vote absolutely against this candidacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u87	Thank you, Member. Twenty seconds left. [[That's enough for me.]] The club split the voice... [[I wanted to ask...]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Mr President, I have not yet given you the floor. The club divided the vote into two members. Here you go, Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u88	I'm good with a few dozen seconds, 25 seconds, Mr. Marshal. We're talking about children's rights. There was a vote just now on the vaccine. I would like to ask: Where was the Minister of the Family? Where was the Minister of Education? Why is Mrs. Rafalska... [[Applause]] You left the room. I ask as a parent: Where were you during this vote when we defended children's rights? Where have you been? I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u89	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Terlecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We have just heard from a Member of the Civic Platform. [[Darling.]] I don't know if it's stupid or extreme and insolent, arrogant manipulation. [[And in what mode?]] You have read a piece of the text and you have the audacity to tell the public that this is the opinion of a candidate for a child's attorney. I will read the whole sentence: here are very difficult things and here of course it should, well, I don't know, postulate euthanasia if we can't afford to support these people. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Of course, the point is that we should support these people, not... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Sit down, you old marshal!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u91	Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor. [[Corrigendum.]] Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, Modern Posel Club. There you go. [[But the Member has the right to be corrected. It's a shame you're not bothered by Marshal Terlecki.]] Please don't disturb me in the proceedings. There you go. [[Voice from the room: There's no name.]] Mr Nitras, I draw your attention once again. [[Punishment for Nitras.]] [[Do you know how this works for me?]] [[You make too much money.]] Excuse me, ma'am. Mr Nitras, I draw your attention under Article. 175. Be serious in the Sejm area. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u92	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have no doubt that the existing functioning of the Ombudsman of children's rights has been proper and has properly secured the interests of children, as Mr Kaczyński has often learned from this. It would be good for a candidate to do his job in such a spirit. But I don't know, I can't see, I can't understand a thing here. Our candidate does not see the need for a new code for the 1964 family code. He also sees the threat of homosexual fashion. I'd like you to state whether you're a protector, or do you also think that these are corruptive tendencies. I don't know how to read it, but first of all, I don't agree to that statement. I don't really know what you think about protesting the parents of people with disabilities either. Once you're in favour, twice you say the opposite. And you don't mind if the kids suffer a little. That's what the candidate said. In addition, your candidate did not meet with other clubs asking for support. I'm saving time, Mr. Marshal, for Monica Rosa's friend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u93	Thank you very much. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Circle of Liberals... Monica Rosa, yes, there you go, the Liberal Social Circle. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no. We still have time.]] [[Not yet.]] Excuse me, the Modern Club. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement quoted by Mrs Kochan, Mr Terlecki, is clear. No money, it's euthanasia. And that's the point of that statement. [[The voice from the hall: No, it's not true, don't lie.]] What do I miss so much about a candidate for a child's attorney? What do I miss with each of you and each of your ministers? A clear statement on the systemic concealment of pedophilia, paedophile priests in the Church. That's not an expression. [[Applause]] This statement, this position and action I expect from each of you. [[Don't break up families.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u95	Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15, is asking for the floor at the moment. [[Don't bounce your husbands.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seemed to me that the worst thing to do was to eat salsa and mirabelle, but the worst thing to do is just help out in a way that wasn't very good. PiS Members, withdraw your candidacy because this is an outrageous situation. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Mr. Terletsky's question is clearly rhetorical. The budget cannot afford not to keep such children, so there will be euthanasia in Poland. This is an outrage. Such a candidate should not be considered at all. [[Knock on the head.]] This isn't manipulation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Manipulation is what you do. [[Don't lie to me.]] This is ridiculous. A state that is simply professed to be Christians, Catholics, supports such candidacy. This is an outrage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] [[Voice out of the room: Fall back!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u97	Mr Kornel Morawiecki, near Free and Solidarni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child was a Polish initiative which was addressed in the UN at the end of the 1970s. This convention has been adopted by the United Nations for more than 10 years, but at the beginning this Polish project was not only about the rights of the child, but also about obligations towards society, family and parents. I would ask the Ombudsman to consider this matter of children's responsibilities in her work on the rights of the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u99	Thank you. Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus, near Liberal and Solidarnia, I apologize, rather Liberal and Social.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How much time do I have? Two minutes. You're probably sitting here somewhere, at the auditorium, Mrs. Agnieszko Dudzińska, which is why I'd like to read to you what Iwona Hartwich, your colleague, wrote on Facebook, a message addressed to you. I quote: Shame on you, Agnieszka. I am shocked and disgusted by Agnieszka Dudzińska, the mother of a disabled child who has repeatedly supported our protests, talked about them, advised us, supported and supported our demands, and now such a change? I don't understand. Remember that. You also wrote something on your Facebook that you don't understand the postulates of those boys who are protesting. You are probably the future spokesperson for the rights of the child, these are not boys. These are men, Mr. Jakub Hartwich and Mr. Adrian Glinka. These aren't your kids. [[Voice from the hall: Candidates on councilmen.]] And another thing. You said homosexuality was fashion. No, ma'am, homosexuality is not fashion, it's biology. [[It's a disease.]] Whether we're born homosexual or heterosexual is biology. [[Disease.]] If a candidate for a child's attorney says something like that, then we have another curiosity thing in this Seym. I have a request for you. I wrote a letter to the Ombudsman last week or this week, an invitation to the debate, which will take place on 8 October here in the Seym, about pedophilia in the Polish church and the protection of children - the victims of paedophiles priests. If you become an advocate for the rights of the child today, I understand that you will be present in this debate as a representative of the Ombudsman. Seym, October 8th, 6:00 p.m. 13. I hope you will. [[Applause]] [[Pathology is healing.]] [[The voice from the room: Yeah, there's something about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u101	Thank you. Member Robert Winnicki. Only, sir, you have 49 seconds. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Terlecki! What you quoted is shocking. The point is, children need to be killed if they don't have the money to treat them. It's horrible. If that's what your spokesperson said, then I demand that your candidate for spokesperson come out here, explain herself and explain why she didn't address the question of eugenic abortion at the hearing of the committee. Why didn't she address this and guarantee voters the protection of the traditional system of values, the protection of children's rights to life from conception? She refused to respond to this at the committee meeting. The truth is that we probably learned today from the Member and from the Marshal, and also from what the Ombudsman said, that we have a pro-abortion candidate for the Ombudsman of the child's rights in the performance of the PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u103	Thank you. The discussion is closed. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoints the Ombudsman by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of choosing Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. The absolute majority is 200. It was 194 against 192 and there was 12. I state that the Sejm did not elect Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska to be the spokesperson for the rights of the child in the absence of an absolute majority of votes. [[Joy in the room, long-lasting applause]] As the Sejm did not choose the Ombudsman, the selection procedure will be carried out again. [[Voice from the hall: Terlecki, hands off the children.]] [[You're such a leader.]] We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 2892). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...of the Seniors Convention's opinion, has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. [[Child Rights Ombudsman Marek Michalak leaves the room, some Members get up, clap and chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!]] Would any of you like to speak? Mr Richard Terlecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 paragraph 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be formally requested to amend the voting procedure by holding a separate vote on the change in the personal composition of the Committee on National Defence and a separate vote on the change of personal storage in the other Sejm committees. This is Seym printing number 2892. [[A head of the PiS club is a treasure. Just keep your hands off the kids.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u105	A proposal has been tabled for a separate vote on the proposal to amend... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because then none of you will know how to vote. Listen to me. A request was made for a separate vote on the proposal to change the personal composition of the National Defence Commission. I will put this proposal to the vote. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[Voice from the room: There is opposition.]] We'll proceed to the... [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote against may be admissible. I don't see the need, because the conclusion is clear. [[There's a need.]] [[But you're not the Seym.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Can I have the motion again?]] 413 Members voted. 227 voted against - 182, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on changes in the composition of the National Defence Committee. [[Question before the vote.]] Who among you is in favour of choosing this committee by Zdzisław Gawlik and Krystyna Skowronska, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 183, against 225, with seven abstentions. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. We proceed with the vote on the whole... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. [[There's voices.]] [[Voice from the room: They are recorded in the voice.]] There are questions before this vote. Member Józef Brynkas, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! I know you're upset, but my name is Brynus. I would like to thank those Members of the Law and Justice who were not afraid and voted against the candidacy, although it may cost them either a place on the list or a financial penalty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u107	Sir, but... I would like to draw Mr Brynkas' attention to the fact that we are at a different point, so ask questions about this point. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I had asked you a question before the vote that had already taken place. Earlier, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, a formal motion... Mr Konwiński wanted to object. You don't follow the rules you imposed on us. How are we supposed to work if you're the one guarding the rules and you're not following them? It is not possible to work this way, that one minute before the vote on changes in the personal compositions of committees, which have always been a consensus, the gentleman comes out and dictates to us what the compositions of the parliamentary committees will look like. Your authority is not so great as to tell us what Member has the right to work in what committee. [[Applause]] You're attached to the children, you're attached to the Members. Let people do their jobs. It was never in the Seym that someone was blocking someone's entrance to the committee until you came here. You are the first term of office. You don't know what parliamentaryism is. [[Stay away from that envoy.]] You should learn that. And one more thing. Get your hands off the kids. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u109	Mr... I would like to draw Mr Nitras' attention to the fact that in this way, with your arrogant speech, you have violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: The Lord is arrogant.]] And I would like to inform all of you and remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, questions and formal requests should be submitted to the secretariat of the meetings, here, to those States that serve the Sejm. We proceed with the vote on the full proposal of the Sejm Bureau on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 2892, except for changes in the composition of the National Defence Committee, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 233 voted against - 174, with 12 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 01 hours 11 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 38. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2019 (print No 2864). I ask the Minister of Finance, Ms Teresa Czerwińska and the Undersecretary of State, at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tomasz Robaczyński, to present the justification for the draft budget law for 2019. Minister, I also have a question: Are you entirely alone, or will you also be performing Mr Tomasz Robaczyński?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u110	No, I'm gonna perform. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft budget law for 2019, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 25 September this year. I do this with full responsibility and satisfaction, because it is a good budget for Poland. It is an exceptional honor to present this draft budget law to the High House today, especially since it falls on the round 250th anniversary of the adoption of the first Polish budget law, which took place in 1768. At the same time, it was the first act of this kind in continental Europe. Therefore, I strongly hope that the parliamentary debate on the government project presented will be factual and substantive, after all, the budget of the state is our common good, and that the result of the work of ladies and gentlemen of Members will be a budget bill that will serve all Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! Can the state budget, on the one hand, be a secure, stable budget, implement the demands put forward by society, take care of its welfare and security and, on the other hand, include the necessary pro-development impulses that are necessary to sustain economic growth in the long term? Can the budget reconcile these two seemingly opposite qualities? Maybe he should, in my opinion. The 2019 budget is doing exactly what I would like to convince the High House of. First of all, I will briefly point out to the High House the main principles which were the basis for drawing up the State budget for 2019. First of all, I would like to stress that the budget has been prepared, designed in compliance with fiscal rules, ensures the necessary stability of the security of the public finance sector and both meets the fiscal rules of the Public Finance Act and respects those benchmarks that are relevant to the nominal deficit and government debt. The application of a stabilizing expenditure rule combined with the effects of the efforts and measures taken to seal the tax system and rebuild tax revenues, with the continuing economic prosperity, has allowed the state deficit to be set at the lowest level in the next year since 2009. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the sustainability of the public finance sector is assessed not only through the result of the state budget of the strict sense, but through the sector's prism, we are forecasting that the general government deficit, i.e. the result determined by the European methodology, will be 1.7%. GDP, which is significantly below the 3% reference values defined by fiscal rules. The favourable macroeconomic situation involving economic growth while the return of moderate inflation will, as I have already mentioned, help to achieve this result. However, it would certainly not be possible without extensive action taken by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. In particular, I am referring to measures to seal the tax system, reduce the VAT and CIT gap. These measures, which have been taken to rebuild the stream of tax revenue, have a tangible effect. Suffice it to say that next year we are forecasting nearly PLN 180 billion in revenue from taxes on goods and services and almost 35 billion in corporate tax, which means an increase of 46% and 36% respectively. in relation to the beginning of the term of office, i.e. 2015. These numbers, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. The gasification of the tax system has become a fact. [[Media, Minister, Media.]] The fact that economic growth does not always go hand in hand and automatically translates into a significant increase in tax revenues also shows historical data - if we take into account the 2008-2015 period when the average real economic growth was 103.2%, VAT revenue increased by 21% and CIT revenue decreased by 5%. It is all the more important to know and know how to use this economic growth - on the income side, eliminate fraud and pathologies that digest the tax system, thus ensuring a level playing field and increasing the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular SMEs, which are, after all, dominant, far-reaching... [[That's why they stopped investing, they care so much.]] ...most companies in Poland, and on the expenditure side, try to give priority to expenditure giving impetus to economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft budget law for 2019 had to first ensure the necessary sustainability of public finances, which is the cornerstone of the development of each economy. And we've managed to achieve that. Nevertheless, the State's financial plan, the budget, reflects the objectives and assumptions of the state's socio-economic policy and is the main tool for its implementation. It should therefore be pointed out that its construction was designed for further socio-economic development of Poland. However, we must not forget the role that a country has to fulfil in a market economy, which has three important economic functions, namely: it increases efficiency - among other things. by promoting competition and the provision of public goods; supports justice - through the use of taxes and expenditure programmes aimed at redistribution of revenue to selected, specific groups and communities; supports macroeconomic stability and growth, among others. by taking action to reduce unemployment and stimulate growth through fiscal policy and money regulation. The directions for economic development of Poland for the coming years are indicated by the Strategy for responsible development. It calls for an economic development model based on inclusive, socially and territorially sustainable growth. Its main objective is to create the conditions for increasing the income of residents while increasing cohesion in the social, economic, environmental and territorial dimensions. This strategy is in line with government-friendly growth-friendly fiscal policies. I am convinced that the 2019 draft budget will find a safe balance in the search for economic development pathways - the balance between the sustainability of public finances and the needs and expectations of society, as well as the need to ensure long-term economic growth, i.e. those incentives, those stimulants that should be included in this budget. [[Applause]] So far, policies aimed at maintaining such a balance have proven and have tangible results. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like very briefly, given the time frame, to present some macroeconomic assumptions or parameters which are the basis for the preparation of the state budget. By building this budget, we were guided by the most likely macroeconomic scenario, perhaps even with a certain amount of conservatism, which makes the budget for the next year real, even in the face of more difficult times and changes, risks in the world economy, which are slowly on the horizon. As regards basic macroeconomic parameters. As far as gross domestic product is concerned, we are assuming a real GDP growth rate of 3.8% domestic demand, including private consumption with an increasing trend in gross fixed capital expenditure, will remain a key factor for growth. As far as the labour market is concerned, we are assuming a continuation of positive trends in this area. We expect that the unemployment rate will also fall further in parallel to the continuing economic prosperity. It may be less dynamic than in previous periods, but we estimate that the unemployment rate recorded at the end of 2019 will fall to 5.6%. Improving the situation of households will also result from a systematic increase in average wages in the national economy. We are forecasting that in 2019 this indicator will develop at the level of PLN 4765, i.e. an increase of 5.6%. in relation to the current year. At the same time, we expect relatively, as I have already mentioned, low inflation pressure, 2,3% - the CPI index, which is slightly below the inflation target forecast by the National Bank of Poland, which will also have its translate into a positive result in terms of real wage dynamics in the economy. So much in short, when it comes to completely basic macroeconomic parameters. Now I would like to briefly present the basic budgetary parameters, i.e. revenue, expenditure and basic categories. The draft budget law for 2019 forecasts revenue of the state budget of PLN 388.6 billion, expenditure of PLN 416.1 billion. Hence, the maximum specified deficit of the state budget for the next year is PLN 28.5 billion. At the same time, the GG deficit, i.e. general government, is 1,7% GDP, which is, as I have already mentioned, significantly below the reference values laid down by fiscal rules. We are forecasting, ladies and gentlemen, these revenues of the state budget, as I mentioned, at PLN 388.6 billion, i.e. by PLN 20.2 billion more than expected implementation of the revenue of the state budget in the current year, including tax revenue, i.e. 359.7 billion, i.e. 8.5% more than the Budget Act for 2018, and compared to the beginning of the term of office, to the base year, i.e. 2015, will already be PLN 100 billion more tax revenue, i.e. an increase of almost 39 percent. Non-tax revenue is PLN 25,7 billion, which means an increase of 17% compared to the current budget law, with the assumption that in 2019, similarly to this year, no payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland is planned. The projected increase in the revenue of the state budget in 2019 will be generated by two important factors, namely the economic growth we have assumed and the return of moderate inflation, and on the other hand the result of the already implemented and currently prepared systemic changes. In addition to the macroeconomic situation, the level of tax revenue in 2019 will be affected by the continuation of the activities we are carrying out on the part of the recovery of the stream of tax revenue, the sealing of the tax system. Among these actions I will mention only the most important, i.e. the introduction of a split payment mechanism in the current year, where the effects will largely be observed in 2019, the introduction of a bill on the electronic system of the clearing house, which aims to counter the use of the financial sector for tax fraud, the start of the implementation of the electronic tax cash register system on-line, and the introduction of the obligation to report tax schemes. In addition to these changes aimed at strengthening the revenue side of the state budget, as I mentioned at the beginning, changes are planned in support of entrepreneurship, innovation, which is the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. I would like to mention here the introduction of a new 90% CIT rate for entrepreneurs whose revenue generated in the tax year does not exceed EUR 1.2 million, the introduction of incentives to invest capital in companies and the modification of tax preferences in support of innovation. I would also like to draw the attention of the High House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a result that is very important. Namely, asking the High House to adopt a budget law, I would like to stress that it is a rational budget, with a high degree of foresight, not deprived of social sensitivity, which in parallel will support economic potential. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u111	Thank you very much. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 116 and 5 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister of Finance! Ministers! I have the honour and honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft budget law for 2019. After a detailed presentation of the budget by the Minister of Finance Prof. Teresa Czerwinska, it is difficult to identify new distinctions of this best in the last 10 years of the budget, good for Poland and for Poles. The budget is not only an orderly set of numbers, but a quantitative emanation of the government's strategy for economic and civilization development of the country, the security of Poles, their real needs and expectations, and even dreams. All Poles, not elites or special castes. Poles of all ages, inhabitants of cities and villages. The 2019 budget presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government is a real budget based on the most likely macroeconomic scenario, a responsible budget, which fits into the economic realities and expectations of Poles. A conservative but stable growth of gross domestic product of 3.8% is planned in the budget even when global rating companies forecast GDP growth for Poland by more than 4%. The main factor for economic growth is consumption demand, with a historically low unemployment rate of 5.6%. The government's priority objective is to maintain further economic stability at the same time. This requires budgetary policy to be pursued within the framework of the need to comply with the stabilisation expenditure rule. Poland, as a member of the European Union, is obliged to achieve so-called at a certain rate. the medium-term budgetary objective. In the construction of the 2019 budget, account was taken of the development of tax revenues of the state budget in 2018, determined by good economic situation, good labour market situation in terms of employment growth and the growth of the square, which implies the government's budget revenue from the PIT tax. The increase in revenue in the draft State budget for 2019 from PLN 355.7 billion to PLN 388.6 billion in 2019, i.e. by 9%, will allow the implementation of an ambitious government programme. Growth in these revenues is affected by economic growth while moderate inflation is returning and, on the other hand, it will be the result of the ongoing and ongoing systemic changes. The expected revenue growth is determined by macroeconomic indicators: gross domestic product growth in real terms by 3.8% , and nominally by 6.1% , average annual price increase of consumer goods and services by 2.3%, average wage fund growth in the national economy and nominal pensions by 6% and a nominal increase of 5.9% in private consumption. The increase in tax revenues is intended to ensure the continuation of this year's activities and new measures aimed at rebuilding the stream of tax revenue and sealing the tax system, among others. through the introduction of the split payment mechanism, the STIR Act, the on-line electronic cash register system, the road and rail freight monitoring system. In parallel, we are introducing changes in promoting entrepreneurship and innovation, among others. by a new 90% CIT rate for small and medium-sized enterprises and by modifying tax preferences related to support for R &amp; D innovation. The VAT revenue is planned in the 2019 budget of nearly PLN 180 billion, which results in an increase of more than 7.3% compared to last year's revenue. Revenue from excise duty, the second largest revenue, will increase in 2019 to PLN 73 billion, i.e. 2 billion, that's 2.8%. PIT revenue is planned to amount to 64.3 billion, an increase of 6.6%. CIT revenue will rise from PLN 34 billion in 2018 to PLN 34.8 billion, i.e. by 2.4%. The increase in budgetary revenue is accompanied by an increase in gross domestic product from PLN 1858 billion in 2016 to PLN 2234 billion in 2019. This is an increase of Poland's domestic product by PLN 375 billion. The general government deficit is forecast to be 1,7% in 2019 GDP. The revenue increase planned in the 2019 budget allows for an increase in expenditure from PLN 397.2 billion in 2018 to a record level of PLN 416 billion with the lowest budget deficit of 28.5 billion in recent years, resulting in a record-breaking, unprecedented decrease in deficit of 31%. This lowest budget deficit so far implies a significant reduction in Poland's public debt. It has already been the first year since 2017 with a nominal decline in the debt of the public finance sector since it was legally defined since 1999. At the end of 2017, the public debt was PLN 3.4 billion lower than in 2016. The relation of public debt to gross domestic product is important for the Polish economy. In 2017, this relationship was reduced from 51.9%. up to 48.5% That's 3.4%. Against the background of other countries of the European Union, Poland's public debt was one of the lowest. According to Eurostat, Poland ranked 10th among countries with the lowest level of public debt. For the European Union as a whole, this was 81.6% and in the euro area even more, because 86.7%. Poland is among the 13 countries of the European Union with a public debt below 60% GDP. According to the forecast in the draft budget for 2019, the debt-to-GDP ratio will fall to 46.6%. At the end of 2020, debt is projected to fall to 40.7%. The cost of handling the Treasury's debt is also reduced. The limit on the cost of handling the Treasury's debt for 2019 is PLN 29,2 billion. In relation to GDP, we have a drop from 1.5%. up to 1.3% in 2019. The share of the Treasury debt in foreign currency already decreased in 2017 from 34.4% 30.6%. The debt management strategy provides that loan needs will be financed primarily on the domestic market. The reduction of deficit and revenue growth in the 2019 budget will allow the government to implement the flagship programmes of Law and Justice, i.e. for the financing of the "500+" family of 21.5 billion, the "Good start" programme - 1,4 billion, the effects of restoring the retirement age - PLN 11.8 billion, the valorisation of pensions - 6.8. billions. Over PLN 13 billion were secured for family benefits, for running a small ZUS for entrepreneurs - over PLN 0.5 billion. The government has planned to unfreeze the basic amount for the civil service. Over PLN 5 billion have been secured in the 2019 budget for the salary increase alone, including nearly PLN 2 billion for the increase in teachers' salaries. More than PLN 250 million were secured for the continuation of the Children's Care Act under the age of 3 years. The total expenditure on the family in the budget for 2019 amounts to over PLN 40 billion. Nearly PLN 33 billion is planned to provide public security for Poles. More than PLN 25.5 billion is planned for the faster development of science and higher education, which represents an increase compared to expenditures in 2018, by 8%, sorry, by 6%. Additional funds were also secured for increases in the remuneration of public university staff in the special reserve of nearly PLN 917 million. More than PLN 4 billion were allocated to culture and national heritage conservation with special reserves, i.e. over PLN 517 million more than in 2018. In addition, over 122 million PLN is planned for this purpose in the voivod's budgets. In national defence, expenditure of nearly PLN 45 billion was planned, i.e. 2% gross domestic product. In subsequent speeches by representatives of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be approximated expenditure on the most important parts of the budget. On behalf of my club, I recommend the High House to adopt this good budget for Poland and Poles for 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at the gallery at the invitation of Mr Szałabawka, there are young people from Szczecin and Gryfin, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] [[Nurses weren't allowed in.]] Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Neumann from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the budget that the government of Mateusz Morawiecki has prepared for the last year of his reign for next year. It's been three years of your rule. It's worth summing it all up. This budget, presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, can be described without any trouble by the slogan, which has been hanging on billboards all over Poland recently: PiS took millions and everything is more expensive. [[Applause]] That's the budget. This is a budget where revenue hasn't increased because of good governance. They have increased because in the last 3 years you have raised more than 30 fees and introduced various kinds of new taxes. That's an increase in revenue. [[Applause]] And a few examples for a reminder. Bank tax - thanks to it Poles have more expensive loans. Tax on insurance companies - we all pay more expensive insurance for cars and our homes. RES fee and transitional fee added to higher electricity bills. Recyclable fee, that's for commercials in stores. New fees under the Water Law, which is even the rain tax you introduced. [[That's why the drought was.]] Not to mention the 23 percent VAT, the power charge and the other taxes you've introduced. You've raised your fees and taxes more than 30 times, so you've got more revenue. Is this what Poles use? No, that's not what Poles use. It's mostly used by people of power. There are no real increases for teachers, nurses, cops or other budget-related professional groups. There isn't. Recently, in Warsaw, there were many thousand manifestations of teachers, including the Solidarity that supports you. There's been a manifesto of uniform service lately. It wasn't a rally of support for the government for the great wage proposals they're getting. No, it was the cry of the despair of the people demanding worthy wages for their work, the people of the budget sphere. [[Applause]] They demand a rise in economic prosperity, economic growth, which you are talking about so much, higher budget revenues. They've been waiting three years, and they're still crazy about your lies and your promises. Decent wages also demand starving nurses from Przemyśl who are going to Warsaw today, with whom you do not even want to talk at the Health Committee meeting. All these professional groups hear one explanation from you: there's no money. That's what the carers of the disabled heard during their protest. That's what you always say. Naturally, the question arises, where is the money from these higher revenues, because they are higher, from this VAT, which is higher, from new fees, taxes, from economic growth. The question is, where are they? You could say that the PiS, as it is on one of the billboards, took the money and wants to be impunityd. Where are they? Who eats that money? For starters, the Ministry of Justice. The budget is growing from 358 million to 675 million, by 317 million, almost twice. The budget of the Ministry of Justice for next year. In 2015, so that you would have no doubt when we gave you a good economy, a good budget, it was 219 million. What's the money for? Why does the Prime Minister agree to such huge sums for Zbigniew Ziobra? The question is, is this money for this famous funding of your impunity+ program? Is it money for the D.A.'s office to talk about what we've heard over the last few weeks, what we've heard over and over again, what's happened to the PiS politicians and things that aren't comfortable for you? That's why you have to pay higher bonuses, career promotions of prosecutors, moving them to senior prosecutors so they can get promoted? Is that what the money's for? You increase your money more than twice for the Ministry of Justice, and these dropped cases in the last few weeks, I will remind you, among others.: dismissing the PiS campaign funding case from the PCK money, dismissing the case by the Warsaw prosecutor of beating women on the Independence March, dismissing the case by the same prosecutor about restricting access to the Sejm to journalists during the protest of people with disabilities and withdrawing by the same prosecutor, for the third time, the scandalous issue of voting in the column room over the state budget. What's the money for, Minister Ziobro? [[Applause]] Or maybe besides these promotions, maybe in addition to all of this, Zbigniew Ziobro or his prosecutors have this famous tape from the restaurant of Sowa and Friends, where, as the waiters claim, Mateusz Morawiecki was going to talk about buying real estate for the people who were set up. Maybe that's why today the Prime Minister can't refuse this money to Zbigniew Ziobra? Maybe that's why. These questions are and the Prime Minister must answer them sooner or later. But it's not just Zbigniew Ziobro that's wasteful. Also the CBA, which in many cases you use as political police. The expenses are rising. Next year they are going to amount to 204 million, 90 million more than it was in 2015 in the budget we left you. You've increased that spending by 90 million. Then there was 114 million, now - 204. Today it's the same size as spending on the Central Bureau of Police Investigation. The police that are after corruption, organized crime groups, are running thousands of cases. The CBI has 213 million, not much more than the CBA, but in order for it not to be - you have reduced spending on the CBI by 5 million compared to 2015, you have reduced expenditure on the CBI. Then there was 218 million, we left it there, and you give them 213 million. But you're raising 90 million to your political police. This is your spending money on the extra ones that affect. The Prime Minister himself is not a cost-effective one either, because the expenditure on public administration planned for next year has increased by PLN 1800 million compared to 2015. You spend so much more on administration after 4 years - on this expansion of new institutions, new posts, new Pisiewiczs, who had to come and take money. Your so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal will also cost taxpayers more by 6 million. In 2015, it was 31 million, now 37 million. How does it work, how does it work? Everyone can see. He stopped working, but there's more money coming because they're theirs, you have to give them. As for the Supreme Court that you want to take over, you're already planning to take over, so you're increasing the budget by 73 million, because that's where your people will be, or actually not yours, I'm sorry, Zbigniew Ziobra, because he put them through the KRS. So not exactly yours, but still from the same group, and Zbigniew Ziobro, as we have heard before, has a lot of support with the Prime Minister and has generally not refused him lately. Expenditure on four firms: the Senate, the Sejm, the President and the President of the Council of Ministers for the second year in a row exceeds PLN 1 billion. In this budget there is PLN 1.3 billion for these firms and that is to say that there is no doubt, by 429 million more than in 2015. Here the Senate, Marshal Karczewski, is extremely wasteful. The Senate law firm recorded an increase of 134% compared to 2015. In 2015, they were able to hold on for 98 million, and next year it is going to be 230 million. 230! [[Year to year.]] Listen up. In 2015, sir, for 98 and now for 230. [[You forgot to read about Polonia.]] And the Prime Minister, now and yet the Prime Minister - also increases his expenditure in relation to 2015. 105%. When Eve Kopacz was Prime Minister, it was 125 million for the Prime Minister's firm. If Morawiecki is, there's 257 million. Twice as much. Aren't you ashamed? You're eating all your money yourself. [[Lowering social expectations.]] This is another element. You also spend on creating a new story, new heroes. You can spend a lot of money. Do you remember the president's joke about Lech Kaczyński's assumption of solidarity? It's creating such a new story. It was President Kaczyński in Szczecin who said, quote: History is said to be written by the winners. We're the winners here, and we have to write this story. In Gdansk he said: "Solidarity was founded not on 31 August, but on 17 September. And he was in this operation -- and a significant part of it -- my brother's sacred memory. Some little one, too, me. So for this story to have someone to write, you've increased your IPN spending by 101 million. By 101 million compared to 2015 It was 249 million, it's 350. The money has to be to write that story. After all, new heroes require new monuments, new books, etc. You know, during this time at the Polish Academy of Sciences during these 4 years between 2015 and 2019 you increased your expenditure by 5 million. $5 million. Here, at the IPN, about 100 million and at the Polish Academy of Sciences - 20 times less. This is your support for science, and at the same time is your support for a new story built by the IPN. Of course, you don't save money on propaganda either. In the last 3 years, public television itself has received 1800 million PLN in loans that it will never repay, but it is more interesting to have a watchful position - it sounds funny - pluralism in the public media of the National Radio and Television Council. These expenses have been increased by 157% As of 2015 At that time, they had enough to guard the pluralism of 26 million, today, so that on public television, the radio would make sure that there was pluralism and everyone had a level playing field, they spent 68 million. It was 26, now 68. That's pluralism, you can see it at hours. 19.30 every day in News, for PLN 68 million. [[Applause]] Propaganda propaganda, but you don't even care what you're loudest about, about external security. Property expenditure in the area you are so proud of: National defence, which should be used to purchase arms and military equipment, is planned at 11.7 billion next year. And you know what? This amount is 1.8 billion lower than ours in 2015. That's 1.8 billion less you want to spend... [[10%.]] ...and you're talking about you arming the Polish army. And just so there isn't, that's 11.7 billion you're still taking into account the VIP plane spending. This whole project... [[That's 10%.]] ...Taste PLN 3.1bn, even though you assumed in 2017 that it would be 1.4bn less. Turns out it's more expensive and 3.1 billion goes to VIP planes. I don't mention that you're wasting a lot of money on the Territorial Defense Army, which is going to cost 483 million next year. This is more than the Special Forces, which only goes to 353 million, for military counterintelligence - 262 million, for intelligence - 187 million. And this last item is particularly important and worth looking at, because you cut expenditure on military intelligence by PLN 63 million compared to 2015. [[Scandal!]] In the 2015 Budget Act, there was 250 million. Today you propose 187 million. I stop wondering sometimes because your people were able to translate some reports themselves into Russian translations, so you may need less money, but this is a strategic importance for Poland: interview and counterintelligence. You weaken him, just as you weaken the Polish army. National roads. You are proud of this once again, so you have increased the budget for national roads from 4.3 billion to 4.5 billion, theoretically. But the total expenditure of the state budget and the National Road Fund are going to be reduced from 20.4 billion to 19.3 billion - that's 1.1 billion. Where's the height? You only move it inside the budget by lying, giving only individual sections of the budget. In general, you're reducing spending on roads by 1.1 billion. That's the truth. This budget is, as I say, consistent with the principle that the PiS took millions and everything is more expensive. And there's always a question of who's gonna pay for it. So you will pay, sir, you will pay, you will pay, we will pay for your wasteful governments. [[Voice from the room: We're already paying.]] [[Voice from the hall: Poles.]] Because do you know that prices e.g. Is the electricity growing? Next year they will increase for industrial customers or local authorities from 30% to 70%. Are you aware that for example - the best examples are - the Silesian Stadium, the pride which so far paid 212 PLN/MWh, gets offers for next year - the rate of 389 PLN/MWh? [[Bravo, PiS!]] [[PiS rocks!]] So far, the energy charge for the Silesian Stadium for the whole year was about 1150 thousand. zł, and next year it will be 2100 thousand. By PLN 1 million you have increased the costs. Of course it will be paid by people in tickets, it will be paid by the local government, after all, it is not you, it is people who will pay for you. Example from Pomerania - High-speed City Railway currently pays for electricity 22.4 million a year. The offer for next year is 33,4 million - 11 million more. This is the cost that you raise the prices for your trips to SKM in Pomerania. As far as Regional Transport for Pomerania is concerned, for the Pomeranian Voivodeship, this is 16 million this year for energy, next year - 28.2 Million. That's over 12 million higher cost... [[That's how you fight the smog.]] ... Regional transport. And since our marshals were already wise, good hosts, did wholesale shopping for their units, 43 units under the Marshal of Pomeranian Voivodeship buy energy together and this year all purchases cost 18,5 million for all units of the Marshal's office. Next year, the offer from Energia is 25,300,000. 25 million is the increase you've funded. The price that Energa gave to the Marshal of Pomeranian Voivodeship is 233 PLN/MWh, and next year it will be 375 PLN. That's 61%. increase in the price of energy. This is what you finance your wasteful governments, which is why we cannot support this budget. We're gonna ask for his rejection. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u115	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. We continue the debate. I would like to invite you to the speaker... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the room: The counter, the meter is ticking.]] Hold the meter. I'll keep that in mind if I continue my deliberations or pass it on to the next marshal. And now I would like to invite you to the speaker of Mr Grzegorz Długi from the Kukiz club15, who will present the opinion of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u116	Good morning, Marshal. Thank you very much. I want your marshal to remember me, and it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u117	It's just starting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u118	Okay, that's wonderful. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Budgetary Act is widely regarded as the most important law we make every year, and it is probably the case when it comes to the essence of our democracy. However, for some time we have seen that this law no longer has such purely fiscal significance, and in fact it is mainly an element, I do not want to say propaganda, but such a very flat policy, which is not really with the essence of our stateship, with the essence of our state, with the expansion of the state, is only an element of our mutual Polish-Polish war. And we use the money of all Poles. All Poles pay for us to say bad things about each other here, to use bad things to put our own money on each other. It's about time we changed that. I don't see any changes yet. I am pleased that, in the current budget, the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister has taken some assumptions quite carefully. Well, that does prove a certain responsibility, but unfortunately, the benefits of this budget are over. Apart from these assumptions, however, everything else raises our very serious resistance. We will start with the basic issue: we are probably the only country in the area that has a budget deficit. At such a time of prosperity, our brothers from the south, the Czechs, already have a second or third year of budget surplus. [[And the Germans?]] Germany has a budget surplus. We could. We actually have a surplus, we're just spending a little bit over what we're supposed to spend. We're just spending too much money. We spend money deciding this in this courtroom, although I'm not sure this decision really comes from this courtroom. Here we decide to spend more than we have. Our children, our grandchildren will probably not even have the chance to repay us for this, in quotes, because we will be gone, so we are brave here. On the other hand, the budget deficit in such a good economic situation is a sin against our own nation, and I would like everyone to know that. [[Applause]] It's not like some economists, fashionable lately, anti-liberal, although we are anti-liberal... [[That's not true!]] ...but we can tell two bucks from one buck... On the other hand, Mr Lepper's claim, which seems to have been very fortified in this Chamber, namely that the more it seems to be, the more it is, is actually difficult to defend in the real world. The deficit right now isn't just that it's still being assumed. This deficit, High Sejm, we believe that in this budget is not real, we believe that in fact the deficit is much bigger, and that is for two reasons. First of all, the tradition of the Civic Platform continues to take things under the rug, so mostly the financing of the ZUS, which is actually hidden under various forms of bankruptcy, because the ZUS is bankrupt - that is the truth and it has to be said directly. In this way, we also hide the actual deficit. But there's a worse thing. 2019 is the election year. See what the Prime Minister has come up with for this election year, so he says: we have the smallest budget deficit in history, etc., etc., and this is really an ambush, because this theoretically low deficit cannot be maintained on this scale of expenditure and, above all, on what is yet to happen, because please note that the huge variety of potential expenditures we know will not be in the budget. About what we're about to say. Look at what's going on. The election will be in the fall. If the current Law and Justice wins, we will make the right bill, where we will improve this budget and add where we need to make this deficit and everything will be okay. If we are graciously defeated by the prevailing Law and Justice, then the successors will have to do so and there will be a great cry: oh, please, we have a small budget, and those here, the Socialists, and they are already increasing the budget. The trap is very clever, only that the budget is not meant to serve the political game, the budget is intended to support the development of our country. And I ask myself, what is the development of the country when we keep on maintaining... And here, unfortunately, I regret that Mr Morawiecki has maintained this long tradition. He is not the author or PiS is not the author, but he is the co-author, as in all previous authorities in some sense he participated, that this Ministry Poland, as I once heard from the main, most important Member of Law and Justice, was to be fought against. But this Polish resort is doing great. After all, in fact a huge amount, I don't want to say: most, a lot of public money is spent outside the budget. In fact, in this budget, this actual possibility of maneuvering is so small that what my previous speaker said... He was right to say, but it doesn't really matter that the CBI is going to go there 10 or 5 or 100 million more or less, because it's really... [[90.]] 90. 100 - I said. Well, that's more than that. Yeah, that's okay. [[Since 2015. Clever.]] Okay, good. It doesn't really matter, because the government's ability to direct a stream of money in different directions is very limited. A huge amount of money remains, for example. in various types of special-purpose funds, and unfortunately here the current government plans to create such further funds, special-purpose funds, which are really tools in the hands of individual ministers. As a result, individual ministers are provided with resources for their purposes in such a way that another minister will not take it away from him, for the Prime Minister will not take it away from him. What are you going to say to me, Prime Minister? It's a special fund, that's all. And in this way, we are limiting our state's ability to act ourselves. This is not a state-of-the-art, and I would expect that since the government of Law and Justice wants it to be an opinion that it is a government of revolution, a positive one, called a nicely good change, that it is a government of revolution, let it do a revolution, and not just talk about it. Then, gentlemen, do a public finance revolution and restore public finances to the state and, preferably, to the citizens. And it can be restored, first, by deficit, second, by remembering that extensive forms of management have ended. We have very low unemployment. This unemployment is probably even lower than the indicators show. It is no longer possible to drive economic development by increasing employment, because there is no one left to hire. If the Law and Justice wants to increase our economy by means of imports of workers from Ukraine, I wish you much happiness, but first of all, our Ukrainian brothers probably no longer want to, because in Germany they pay better, and secondly, I would like us to build an economy with our forces and for our people, not necessarily based on the use of cheap work of other workers. It's about time we changed the economy from extensive to intense. So? The Prime Minister showed us a huge number of slides, showed us great prospects, but there is no time to deal with it. I think the Prime Minister's been driving and running an election campaign for six months. I understand that this is an element, it should, but let the Prime Minister manage the government a little further, because he is the most important person in the government. Personally, we believe that the executive authority should be changed at all in a systemic sense - either the Chancellor's system or the President's system - already a fish village, which of these two - but it cannot be that the Prime Minister is so deeply involved in the election campaign that he does not premiere. Then, Prime Minister, please go back to the alleys and start ruling, but rule for the sake of all of us, rule in such a way that we develop our country so that money goes to development, not slides. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u119	Thank you, sir. Before I give the floor to Mrs Paulina Hennig-Klosce, let me inform the High House that the President of the House of Representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco, Mr Habib El Malki and the delegation, is listening to our deliberations. [[Applause]] I cordially welcome the guests. Also to those present at the gallery on my left I wish you a pleasant stay in the Seym and positive impressions. Hello, all of you. And now Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will present her position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Short-sightedness is a disease that the author of this budget has probably suffered from over the past few weeks, and this short-sightedness has been dictated by the immediate political interest of the governing party. In fact, I could end my speech here and get off the stand, but as soon as I do, the Members of the PiS would say that these are empty words, I will prove my thesis. You are talking about the fact that the biggest success of this budget is a low deficit, at the level of PLN 28.5 billion, but you forget to say what the whole environment looks like in the European Union and that 13 countries of the European Union are planning a surplus next year. [[14.]] There are countries like Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, but also countries that can embarrass you, such as Greece, Estonia, Slovenia, Lithuania and Bulgaria. Another eight countries are planning a deficit either zero or at a lower level than in Poland, a vast majority - really at a much lower level. Each budget should have three stable pillars. This is what Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about very much at the beginning of his office. He's completely forgotten about it today. Why? Because the numbers exposed Moravian's plan completely. The investment rate in Poland has been the lowest in 22 years and at the end of the second quarter was 17.8%. For the past two years, we have heard that the investment will be reflected in the next quarter, in the next six months, in the following year. This reflection was not after the collapse in 2016, it did not take place in 2017 or in the first half of 2018. By the end of 2017, you have already rejected a huge success, after which GUS corrected data from the second half of the year by 50%. I don't know if it's a coincidence, but that's exactly what happened. For the past two years, we've been hearing about a reflection that was supposed to lead us to Morawiecki's plan. I do not know if you remember what investment rate, that is, the share of investment in global GDP, was based on Morawiecki's plan. Minister, do you remember what the investment rate originally established in Morawiecki's plan was? If not, I'll remind you. 25%. How much do we have today? 17.8%. Where are we in front of Europe? I can say again: Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia, Latvia and Estonia have an investment rate above 20%. Also in countries such as Bulgaria and Lithuania, this rate is higher than in Poland. All over the subregion. Why is this important? At a time of good economics, everyone can write down expenses based on the revenue that appears in the budget. But when we're strong, they'll decide the years that come after. Every entrepreneur who manages his own budget knows that it's not art to give workers a raise when the entire economy in Europe is on the fifth run, but it's art not to cut jobs when the crisis comes. Without modernising the workplaces and increasing the productivity of the work of this success, we will not defend ourselves if the money itself does not dripping into the budget. What causes no investment? We have been saying this for three years: the instability of the law, the instability of the legislation, but also the lack of hands to work and the pressure to pay. The government is doing absolutely nothing to encourage people to go to work. You give a lot of reasons to stay home and live off benefits. And the lack of hands looks like this: the number of job vacancies at the end of the second quarter already exceeded 160 thousand, was more than 8% increased compared to the previous quarter and increased by 35% over the year. Do you know what that means? This is moving so fast that not only the economy will not only develop for us, but entrepreneurs will also start to liquidate unprofitable jobs. The budget demands a raise. I'm not surprised at the budget staff because you're saving them. In 2019, wages in the budget are expected to rise by 2%, which is below inflation, while in the business sector they will rise by 6%. Good times aren't enough for you. For 3 years, you have introduced 30 new fees, taxes and danin. You've also frozen all possible tax thresholds. This is the real money that you pulled out of your pocket, not thieves, not VAT fraudsters, but Poles' pockets. For example, in order for me not to be literal, these are numbers drawn from the budget or in this budget planned: bank tax - 4,5 billions. The profits of banks are growing, and this tax was paid by customers, among others. in mortgage prices, i.e. poorer people have been charged who have not yet earned money, young people. Cadastral tax on commercial real estate. 1.5 billion PLN placed at rental prices of hotels, office buildings, warehouses or apartments. The issue fee will charge the price of fuel - 1700 million. The recycling fee we pay by buying disposable commercials - 1200 million. Solidarity Danina, another 1,200 million. Is this the money you took from the VAT fraudsters, the minister, or the money you took from the Poles? If we look at this list, all these fees are exactly the charges that indirectly charge our purchases. Of course, you are proud of the good situation in the ZUS, but you forget to say that it is simply helping economic growth, that today our Western neighbours are helping us pull our economy, paying contributions that since the retirement age is reduced you get almost 100% more of the OFE, all those who know the exact settlements between the ZUS and the OFE and the budget know it well, it will end too. Of course, we have another 7 billion that you've already planned. PPK and the liquidation of the upper limit of contributions to ZUS is another 7 billion drawn from Poles' pockets. It could be said that in Poland we do not have regulated prices, so the government is not responsible for the costs in shops, but for those already over 30 items that gave revenue to the budget, even more than I read, it is money that has been placed at the prices of everyday products that we buy in shops, in food prices, clothes, hairdressing services, even services such as the export of impureness, because if expensive fuel, we need to pay more for driving our garbage to a place where it will be disposed of. Such government policy causes Poles to be poor. Because of all the fees you have introduced and which are included in the budget for next year, we will not be able to support the budget, and I therefore request that the budget be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u121	Thank you, Member. I would ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to my very short speaking time, I will limit myself only to some parameters characteristic of the state budget for 2019. According to experts from the European Commission, global GDP is estimated to be 4.1%. The government plans to increase GDP in Poland in the current year, i.e. 3.8%. The country's economic development will continue to be based on consumption. Total consumption growth will be 3.6% This year and 3,2% in 2019 and the rate of private consumption in nominal terms will increase by 5.9%. The share of investment in the GDP of the government and local government sector will only increase to 4.5%. The government is planning a large increase in investment, but private. Hence the share of total investment in GDP will be over 9% this year and fall to 8.4% next year. Once again, I will remind the general, general, old principle that there is no economic development without investment. There isn't. If you don't invest, it doesn't grow, at least it stays in place. The 2019 budget is therefore the budget of consumption, stagnation and survival. The budget of survival, but survival of what? I'm asking with irony. Is passive survival, without the signs of acceleration and economic development of the country, in a time of economic prosperity in the world? I know my question is rhetorical because PiS is a specialist in the whispering of reality. And if it doesn't help, it's a common use of lies, practically every case. So I ask, can we talk about the development of the country in a situation where the next financial year is planned to slow down the investment? Property expenditure, very low this year, will increase next year by a little more than PLN 600 million, i.e. 3.2% , and reach the amount of PLN 21 800 million, including in national defence, 53% total assets, i.e. the amount of PLN 11 600 million, or e.g. health expenditure will amount to 1032 million, i.e. 4.7% property expenditure. The deficit of the state budget is set at PLN 28.5 billion and the general government debt will increase to PLN 1093 billion. And here's how in the 2019 budget there are multi-annual investments that require a lot of planning. This is another year of saving on investments. For the national road construction programme, a 10-year programme with a total cost of over PLN 184 billion, the budget expenditure next year will amount to 4400 million, that is only 2.42% the total resources. That's the commitment. Again, this is due to the very justification of the government's budget: so many investments have been prepared, so for three years so many investments have been prepared to be implemented. On the one hand, it frightens the investment event, but on the other hand I am glad, because this is how the construction of my road to Warsaw - S17, prepared by the predecessors, is taking place, and so is the case with most investments. The total cost of a multi-annual 10-year railway programme is over 66 billion, and the planned budget expenditure for next year is only 1400 million, which is even less commitment, because 2,24%. This will be the construction of these roads, so the measures are even smaller than in the case of the construction of national roads. Both multi-annual investment programmes were adopted in 2015, so there was plenty of time to prepare these investments. There is also a multiannual programme adopted by the Council of Ministers in January this year. It is about rail infrastructure for maintenance and renovation - until 2023. The implementation of this programme is also very poor. The total cost of the programme for 5 years is almost PLN 24 billion, and next year's budget expenditure will be PLN 3600 million, i.e. only 15%. The government has also planned a programme to complement local and regional road infrastructure, these famous bridges for the regions. At the total cost of the programme for 7 years to carry out the task in 2019, PLN 15 million were allocated from the state budget, but other sources of funding were indicated. We already know what kind of sources they are. It's about the Self-Government Road Fund, but it's a shame that the fees to be used to fight smog will be built roads. However, I think that road investments carried out by local governments, municipalities, powiats and voivodships will save the country from the collapse of the investment. So much in the recent period you wanted to discredit the local government, and really - I think - you can learn from the local government to prepare and conduct investments. Already last year, when discussing the 2018 budget, I called not to cut funds for road investments to local governments, because they have technical projects, they are ready to be implemented. I am satisfied that, although it will be a year late, road investments will be carried out. What is the attitude of government leaders? I have to quote it. In my town - Lublin the control of NIK and CBA was not helped, so last Friday PiS organized a conference, I say: picket before the Marshal's office. He was among others. Minister, Deputy Marshal of the Sejm, candidate for President of Lublin and tried to declare that there were supposed investment delays, but the Marshal of the voivodship came to them with his own microphone. And what happened? The picket organizers didn't want to hear the marshal's argument and hurriedly left the square outside the office building, they just ran away. Ladies and gentlemen! I rarely use strong words in my speeches, but today, with such a perfidious destruction of local governments, I have to use a more forceful form: you have no culture, no dignity, no shame. [[Applause]] Back to the budget, I would like to point out that the project does not contain any significant resources for vulnerable people, with disabilities, pensioners and pensioners. Due to the increase in the retirement age for farmers, the number of recipients will decrease by 1% and the average agricultural pension will be PLN 1152. You'll save money on farmers. I will no longer discuss further parts, it would be worth considering what the ordinary citizens and entrepreneurs will have out of this budget, but I will not make it. So let me sum up: the 2019 draft budget in the assessment of our club, let me repeat, is the budget of consumption and stagnation, and it is a pity that without any chance of stimulating economic development. Mizeria of government investments, lack of obvious help for older people and further huge debt of our country, debt of all Poles. It's a budget to reject at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u123	Thank you very much, Member, for taking the floor. And now to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle towards the Government's draft budget law for 2019. Let me be brief: the bill is good, sewn to measure. Of course, you can always modify something in the budget, make minor changes or amendments, because everything can't be predicted and you can never please everyone. So much for entry. With regard to the votes of opposition to the draft budget, it is difficult not to recall the alarming forecasts of the main economic and financial authority of opponents of the current government - Leszek Balcerowicz. Almost 3 years ago, he predicted that the implementation of the financial policy of the PiS government already in 2016 meant that the budget deficit standards were exceeded and a number of other consequences of the apocalyptic finality of the financial policy of the Government of Law and Justice. In our view, none of the ruling formations so far deserved as much recognition or comparable credit. [[Voice from the room: Who writes this?]] Contrary to all the announcements of unconvinced opponents, the current government has been very successful in implementing a policy that has not been known in Poland for generations. A policy in which all Poles are the beneficiaries of economic growth, not just citizens recruiting from a closed, privileged caste. Such management of the budget is not only fair to the extent previously unknown to any of the contemporary Poles, but it also turns out to be a significant driver of development. This is demonstrated by all macroeconomic data, including record low government deficits. We appreciate both the pro-growth and the precautionary elements of the proposal. Hence, the Free and Solidarni Circle believes that there is all the data to accept the proposed draft budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Good budget, tailor-made.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u125	Thank you. I invite you to the speaker of Richard Petru, near Liberal and Social. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government's approach to financial issues can be summarised in three words: wastefulness, myopia and non-chalance. Ladies and gentlemen! Good times in the economy, when we have a global economy, are used to repay debts, and in your time public debt increased by PLN 115 billion. About PLN 115 billion. Three years of wasteland. Point two. Good times in the economy should be used to reduce taxes. Remember, the platform increased VAT from 22% to 23%. You said you'd lower it. You didn't lower your VAT. What did you do? You've raised a whole series of taxes. I will only quote a few taxes that you have increased: bank tax - the average cost per citizen is 78 PLN; the power charge - the household will pay on average 84 PLN more; the transitional charge for electricity - 50 PLN more per person. [[A year?]] Instead of helping people with disabilities, you are actually introducing a solidarity tribute of 25,000. citizens. Now you're introducing a moving tax for individuals. Those who want to leave the country while you're in charge. It's just a few examples. [[With the money to leave.]] But the interesting thing is: I recently asked the Ministry of Finance how much VAT is held by entrepreneurs. So the person pays the VAT, and then the Ministry of Finance or the tax office keeps it, then gives it back. Look, these are record amounts -- 18 billion. This is in the answer I received from the State from the Ministry of Finance. 18 billion PLN. It's not a seal. That's keeping the money to improve liquidity. 18 billion. There were 14 billion for the Platforms, 18 billion for your governments. In fact, a time of high growth was a time that needed to be spent on increasing the salaries of teachers, police officers, nurses, because that should be what money should go for. But what? Turns out you don't have the money. Why? Because you're wasteful. You're wasteful and irresponsible. Look, the last few years are really a wasted opportunity. You have reduced the retirement age, condemning Poles in the future to poverty. You don't care who pays for it for a few years. But there is no way that pensions are high, since retirement age is low. You have politicized the Polish judiciary. But what is the effect? There's no investment. I'm talking about private and foreign investments. [[In court?]] The huge problem you've created is actually the lack of supervision of companies. GetBack's famous story - it's gonna follow us around. The effect is that the financial supervision of GetBack should be exercised by KNF and the Stock Exchange. It wasn't there. What's the effect now? Small Polish companies cannot issue bonds because nobody really believes in private companies' bonds. There's inflation rising. You didn't talk about it. You're nationalizing banks instead of privatizing them. It is some illness of this Sejm that 30 years after we got out of communism, we return to communist methods. And worst of all, we still have a conflict with the European Union. But I agree with what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said a few years ago, when he was still friends with the Civic Platform - it is on the tapes - that if there is no way to meet social needs, we need to limit expectations. That's what Mateusz Morawiecki said when he was president of the bank and worked closely with the Platform. What's he saying now? That money is for everything, and when cops come, when teachers come, when nurses come, they say there's no money. Why? Because you're wasteful, you're extremely wasteful. And the news is that even this government is forecasting that next year's economic growth will be much slower, because there will be economic slowdown. And the question is who will pay for all these promises which at this moment Poles, so to speak, you present. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present in a few points what the budget really should look like. First, a higher retirement age so that pensions are higher. Secondly, tax reduction, especially for small companies - 500 PLN, not 1300 PLN. There must be a balanced budget. It's a fundamental principle that you have to make money first and then spend it. It's time to enter the euro area, not the ruble zone, where you're really going. And every tax increase should mean a tax reduction at the same time. I understand that we now have an election campaign and you are outrunning the Civic Platform, who will promise more, but I really assure you that neither excessiveness, nor shortsightedness, nor nonschalance will ever direct Poland to the tracks of rapid development. And I'm afraid, according to the Prime Minister, only a bowl of rice plus will be left after your governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u127	Another speech - Mr Jan Szewczyk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u128	The shoemaker. Janusz Szewczak, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u129	Yes, sir. Mr Jan Szewczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u130	Yeah, yeah, the shoemaker. Dear Marshal! Honourable Members! I think that having other political views should not preclude the use of reason and minimal decency. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We appeal to you for this.]] That's one thing. Yes, I haven't started yet, and you're already interrupting. As far as part 79 and part 98 of the budget are concerned: debt service, public debt, income and income, that is what we are about to hear, but you have already said a lot to the President of the Nobles on this issue. On the other hand, I wanted to address the fundamental question that Poles asked us, former Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who said: Show me where the money is buried, which could be distributed to Poles. Well, we found this buried money in stolen VAT holes, in excise carousels, in those gambling caves that weren't collected from... [[In SKOKs.]] ...taxes and today we can, the budget can spend nearly 70 billion on family, social, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in trouble if I have a speech, and I have read the transcript of last year's speeches, from the 49th meeting - what you said about the 2018 budget. A complete disaster - Mr Ryszard Petru even bet us Greece and Italy as a model unsurpassed, if we are worse, because there this deficit is smaller, etc., Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, on behalf of the Civic Platform, said that this budget, this year's budget will go down in history and will be remembered by Poles because it will be associated with anti-theft protection of butter cubes, because so the butter was so expensive, and Mr Rutnicki Jakub was thundering here: 10 zł butter, drama! Well, today the butter is 5 zł, 6 zł, because that's how it changes. You gotta think. I understand that there is a certain inferno, hatred, etc., but it should not, I should say, cast on the logic of a certain thought. [[Voice from the room: Energy flows.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the last 3 years of the Platform's and PSL's governments, the years 2013, 2014, 2015, the budget revenue fell by more than 1.2% even though of course it was economic growth. Over the past three years, the rule of law and justice has increased tax revenues by 30%. [[Applause]] And it doesn't matter what you're talking about when it comes to the Social Insurance Fund, the Social Security Fund. It has not been so for a long time that we can say that the proceeds from September 2018 to the Social Insurance Fund are more than PLN 10 billion - 10 billion - and it is expected that this can be improved by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, aggressive tax optimization, so it was nicely called, in 2008 and 2015 carried out on a gigantic scale, even by companies of the Treasury, cost us so that the revenue of the state, the revenue of local governments dropped by almost 3%. 3% ! And it didn't bother you then. I want to tell you that we can handle this. A significant package of laws is being prepared that will reduce this type of practice, and not the marginal amount it is, because this is, some say, 30.40 billion, but there are calculations that say that it could be 70 billion fleeing from our pockets. We are doing our job, we are moving forward and about budgets such as the Law and Justice budgets for the years 2016, 2017, 2018, the previous government, today's opposition can only dream. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Poland, under the rule of Law and Justice, in the summer, bought 9 tons of gold - the first time in this century. For the first time in this century, and remember that in your day, this gold was rather disappearing, even from those vaults of Amber Gold, so there's a difference in favor. [[And who was advertising them?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can say yes. What was to grow in this budget is growing, although we would like it to grow faster, what was to fall is clearly falling. I would like to tell you that there will be no armageddon in this year's budget, which you have announced here and threatened, in my opinion simply and senselessly Poles, because of the 41 billion deficit planned in the 2018 budget, it is likely that the implementation will be up to 60%. lower and may be only around PLN 25 billion, and planned GDP growth in this year's budget at 3.8% it's probably going to be higher by the whole percentage, which is somewhere within 5%, 4.8% , maybe 4.9. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the high planned VAT revenue in the 2018 budget after August is higher by PLN 5 billion and will be record-breaking, I assure you, this year, perhaps even within PLN 170 billion. The Member wants you to remind us what your income was? I will say this: in 2013 - 113 billion PLN, and how you were spinning within 120, it was madness. This year there will be 170 - probably 170 billion. [[And at what level was the VAT rate?]] Please don't disturb me. The value of tax fraud is falling. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a positive balance in the current account after the second quarter of 2018 at the level of PLN 2.5 billion. [[That's an important question.]] To your terrible horror, the surplus of 1.1 billion has probably returned to the budget, so it is evident that these are positive signals. Revenue from the PIS tax... PITs are almost 15% higher , CIT income - more than 16% higher. [[PiS tax, yes, sir.]] And you scumbags talk about some dramatic situation? Mr Długi - I do not know if Mr Długi is still in the Chamber. No, he's gone. The deficit you were talking about is debatable. Does always balanced at zero or even a budget with surplus guarantee rapid development? This is a matter of debate. Sometimes you have to reach for that money, and especially when someone has made debts before, they have increased the public debt by 400 or 450 billion zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland's gross foreign debt fell in the second quarter from EUR 320 billion to EUR 311 billion. Government debt fell in the second quarter from almost EUR 122 billion to EUR 115 billion. As far as Poland's international investment position is concerned, after the second quarter of this year this amount decreased from EUR 283 billion to EUR 267 billion, please. The share of the Treasury's debt in foreign currencies has also decreased significantly. In 2016, when we took over your epochal budget work, it was 34%. In the second half of 2018 this is already 30%, and we plan to reduce the share of foreign debt significantly to 24% by 2022. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You can!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not know where the reasons for the fact that what was impossible in the budgetary sphere is possible today, I highly recommend to you today's article in the Super Expressie. The platform spread an umbrella over the VAT mafia. Please read it, there is a specific document signed by your Minister of Finance. So once again, I appeal: You can criticize the budget, you have to criticize the budget, but let's do it with brains and a little decency. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u131	Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform. This is another speech at this item. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary debate is primarily a debate about credibility, because this is the most important one. In fact, credibility is one of the favorite words of the ruling party, so today we will check it out. Even your slogan is: We keep our word in the government, we keep our word in the local government. We're gonna see how that credibility is, how it is with that word. [[Voice from the room: We will.]] First, we're gonna take a look at what's been going on so far, then we're gonna take a look at what's going on in today's budget. Let's see what it looks like in Warsaw - these words I address especially to Patrick Jaki, who makes a lot of promises - and we'll talk about it. [[This is not a local government campaign, sir.]] Warsaw is the only big city in Poland that does not have a real sports hall - those were the words of Patrick Jaki. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Don't bother!]] Well, in the vote no. 57, the budget vote, Madam, on 11 January 2018, there was an amendment in which 80 million PLN was written just for the construction of a sports and entertainment hall in Warsaw. And let's see how Patrick Jak voted. Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that he voted against. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Amazing. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] All right, sport isn't everything. We had a sports debate yesterday. There are other issues. Let's take a look at these other issues. Mr.Patryk says: The inhabitants of the capital want to create and see Warsaw as a place friendly to all women, but not always the ideas and plans of the inhabitants of the capital are in harmony with the idea of present city authorities. Well, I'm sure Patrick Whatever did something, after all he is the minister of this government, he certainly made sure that the budgetary amendments that concern women's rights were supported. There was an amendment, vote 151: 5 million PLN for the creation of an institute - the centre of women's rights. This is extremely important because you are withdrawing money from all organizations that defend women's rights, from which you will be accounted. Let's see. If my competitor wants to defend women's rights, 100%. he had to support this amendment. We're checking. He voted against. Again against, ladies and gentlemen. Interesting. [[Voice from the hall: Ooh, shame!]] Let's move on. Let's think about what happened, for example. in the area of culture. For all of us, culture is an absolute priority. My competitor says: Warsaw needs a new opening in the sphere of culture, proposals for both its inhabitants and the artists themselves. Here we go. I don't know if you remember such an amendment concerning the Sinfonia Varsovia orchestra, because it started a lot with that. Well, I guess we all want to support culture, don't we? There was an amendment, vote 277: 30 million on Sinfonia Varsovia. And we're looking. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Patrick Which voted against. It's against again. Amazing. [[Voice from the hall: Ooh, shame!]] But we're still talking about credibility. One last thing, very important. You're laughing, but maybe that smile and that improbable insolence on your face is gonna be a little less. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Listen to me. [[Because it's about the state budget.]] [[Don't disturb me.]] You want to cultivate the tradition of the Warsaw Uprising, just like all of us. There was a budgetary amendment, Mr President, concerning the creation of a daily house of support for the Warsaw insurgents, a notabene house that we opened last week because we found the money for this purpose. [[Applause]] [[We're discussing your budget.]] Well, there was an amendment to State budget 192. And how did Patrick what vote? He voted against. And the last question, which is about the subway, my dear fellow Member. Well, we've tabled an amendment, we've requested that there be extra money on the subway. And what happened? Of course, Patrick Who voted against. [[Ooh...]] And we're talking about today and next year's budget. Please don't nod your hand, please sit down, because we're talking about your obligations you don't know about. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is about the state budget.]] What happens in the election campaign? Another commitment of the ruling party appears in the election campaign. I remind you, her representatives are saying that they will fulfil their obligations. [[It's about the state budget.]] They talk about credibility all the time. And what do they promise? They promise, for example. Metro in Warsaw. So what I'm saying is, where are these expenses written down in the draft budget? If you promise, then I'm waiting for your promises to be included in the budget. I think the special situation is that during the election campaign some investments are promised, the party rules, can take care of these issues, because ministers promise that there will be money for these investments... [[There must be documentation first.]] ...and unfortunately it turns out that this money is not included in the budget. And finally - because this is the most important - I will ask what you are saying right now, what signal you are sending to Poles and Poles. The Prime Minister and Minister of Development say that money will go there - and says so directly to some of your politicians - where the ruling party will actually win. And that's the ultimate insolence. In the meantime, you are nodding your head, sir. Such enunciations, such declarations should not happen in any civilized state, because if you promise something, then whoever wins, this money should be found. Can you imagine me standing in front of the Warsaws and saying, "The districts, where the results will be good for me, will they be preferred?" Can you imagine anyone saying something like that? I mean, you can't say anything like that. It's clear. On the other hand, the ruling party clearly speaks to Poles and Poles that it will support those places where their candidates will win. In any civilized country, such a minister would have to resign. [[Applause]] [[Prime Minister.]] And finally, one very important thing, ladies and gentlemen. State budget It's not a party money box. This isn't a party fund. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] If you make promises that there will be money in the state budget for fulfilling your promises, I hope that no matter who wins in the regions, cities, towns and villages... [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] ...it's money for those investments that you promise the local governments will find themselves. In the context of the fact that, by the way, everything indicates that you will lose most of the money from the EU budget that Poland belongs to, you will be obliged, under the EU regulation, to supplement this money. So I would advise you to consider how the budget for this year and the next year should look like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u133	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to address Mr Blaze Parda, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we're in the middle of a budget debate or a campaign, a campaign rally of the Civic Platform, I wonder. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, 12 countries in the European Union already had a budget surplus. Why? Because in economic times wise governments are saving themselves, and those who are less wise are indebted. The Prime Minister prides himself on the fact that the budget gap is only PLN 30 billion in deficit. It's some kind of psychic thing when we're in such a good economic situation. Poles work day and night, unemployment is gone, and you continue despite raising many kinds of taxes and fees you claim to have little. And now it's only 30 billion, and this year you owe us even more. Kukiz.15 is behind the principle of balanced budget and banning the debt of Poles. We have no moral right to indebt ourselves to our children and grandchildren. That 30 billion is actually 2,000. PLN per working Pole, i.e. from the beginning, now it will be the fourth financial year, ladies and gentlemen, you have indebted every working Pole to 10,000. PLN - 10,000. zł extra load. I'm not talking about this burden anymore in the days of the Civic Platform. So full of success. I see politics is the same. In particular, I appeal to young people who may be following this parliamentary debate. The government reaches to the pockets of Poles, raising taxes, does not simplify bureaucracy, increases employment in the administration. And now you, young man, and your parents, your loved ones, who pay 18%. or 32% Tax... You've been robbed or frozen for free. She hasn't been raised in 10 years, that's what happened during the Civic Platform, and today is the same situation. The law and justice on this subject are trying to make some media noise that raised the tax-free amount. Yeah, for a few percent of Poles. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] In fact, for a large part, it has been frozen, i.e. really reduced, because it does not even cover inflation costs, and for the wealthiest it has been eliminated at all. Last year you increased the fuel tax, you basically added another fee, which will enter in January 2019. A relief for commuting is also frozen for 12 years. There are many other reliefs and taxes that you do not really touch, and you should move them, the only direction you take, is the direction to increase instead of updating even the simplest ones, such as a relief to get to work or a simple tax-free amount. You're making up a lot of new danins, taxes. That's the way it is with VAT. We have already filed a law reducing VAT to 22% this year, and the ladies and gentlemen rejected our law unfortunately, claiming that it was simply to be. Although it expires this year, I expect that you will soon apply for an extension of this period for the following years. [[They'll hide it in some other bill.]] Of course, the Civic Platform has increased this VAT to 23%, supposedly for 3 years, and it is already the eighth year of validity of this law. You two years ago, you renewed that tax rate again. What's it gonna be? That this year you're gonna raise it again for the years to come. And today you are boasting that only PLN 30 billion more will be incurred in debt - in fact, it concerns our children, our grandchildren. If you know that the economic situation is good, ladies and gentlemen, please prepare us for this worse period, which may be two years from now, in two or three years' time. What then? How much will it cost? What kind of loans are we going to have to take in order to function normally with all these charges? After all, this will make the economy awfully slow down. It's gonna be a tree-clash. Big spending, constantly raising new taxes, inventing, it's already tributes, I think there's gonna be some kind of smoke charge soon. You're actually going on the road of increasing the burden for citizens. When the economic situation is relatively stable - but it's not thanks to you, it's just the way it is in the world - it's still doing well, but it can be disastrous for our budget and for our economy in a moment. So that I ask for reason and reason to start thinking about saving money right now, and then, if it's a difficult moment, then we'll think about whether or not we can increase spending and not stimulate the economy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u135	Thank you. Member Sławomir Nitras with formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Formal conclusion.]] Formal conclusion, excuse me... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make a formal request on the basis of an article. 184, requesting a recess. Your marshal just got here. I don't know if you've had a chance to see what's going on under the Sejm. Twenty nurses from Przemyśl arrived, who, as it turns out, paralyzed the entire firm. Not only were they not allowed in, but because of them they did not allow trips from schools. There is a growing crowd of citizens who were to visit or visit the Sejm today, and it turns out that they were not or will not be allowed in. I ask for a recess, and I ask the Bureau to reply to the Members, whether it is really 20 Przemyśl nurses that we are afraid to let into the Sejm. Because we don't think so. As with any other party, they have the right to attend meetings of the Sejm committees, if this concerns their affairs. I would like the Bureau to explain to us, Members, why it is taking such decisions on our behalf, which, in my opinion, do not find acceptance of parliamentarians in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We're voting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u138	This is not a formal conclusion. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. [[Voice from the hall: This isn't about a break?]] [[But we're not voting on a request for a break?]] No, sir, we are not voting on a request for a break. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We should vote on this formal proposal.]] [[Voice from the room: Take a break.]] [[Point one, point one.]] [[Voice from the room: It will be here at 3 p.m. 22, ha, ha, ha.]] [[Quiet, let's give it a chance.]] [[Voice from the room: It's a break, that's enough.]] [[There's a break when the marshal announces a break.]] That is why I am not declaring a break. If you'd like to make a motion, sir, except for the votes. [[Voice from the hall: Can you explain to us the marshal?]] I don't have to. Please take the floor of Mr. Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the Chamber: Why isn't your marshal voting on a formal motion?]] Because I don't have to, sir. There you go. [[Voice from the hall: What do you mean you don't have to?]] [[A voice from the hall: Like a commune.]] [[Voice from the room: Can you explain this to us? Why doesn't your marshal follow the rules?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u139	Mrs. Marshal! It was a formal proposal, it would be appropriate to maintain the standards of parliamentarianism and to vote on this proposal. [[Voice from the room: Microphone not working.]] [[Voice from the room: Please, because time flies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u140	Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u141	I know you took a look at your minority, but today, one vote is that... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] May I? [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u142	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Too bad you don't have a finance minister. I was gonna say I understand her, of course. At the moment there is an election period and the budget has therefore been prepared for the elections. Probably next year, if you want to add some money again before the election, you're gonna have to update it. You guys are unbelievable. Where is the promise that you will reduce VAT from 23% to 22% and 7% ? There isn't. You're about to bring in a draft VAT raise bill for the next few years. Where's your promise to increase the tax-free amount? There isn't. You're just cheating. There are 34 new taxes, which means you should reduce the budget deficit. What are you doing? You're constantly increasing it because with these taxes, this budget is very high at this rate. All countries have a budget deficit, they have a budget surplus, you have a deficit. Two things. It would be good for the Ministry of Finance to set up a machine that is a tester for stupidity. So we put 700 zlotys in the machine, and we get 500 plus, because you've already pulled so much money out of the pocket of the Polish taxpayer, the one who got 500 plus. You rejected our bill on a balanced budget. As you can see, we have an effect. This year you gave millions to Rydzyk's father. I suggest that next year there's one department in the budget, which is Father Rydzyk and his foundations, because that would be cleaner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u144	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Michał Kaminski, PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This budget is always an element of philosophy, philosophy not only fiscal, but wider economic and social. Whose philosophy? Of course, the prime minister of the government, who presents such a budget. Unfortunately, the premiere isn't here today, he's out of the country, but his words are still there. Words that illustrate very well what this budget is meant to serve. The Prime Minister in a well-known conversation clearly states that the aspirations of the people are unrealistic. The people want free health care. The people want free education. The people want a lot of things for free at all, according to the Prime Minister. And that's not cool. Mr Morawiecki doesn't like it. What kind of way does he have to do that? The people must first be bought, they must be offered some interesting suggestions to support the government. But the Prime Minister also has proposals for the future. Then this people - I will say, because we are in parliament - is to work for a bowl of rice. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is used to buy voters for the next term of law and justice. Then you can realize the philosophy of Mateusz Morawiecki from a well-known conversation: working for a bowl of rice. That is the philosophy of this government. This is the philosophy of this banker, one of the biggest beneficiaries of sale of Polish banks to foreign capital, Mateusz Morawiecki. This is the philosophy of supermarkets in a small town. First, we lower prices to eliminate competition. And the competition is eliminated so she has to work for a bowl of rice. This budget includes enormous expenditure on government administration. There is only one element that justifies this: rising prices for energy and, for example, rising prices for heating. Yes, but millions of Poles must face the same expenses. Not just government administration. Poland deserves more than an alliance of greedy clergymen, greedy politicians of PiS and unwise, squandering our national wealth. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Communist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u146	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the hall: I'm not surprised at all.]] [[Voice from the room: They do not want to speak.]] In that case, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Budget debates not only in Poland, but around the world are an opportunity to not only assess the budget, but also look at the entire public finances, the economy or finally the financial situation of households. That is why I have allowed myself to choose a number of issues relating to these spheres. But in the beginning, one point of a formal nature. It is wrong if the Minister of Finance has only 15 minutes to present the issues of the entire state budget to the Sejm. I believe this is a reduction in the role of the Sejm. According to the draft budget law in 2019, the revenue is to be 388.6 billion, expenditure - 416 billion, and the deficit will be no more than 28.5 billion. At the same time, GDP growth of 3.8% is expected. So we see that the government is aware that the top, the peak of the economy, will be over. The price increase in consumer goods and services will be 2.3%, i.e. inflation returns. These figures and the entire budget, as we have heard, are a reason for the government's great satisfaction, even greater satisfaction from the chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, and delighted Mrs Zwierzan. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] First of all, because these numbers are good compared to previous years. In particular, the small size of the budget deficit is highlighted. It is indicated that it is one of the smallest in recent years. Against this background, the question arises as to why the 2019 budget contains a higher deficit than the one to be this year, 2018. It would appear from the statements of the representatives of the government and of the representatives of the PiS in the committee that this should not actually be the case. In her speech, the Minister - it was evident - was clearly concerned, at least indicating how best economic growth should be used, how best to make the most of the economy. But if we compare how other countries are taking advantage of economic prosperity and growth, with what is written in the Polish budget, we are not doing so well here, because, as has been pointed out from this tribune, a dozen EU countries will have budget surpluses and our deficit, even though compared to other years, will be among the highest. It must be said, then, that governments of other countries can benefit from the economic situation better than ours. Unfortunately, ours couldn't get to the budget with the surplus. And yet, everything points to the fact that, as I said before, the peak is over. The situation of our budget and public finances would undoubtedly be much better if the PiS government, after having come to power, did not tamper with the PO-PSL government's policy of stabilising expenditure. If it were in force today and those rigours were in force, the budget results would be much better and the 2019 budget plan would have to be better. Please, in the introduction to the justification of the draft budget law, it can be read that the directions of economic development of Poland for the coming years are indicated by the strategy for responsible development by 2020, with a view to 2030. I looked at this document and on p. 11 I read that the investment rate is expected to increase from 20.1% in 2015 to 22 and 25% in 2020. In fact, the investment rate has started since 2015 but not in this direction, which is assumed by the strategy. Well, it's not growing, it's falling. At the end of the second quarter this year. was 17.8% Which means she's been at the lowest level in 20 years. The reason is simple - uncertainty of entrepreneurs about the future. You can ask here when in terms of investment we will achieve the success we recorded in 2015. When will we reach this level from 2015? It's not gonna happen yet, but maybe the government has some plans in this area. The Ministry of Finance, as the Minister said here, cares about improving the situation of households. There is no doubt that rising taxes affect the situation of households, that inflation, which returns, affects and will affect the situation of households. If we also look at the bills that we have to pay for our household, we see a very high increase in this regard. Kantar Millward Brown, as a result of the research carried out in connection with the report of the Polish statistical portal, indicates that spending of Polish households on various types of fees and bills has increased in the last 3 years, i.e. in the times of the PiS government, by 61%. Today it is PLN 1572 whereas 3 years ago it was PLN 976. Gas bills rose most - 73% , current - 65% and water - 56%. At the same time, the minimum wage increased by 20% and the average wage in the enterprise sector by 23%. This is shown by the selected materials and assessments concerning the deficit itself, investment as well as household expenditure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u148	Member Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the debate on next year's budget, the government is mainly boasting of a low budget deficit. I have a lot of doubts as to whether, in the current economic situation, it is something to be proud of when it comes to comparing to other countries of the European Union, which is worth paying attention to. Are we not forgetting something even more important in this discussion? A brief reminder at first. It is still worth recalling what was one of the main charges against the governments of the predecessor state, i.e. the Civic Platform and the PSL, i.e. about a huge public debt, which is still growing at an express rate. The public debt currently amounts to PLN 1084 billion and the debt per capita amounts to PLN 28 574 which accounts for 54.9% GDP. In order to see how large the amounts are, it is worth reminding yourself that for this amount you could build 1,400 km or 500 national stadiums. This debt will be increased by PLN 289 million per day, PLN 12 million per hour and PLN 3386 per second. At the end of December, it will be 29 256 PLN per capita. Hidden public debt, which is no less important, amounts to as much as PLN 3304 billion, i.e. more than 87 thousand. PLN per capita, i.e. 167.1% GDP. This is all in a situation where the global economic situation is very good. Unfortunately, our government eats money instead of saving it. Here we come to the mentioned at the beginning of the deficit. Its maximum level recorded in the draft budget is 1.8% GDP. It should be made clear that, with this good economic situation in the context of other EU countries, it is still a great deal. It is enough to realise that it gives us a fifth place in this category among the countries of the European Union, but from the end. [[That's not true.]] Only Romania, France, Hungary and Spain will have major budget deficits next year. Moreover, as many as 13 EU countries will not have a deficit at all. These countries include not only richer countries than us, such as Germany, Sweden or the Netherlands, but also those with which we can easily compare: the Czech Republic, Croatia, Estonia, Lithuania or Slovenia. Why should we be worse? Moreover, experts are very pessimistic on this issue and predict that in the course of budgetary negotiations the expenditure ceiling will be raised in order to improve the government's image before the parliamentary elections, and the upcoming economic downturn may negatively translate into tax revenue, which will result in a deficit of the entire public finance sector at 2.2.2% GDP. I hope that the Prime Minister will not make Poland look like a grasshopper, who in the poem of the French novelist is very cold. He realized, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just that, unlike... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to a busy ant he didn't spare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u150	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u151	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! In the state budget, a very important item - not only in the state budget but in general in the country - is the agricultural heading. I would like to add some of my observations to this chapter, to the chapter on Polish agriculture, mainly on rural areas, because not only are we talking about agriculture, we are not only talking about farmers, but we are talking about a large part of Poland, about agricultural areas. First of all, I think that you have already noticed that the government of Mateusz Morawiecki presented a plan for the village, which works primarily to strengthen the role of the farmer in the entire food chain. So far -- you have to hit your chest here -- our predecessors didn't fight for it, they didn't make sure that the farmer in this whole food chain had a strong position. We know that the farmer has the weakest position, and we need such action, a plan to strengthen the farmer's position in this whole chain. The food chain is the whole way of agricultural products from field to table. You know, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment it happens that supermarkets, companies, they give tones in this food chain. They're the ones who are strong, they're lobbying, they're the ones who use farmers very often. I must say, this is an act against farmers. Dear country, if raspberries cost a few pennies at the farmer's place, and the same raspberries cost more than PLN 5.6 in supermarkets, if the potato costs 20 gr at the farmer's farm, in wholesale, and the same potato in the supermarket costs PLN 2.20.2,40, you can see that this is a disadvantage, either it is the exploitation of the Polish farmer, but also of the Polish consumer - because it is the Polish consumer who buys goods in these supermarkets, often questionable quality, much more expensive, with big bedspreads, simply using the Polish farmer. Therefore, this rural plan proposed by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki goes primarily in this direction to strengthen the role of the farmer, so that the farmer in this chain has a significant position. And now the numbers, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, in order to strengthen this role, for a farmer's position to be strong, some money must also be given. Therefore, the state budget is planned for next year, dear country, by PLN 320 million more for excise duty on agricultural fuel. Very often, Members of the opposition say to introduce agricultural fuel. Why introduce agricultural fuel, as we know, that agricultural fuel excise duty can be deducted? The government of Mateusz Morawiecki increased the amount for this excise duty by PLN 320 million. At the moment this amount for excise duty for the Polish farmer will be PLN 1180 million. This is a record amount, so far there has never been such an amount for a Polish farmer. We also have problems, ladies and gentlemen, and that must be said. The problem is, among other things. ASF. ASF is a problem and the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, the government of Law and Justice has been very strongly engaged in the fight against ASF from the very beginning. But we need resources to fight the ASF, too. Therefore, for next year, 2019 the amount for the fight against ASF was increased, for the fight against infectious diseases by PLN 200 million. I hope that next year will be this crucial year, that we will deal with ASF in Poland. It will benefit all of us, beyond political divisions - and for those sitting on the left, and for those sitting on the right - but above all for the Polish economy and for the Polish farmer. Ladies and gentlemen! For all of this to work, so that the Polish farmer is strong for the development of Polish agriculture to be strong, education is needed. Therefore, the State budget for 2019 provides for PLN 45 million, with more than PLN 45 million more funding for education. The professor's looking at me. I think the professor agrees with me that education in Poland, here, in this section, in the agricultural department, is very important. Therefore, the Law and Justice Government transfers PLN 45 million more money to schools. But this knowledge needs to be given to the farmer, because knowledge itself, if it were to remain only in universities, only in institutes, would not be enough. There's a need for strong agricultural advice. Agricultural advice has so far been destroyed in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I could say a lot about this, because I know exactly that. The transfer to the ODR marshals, what the previous coalition did, destroyed agricultural advice in Poland. We need to rebuild this. Therefore, the 2019 budget provides for PLN 41 million more for agricultural advice. The point is that this knowledge developed in institutes, at universities go under the ward, go to farmers, go to the Polish village, so that this Polish village develops very strongly. [[I'm afraid you might still have it at home. Nobody's got an otter in the house.]] The next thing that happened this year - but not just this year, ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone will agree with me - there are various cataclysms. It's a drought case. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been through this. We know that this year the government of Law and Justice, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, has allocated PLN 1.5 billion. That's also a record number. No one has so far allocated such large amounts to the fight against cataclysm, to the fight against drought. This is the first government to spend so much money, 1.5 billion PLN. But that's not all. Next year it is expected to cover the drought by PLN 90 million more - by PLN 90 million more so that it can be insured against the risk of drought. These are very important matters for Polish agriculture. But the policy pursued so far by our predecessors has led to the fact that we have many farms in Poland, which are on the verge of bankruptcy. The government of Mateusz Morawiecki, the government of Law and Justice sees these farmers, knows that these farmers must be helped. Therefore, the 2019 budget allocated PLN 200 million - ladies and gentlemen, PLN 200 million - to the restructuring of agricultural holdings that need State aid. After all, if we do not have strong agriculture, our Polish markets will flood this food with very often questionable quality. Ladies and gentlemen! One more thing: EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we learned here, from this speaker, how strongly the Polish farmer was robbed by groups - I would not like to use big words here: they are called producer groups, but they were mafia groups - which used EU funds. We know how much money these mob groups stole from the Polish farmer's budget, from our Polish budget. That is why the government of Mateusz Morawiecki will ensure that EU funds are used by farmers, not by those mafia groups which have used the EU budget, the Polish budget, but mostly used the Polish farmer, and no one has ever taken care of it. This is the first government to take care of this, sealing this use of EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up what I have said so far, I think it is best to quote the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who spoke on this speaker a few days ago. He said, and it illustrates the approach of the Government of Law and Justice to an important issue such as agriculture, its place in the state budget, how important agricultural matters are in Poland: There will be no strong Polish economy without strong agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u152	Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u153	Ladies and gentlemen! Your marshal, by the way, when you're done with this phone call, I'd like to use my vote to ask, because we didn't understand the basis on which your marshal didn't vote on the formal motion that I made, because so far we're going into the head, which recipe you're allowing us to just... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u154	Mr President, the rule resulting from the Rules of Procedure. [[Time's running out.]] [[Voice from the room: Time flies.]] You have repeatedly appealed to the Bureau and to the Convention. You have your representatives in the Bureau and in the Convention and all your doubts can be answered. [[Your marshal is taking time.]] Now, get to the point. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u155	I just want to point out that you just don't follow the rules of the Sejm...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u156	And I suggest: about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u157	...and the Marshal of the Sejm should be the first to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u158	That's your opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u159	Ladies and gentlemen! I will read a fragment of the budget document, which is quite important, which speaks about the fiscal policies of the state, what you are following. This passage reads: The Ecofin Council issued 11 July this year. to Poland, the recommendation to limit the nominal growth rate of aggregate expenditure as defined by the European Commission, taking into account discretionary revenue measures. This is really due to the fact that the European Commission or the Ecofin Council, in which, let me remind you, we also sit, say that we should reduce spending, adjust the pace of expenditure growth to the pace of economic growth. This is a clear warning, ladies and gentlemen, because this question has been raised here many times. To what extent are you ready? Because, of course, we can be content, like some of you, with the calming tones of Mr Morawiecki, but we know that Mr Morawiecki can say contradictory things. He can take such a position on the matter one day, and on the other day he can have a completely different opinion. And even the courts force Mr. Morawiecki to tell the truth because he has a problem, as we can see. Why am I talking about this? Because for us as responsible people, Mr Morawiecki's word that everything is safe is not enough. The question is: How do you prepare us for difficult times? Remember the green island? You remember the green island, you laugh at it because you didn't have any consequences. You didn't have any consequences at a time when there was a crisis in Europe and the world, a giant crisis, and we managed to maintain the security of public finances, the security of the state budget, security... [[Game in the O.R.]] Could you ask your friend to keep her voice down?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u160	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u161	Well, you're still letting her talk. We've managed to secure... But it bothers me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u162	Don't listen, just say yours. You're bothering others sometimes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u163	You're not a marshal, you're just a PiS officer, that's the truth. And that proves you on every...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u164	Mr President, you have repeatedly disturbed others, [[Applause]] So focus on your speech, not tell me what to do. Seriously, don't advertise your election campaign. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u165	Ma'am, your marshal, you're the only thing he can do to me...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u166	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u167	...it bothers me, and then... But you're still bothering me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u168	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u169	You keep bothering me. Would you mind not disturbing me?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u170	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u171	We want to make sure that Poland is safe and you will prepare us well for the crisis, because it is not art to say today: 23 billion PLN. And what if GDP falls by 1 and 2 percentage points? And what if the stability of the Polish currency... I'm not saying that we're going to have a turbulent situation at Turkish level, but you have a very similar policy in Turkey. And who's to say that the world markets aren't gonna turn on us and we're gonna have trouble lending our own economy? This is the moment, and we have a deficit today. Now, when something bad happens, we will not finance this expenditure and we will have a deficit not at the level of 20, 30 or 40, but 140 billion PLN. At the same time, you say... There is such contradiction, because you are boasting about the increase in spending on local government roads in this campaign, but in this budget, as we will look at local government subsidies on property expenditure - Mr Cymanski knows what it means - it is clear, Mr President, if we compare it with 2015, our last budget, the last previous government, that property expenditure is less than 100%. Exactly in this budget, expenditure on grants to local governments for property expenditure is 96.8% less than in the 2015 budget Are you the local government? Well, that's the truth of Moravian. He goes out and says we'll give twice as much, the court straightens him out, and the budget you're bringing here is 96%. less expenditure on grants to local governments for property expenditure. Ninety-six percent. smaller. Well, there's a scam. [[Snapshots, snatshots.]] Well, it's in your budget. Look at this. For grants to local governments. Oh, I see, you've increased it here, and you've reduced it by 100%. [[Revenue, condition...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u172	Gentlemen, would you mind not discussing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u173	It's kind of your hand. [[You have to read with understanding.]] To sum up, this budget is a very dangerous budget, because it does not guarantee us that, in case - God forbid - something bad will happen, and it is not dependent on you, because only you think that the situation in Poland depends on what President Kaczyński decides... The situation in Poland is complicated and depends on the situation on the world markets, on the economic situation of our biggest partners, on the situation in China - and it is not known whether it is stable - and on geopolitical security. [[Elementary, Elementary.]] And you do not guarantee geopolitical security in Poland either. And at the same time you have a record deficit - a record deficit - and at that time you are stealing from local governments. I'm sorry, but I have to use that word. You're taking money from local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u174	I now ask Mrs Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice cooperates with local governments and supports local authorities, local authorities and district authorities. Greater cooperation between local authorities and the government and additional programmes addressed to the local community are not everything. For the sustainable development of our country, in order to ensure comfortable living standards for Poles regardless of which part of the country or city they live in, many actions are needed in many areas of social and economic life. Let us return for a moment, High Izbo, to the years 2008 and 2015 when the government of the Civic Platform and PSL transferred tasks to local governments that it could not achieve. At that time, the rulers in our country did not transfer money to carry out their tasks. The local authorities have calculated how much it has cost to carry out these additional tasks. It was an excellent sum - a total of about PLN 8 billion. In order not to disappoint the inhabitants of their municipalities and carry out the imposed tasks, the glazers indebted their municipalities. The policy of the Civic Platform and PSL government has led to the fact that over the past years the municipalities have not reached EU funding for the necessary investments because they do not have their own contributions and have no credit capacity because they have been indebted by the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Applause]] [[Three years...]] Today, in order to get local governments out of the ambush of passiveness, the government of Law and Justice corresponds to the introduction of a number of programmes. [[Hello! 3 years.]] I will only mention introduced from 1 April this year. Local road development programme with 80% funding, i.e. funding which the municipalities have never received from the government so far, in addition to the tasks which are the tasks of the municipalities themselves. The government of Mateusz Morawiecki recognizes the danger of stagnation. Those self-government officials who are interested in the development of their municipalities and submit well-prepared proposals, the government supports significant grants. For this purpose, funds are secured both in the state budget and in numerous programmes. By sealing the VAT collection system, the Government of Law and Justice can implement these programs. And here, dear Poles, is the difference between the policy of governing the Civic Platform and PSL and the policy of law and justice, the policy of cooperation with the local government. High Izbo! We are debating the state budget plan for 2019, which is the third budget of this government and the third development budget and supporting those who are harder to overcome their own tasks, including local authorities. The largest share of budget expenditure is subsidies and subsidies. They account for about 53.5% all expenditure. For 2019, the government planned a general subsidy of 60 762 707 thousand in the budget. zł. It's 7.6%. higher than for 2018. On the other hand, the educational subsidy, which is part of the general subsidy, was designed by the government in the amount of 45 907 497 thousand. zł and it is larger by 6.6% than planned for 2018, despite its reduction by 1875 thousand. PLN due to the transfer of school management, i.e. acquisition of agricultural schools by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. That's the amount of 1875,000. PLN was sent to the Ministry for running these schools. Education subsidy for 2019 is increasing despite a reduced number of pupils. The amount of the subsidy shall take into account the financial implications of the 5% increase that teachers will receive from January 2019 and the increases they have received since April 2019 and the effects of changes in the number and promotion of teachers' posts. Also higher by 9.3% than in 2018, a compensatory part of the general subsidy was planned, which amounts to 8 190 531 thousand. zł. It will in part be transferred as a basic amount to municipalities whose tax revenue in 2017 per capita was less than 92% the average basic income of all municipalities per capita in the country. The remaining compensatory part of the general subsidy will be added to municipalities where the population density is lower than the average in the country and the basic income per capita is not greater than 150% the average basic income per resident of the country. Large, because as much as 12.6%, the government assumes an increase in the amount of the compensatory general subsidy for the county. The planned amount for this purpose is 2 342 625 thousand. zł. This amount will be allocated in part to powiats on the basis of income from taxes on natural and legal persons and in part to powiats with a high unemployment rate. On the other hand, for the compensatory part of the general subsidy for voivodships, the government allocates an amount of 1 392 732 thousand. zł. It's an amount of as much as 18.2%. higher than the amount planned for the current year. The criterion for allocating this amount will be the income from PIT and CIT per capita. For a grant to local government units to finance tasks in the field of government administration, to finance their own tasks and tasks carried out under agreements, the government has planned an amount of 42 750 002 000. zł. During the financial year, this amount shall be increased, as every year, from the appropriations planned in the special provisions. The largest amounts, because in total 97.1% the total amount of grants, allocated to family expenditure. For this purpose, the government has planned an amount of 34 079 268 thousand. PLN, of which 20 750,000. zł is guaranteed for the payment of the educational benefit under the "Family 500+. 12,000,000. PLN is planned for family benefits, allowances for this benefit, care allowances, special welfare benefits, care benefits, parental benefits and maintenance benefits. 940 815,000. zł is used for the implementation of the "Good start' programme. This is a benefit of PLN 300 per child for expenditure related to school education. It is a program that frees families from the problem of equiping their children to school and frees them from the danger of borrowing only because children go to school. 2,724 258,000. zł The government allocates to social assistance tasks, including the local authorities' own tasks. And the government is planning to fund 1 292 111 thousand. zł own responsibility of the municipality in the field of payment of fixed and periodic allowances. The government also secures the amount of 431 613 thousand for its own task. zł - for the activities of social assistance centres. For the next task, which is the task of its own municipalities, and is very important from a social point of view, the government secures 350 000 000. zł - to feed children in schools. 466 082 000 zł. The government proposes to secure support centres for people with mental disorders. The State budget also secures funds for subsidies to powiats amounting to 4 999 676 thousand. of which 2 328 608 thousand. PLN is used for public safety and fire protection, and 2, 327 550 thousand. PLN for district commands of the State Fire Service. In addition, the government secures 845 570 000 in the budget to finance the maintenance of over-the-counter social assistance houses. zł. High Izbo! A significant part, because as much as 44 890 080 thousand. zł, the funds secured by the state budget in grants, the voivodships will be transferred to the local authorities concerned during the financial year, within the framework of their tasks, using their statutory powers. For 2019, the Council of Ministers planned 49 277 128 thousand for expenditure carried out by voivodships. PLN, including 177 114 thousand. PLN for property expenditure and 271 207 thousand PLN to co-finance projects involving European Union funds. In the voivodship budgets, the largest group of expenditure is grants and subsidies, which account for 91.1% the total amount of expenditure. As I said earlier, this amounts to 44 89080 thousand. zł. From total expenditure planned in the voivodship budgets for the functioning of voivodship offices, the government proposes to allocate an amount of 1.8% of these expenditures, i.e. 915 912 thousand. zł, for the functioning of voivodship offices. The Government of Law and Justice is the first government to ensure that all Poles, and not only colleagues of those who rule, benefit from the economic growth of the Polish economy, as was the case during the times of the Civil Platform and PSL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u176	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at the gallery, guests are listening to our deliberations. We greet them very much. And these are people from the National Association of Sołtys from the municipality of Kawęczyn in the Turkish district, welcome to the countries, [[Applause]] and a group of people from Piskorowice, the municipality of Leżajsk in Podkarpacie, welcome. [[Applause]] And please take the floor of Mr Czesław Mrok, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important responsibilities of the State is to carry out defence tasks. In a few sentences in a short speech, I would like to illustrate some of the very negative trends that we have been dealing with recently, i.e. under the PiS. Ladies and gentlemen, although the PiS declares the need for an increase in national defence expenditure, in fact, the measures resulting from a 2% statutory charge GDP spends on other tasks. This is described in detail in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2016 and 2017. The 2017 report is particularly shocking. We are also dealing with this in 2018 as part of the current implementation of expenditure, but this budget brings a deepening of this phenomenon - once again, I want to stress this - the transfer of funds legally earmarked for defence to other objectives of the state. This is unacceptable not only from the point of view that it is a fraud, but above all because defence tasks really require more investment. [[Applause]] You do terrible things and I'll tell you who's talking. You use the money that taxpayers transfer to the budget with a view to national defence, to actions related to the implementation of police modernisation tasks. You are transferring money to the construction of district shooting galleries, and now a law will be adopted stating that 500 million dollars per year will be allocated to the military from national defence funds to the military, that is to say, to the implementation of road construction tasks. However, it is even worse in this calculation - in total it goes into billions of zlotys - that is, you have committed funds dedicated to national defence to the purchase of five aircraft for the carriage of the most important people in the country, to the transport of power. And here is a unique curiosity, namely this programme set in 2016 with a limit of PLN 1700 million was to be financed by funds from outside the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that everyone check this fact for the last 3 years - 2016, 2017 and 2018 - the annexes to the State budget state states that this programme will be financed by non-budget funds. This year it is envisaged to finance this programme from Part 29, from national defence funds. Instead of PLN 1700 million, you spent PLN 3 billion 100 on this programme and will be financed entirely from national defence funds. The second negative phenomenon, I ask you countries, which should be noted, is that under the PiS, the maintenance expenditure of the Armed Forces is increasing, while expenditure on the development of the Armed Forces is decreasing. Instead of buying modern equipment, helicopters, submarines, submarines, unmanned aerial systems, promised drones, you repair the T-72 tanks and Mi-24 choppers. [[Scandal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently witnessed an expedition to Australia for frigates. That's the scale, and that's the way you're doing things. It was supposed to buy used frigates, ultimately this escapad, because otherwise it could not be called, ended with no effects. You can't see, ladies and gentlemen, the chances of implementing basic modernization programs for the Armed Forces that would provide our Armed Forces with modern equipment. How are defence expenses implemented by this government? The outstanding advances at the end of 2017 as reported by the Supreme Audit Chamber were already PLN 9 billion. Instead of buying modern equipment and paying for this equipment, you contract advances. I do not know how much - we will see about that - there will be advance payments at the end of 2018. If you would like to show us important projects for the army, which were carried out with the participation of the Polish defence industry. The last major projects that you have managed to implement were those that were prepared by us in a long-term process. Armatohaubica Krab, mortar Cancer, large projects for the steelworks Wola, for the Polish industry, which give jobs, give the future, give the Polish product. What Polish product can you show as the achievements of your three-year government? Nothing. You bought... [[Game in the O.R.]] And good, after years, late. You've signed a contract - to be delivered far away - to the air defense system. What is the share of the Polish defence industry? 4%. And in those planes for the carriage of the most important people in the country? Zero. That's your state defense policy. Suspension of the system, process of acquiring modern equipment, advances, transfer of funds to other areas and collapse of the Polish defence industry. In the Polish defence industry, on our... At the moment, the headship of the Polish Armed Group was replaced for the fourth time. We have the fourth president of the Polish Armed Group. Who became this president? Deputy Minister of Development. Who became vice president? Deputy Minister of National Defence. A mess in ministries and a mess in the Polish Armed Group. This is the result of your actions. Finally, a brief summary of the Territorial Defence Army. This is what we talked about this morning. For several years now, we have been spending powerful resources on this task. That this formation did not take part in very important rescue operations related to the storm in several voivodships, we had a chance to find out. Very serious resources are allocated to this formation every year. This year, ladies and gentlemen, these measures are planned in the amount - without the purchase of modern weapons, for the operation of this unit - almost PLN 500 million. Military Police, which is 3,000. soldiers - PLN 300 million. And now note: for Special Forces, which were a card of Polish Armed Forces - 350 million PLN. And when will these troops be formed? Today we could see that, about 2024, 2025. These Territorial Defence Forces are such a symbol or summary of your governments. Great declarations - practically no meaningful implementation. A halted process of modernization, they left the army to the key commander, the Polish industry is failing. It's about your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u178	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft 2019 budget in the health section on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I am honoured because the analysis of the data contained in the draft budget clearly indicates that the Government of Law and Justice, with unprecedented determination and consequence, increases the expenditure on health protection, thereby safeguarding the health status of our society. The following data show this. Health expenditure will increase significantly in 2019 compared to expenditures in 2018. Both those funds included in the State budget and those included in the special funds and in the budget of the NFZ according to the budget plan will amount to PLN 97,6 billion, i.e. by 7.6 billion more compared to the previous year, and let me remind you that we have already increased these expenditures significantly in the previous year. After our predecessors we received such a condition that expenditure on health protection, comparable in this part, amounted to annually, at least in the last year, which we received in the legacy, about 74 billion PLN, i.e. more than 20 billion PLN from the budget is spent on health protection. Thus, the government extremely consistently, extremely responsible and rationally divides the effects of economic growth in terms of different social needs, including, above all, health protection. These measures constitute, ladies and gentlemen, 4.92% GDP. And here's the question: how does this relate to the amounts planned for health protection according to the timetable that is supposed to lead us to 6%? ? The Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds of 5 July 2018 shows that in order to reach 6%, we should have these expenditures at 4.86% for 2019. Please note that in the draft budget we have more expenditure than the minimum of the Act amending the Law on healthcare provision, more than PLN 1.2 billion higher than the reference value contained in the Act. So we have more than we would have to have in accordance with the requirements of the bill. Therefore, these allegations were unfounded, and there are such allegations, doubts that we will not reach this 6% threshold and that these are uncoverable promises on our part. In the draft state budget for 2019, expenditure in the health department planned in various parts of the budget amounts to PLN 8248 million, which represents an increase of over PLN 950 million compared to 2018. If we take into account the expenditure included in the other special provisions available to the Minister of Health, part 46 of the European budget, in the Fund's plan for Guaranteed Occupational Benefits expenditure on internships and medical specialisations and in the plan for the Fund for the Solution of Gambling Problems, the government has planned funds of PLN 11 646 million for health protection, i.e. 1.4 billion more than in the previous year, 2018. Now the question arises, which tasks are mainly intended for this money. The measures for the implementation of health policy programmes, which for many years caused great concern for both Poles and employees of various healthcare professionals, have been increased by more than PLN 61 million, up to a total amount of PLN 1046 million, which will ensure the financing of 17 programmes implemented by the Minister of Health, including two very important multiannual programmes, namely in the area of cancer and transplantation. They were also ridiculed, criticized, called into question the funding of medicines for people over 75 years of age, minimized these issues and the effectiveness of this. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 for this purpose, for medicines for people over 75 years of age, about PLN 733 million will flow from the state budget. This is also an increase compared to the previous year, by 90 million. Therefore, older people who use these free medicines can be calm - the programme will be implemented and I think that the range of these medicines, the types of medicines will be expanded. Among these expenditures is also the implementation of high-specialist services. The funds here have been increased by over PLN 94 million to PLN 544 million, and we are convinced that the government is convinced that this is a safeguard of health needs in this area. The special-purpose reserve also includes a total of PLN 90 million intended for increases for nurses and midwives in units subordinate to the Minister of Health and in voivodeship and district sanitary and epidemiological stations, as well as an increase in salaries for staff of medicinal entities as a result of the Act of 8 June 2017, in short, with the lowest minimum salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. Important expenditure from the budget in Part 46 relates to expenditure on the implementation of investments in hospitals. This concerns both the construction and the equipment of these units, entities. There is a planned amount of PLN 551 million, of which 467 million concerns seven multi-annual investment programmes in Cracow, Gdańsk, Łódź, Bydgoszcz, Lublin and Zabrze. It should be stressed here that, at the same time, the Ministry has developed and introduced a system for assessing the effectiveness of these investments, so-called. The IWICH system. This is an extremely valuable system because IOWISZ allows you to objective decisions on the allocation of grants for construction investments and equipment in individual hospitals. So the practice ended with those who had influence, most often on the political line at the Ministry of Health. This is an extremely important issue, because we all want not only to increase the resources for health care, but to make every dollar there spent in the right place and bring the greatest results, and we are dealing with the situation that some individuals have been overinvested, and in other, especially county hospitals, lack for example. Magnetic resonances and patients are driven several dozen kilometers away, often severely ill, because there is no way to perform such treatments anywhere nearer. And here I would very much like to congratulate and stress that the Ministry of Health understands this problem, and for the purchase of magnetic resonances also provided additional resources. I know this problem with regard to Lublin voivodship when it comes to county hospitals - in this respect so far there has been a very bad situation. For 2019 funds were secured for the implementation of tasks resulting from the Act on State Medical Rescue, as well as measures for IT activities in health care. Expenditure for this purpose will amount to about PLN 160 million. Here too we are catching up and neglecting our predecessors managing the resort in recent years. For financing and co-financing projects involving EU funds for 2019 in Part 46: Health in the State budget, national and European budgets, a total of 949 538 000 is planned. PLN against 628 506 thousand. in 2018, which means an increase of 51% compared to the plan in the 2018 Budget Act. In the state budget, this increase is 3,9% but the budget of European funds has increased by 62.4%. Such a very clear growth cannot be unnoticed either by opponents or oppositions. This indicates the importance of European Union funding in the following areas: Health. In view of the expected performance of tasks exceeding those included in the 2019 Budget Act, appropriations are planned in the special provisions. Their total amount is estimated to be over PLN 522 million. Thus, assuming full use of reserves in 2019, the spending of funds from Part 46: Health can be expected to be at the level of PLN 1472 million. As far as post-graduate internships and specializations are concerned, it has raised many concerns for years, and problems have been growing for years - also in this respect the government has faced problems. In 2019 doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives, i.e. post-graduate internships, and specializations were planned in the financial plan of the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund by more than PLN 1 billion than in 2018, i.e. a total of PLN 2.2 billion. And this amount will be allocated to: financing compulsory postgraduate traineeships for over 4.5 thousand. doctors, dentists who took an internship in 2018 and previous years, as well as for approx. 4.6 thousand. next year graduates of medical and dental faculties - in the amount of over PLN 232 million, taking into account the effects of the increase in 2018 and 2019 of basic salaries of trainees. This amount will also be allocated to the financing of approx. 22,000. a resident of over PLN 2 billion on an unprecedented scale, taking into account the effects of raising the basic salaries of residents, financing a higher basic salary in exchange for the obligation of the resident to pursue a profession in Poland for 2 years after the end of the specialization, the financing of medical shifts resulting from the specialization program. In 2019 it is planned to launch 600 residents in the spring selection procedure and 3,600 residents in the autumn selection procedure. A minimum of 8490 training places for the specialization of nurses and midwives will also be financed, and the amount of PLN 9 million is allocated for this purpose. It also requires that the budget of the voivodships for financing medical rescue teams is planned for PLN 2157 million, which is also more than 270 million more than in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, these are data which clearly indicate an increased funding for the health needs of Poles from public funds. When we have analysed, and I have done this, it seems to me quite in detail, the task budget which shows how the basic objectives of the state of protection are being pursued, enhancing the health safety of society, which are measured by means of certain indicators adopted to measure the level of performance of tasks, are, of course, all, almost all, actually in the majority, of the indicators for 2019 exceed the basic values adopted, can be assessed positively, and can be hoped for a real improvement in the health situation. Naturally, we will not solve all problems within 3 or 4 years. [[But maybe one?]] They have accumulated and intensified over the years. There are different problems, for example. hospital debt, too low valuation of points in terms of benefits primary psychiatry, where in psychiatric hospitals these points are too low, according to employees, valued, e.g. at the level of PLN 11.70, which does not allow to cover the basic costs, while the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification proposes a settlement rate of 14%. There are still big problems to solve. This is also true, for example. to unequal treatment in terms of treatment of addictions and psychiatric care in individual voivodships, in terms of distribution of funds. All these problems are still ahead of us. If we have good will and we carry out these tasks responsibly, we still have an optimistic approach to the fact that Poles can hope for considerable improvement next year in terms of meeting their health needs, which we very much wish them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a lie.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u180	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u181	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I don't see the Prime Minister. I don't see the Deputy Prime Minister. I would also like to address those government representatives who are here. The budget is an important issue, so there are no prime minister and no deputy prime minister. But since the Prime Minister isn't in the body, let him be present in the spirit. Here is my favorite quote: The information given by me on 15 September 2018 during the election rally of the Election Committee of Law and Justice in Świebodzin is incorrect, that within one to one year and a half we spend more money on local roads than during the coalition of PO and PSL in 8 years. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. [[Liar.]] And what exactly is this budget? It's an investment budget collapse, in any case a regression. Why? The government boasts that it will increase expenditure on national roads from 4.3 billion this year to 4.5 billion PLN next year, but in terms of total expenditure - because we need to add up expenditure from the budget and from the National Road Fund - it intends to cut from 20.4 billion to 19.3. That means next year we'll spend over 1 billion less on roads. [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] It's a disaster. Why the regress if it's so good? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Why this regression when the Prime Minister goes around saying he's spending more and more? If Resolution 156/2015 of the PO-PSL coalition government of 8 September 2015 were implemented, the expenditure on national roads would be 25.3 billion next year. That wouldn't be a record yet, but that would be a significant amount. The record so far unbeatable, from 2011, is 26 billion. [[Applause]] It's worth reminding us of this data. In total, for 8 years the government of the Platform and PSL coalition spent PLN 134.5 billion on roads. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] If the PiS government had implemented at least its own resolution of July 2017, these expenditures would have been cut by 16 billion in 2016 and not by 26 billion in the years 2016 and 2019. You're constantly reducing road infrastructure expenditure. This is gonna get revenge. Why would he get revenge? Because we need to spend European funds. These measures must be spent, which through the negotiations of the Civic Platform government have been negotiated in Brussels and guaranteed for the Republic of Poland for the development of infrastructure. And because you're cutting back on that expense, we're not going to use everything and we're going to return it. What then? Who will bear political responsibility? You also want to develop local roads. The government has designed the Self-Government Road Fund, but the result of this design is to delete the financing of the multi-annual programme of development of municipal and district road infrastructure for the years 2016-2019, for which measures were foreseen in the draft budget law for 2019. The campaign started, you started with a draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund. And surprise - yesterday, the motion to reject this project was voted out, we will continue to work on this bill, but no one is in a hurry. Nobody's in a hurry anymore. The committee meeting that was scheduled has been cancelled. A second deadline has been set for tomorrow, but this meeting has also been cancelled, Mr President. The campaign is going on, the project is announced, but there's no rush. It's a fake. The facts are that the measures you are expecting to be issued in the following years since 2016 are less than those which were issued in 2015, by PLN 200 million. That's a fact. How much has the Platform government invested in local roads? It's worth remembering - 5400 million. [[Applause]] How much was built for this? 14 800 km of local roads, of which 1000 km on green land. It's also worth reminding. The PiS government cannot handle the use of European Union funds. In 2016, he spent PLN 5.2 billion on co-financing EU projects. This is 3.5 billion less than it was spent in 2015. In 2017, he spent even less than in 2016. What will happen if we have to return European money? And since it will not be easy to spend, this is another proof - the reply to the parliamentary interpellation by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, who is sitting here in the Chamber because he is interested in the budget for next year, unlike the prime ministers of the Polish government. The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel replied. And what does it turn out to be? 11 contracts concluded between 2017 and 2018 ended with contracts of an amount higher than the one originally foreseen for the implementation of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. It shows you're building more expensive... [[Disgraceful!]] ...that you're building very expensive. We can point out specific cases, but that's not the point. Talking about the budget is talking about the economy, and the economy started to get bad. The price of building materials increases, the price of energy increases. We all know that the result of the increase in energy costs will be a significant increase in investment prices. There will also be a problem with rail transport, because the price of tickets will increase. And that's the truth about the 2019 budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u182	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by saying that well done is always better than what is well said. [[To PiS with this.]] Perhaps you speak nicely, but we do, we do, we do, we do consistently. [[Applause]] Well done is better than what is well said. [[And you're a gypsy.]] [[You're breaking the constitution, that's a fact.]] Maybe a few facts. Ladies and gentlemen, it came to me on behalf of my parliamentary club to report part 39: Transport, and I would like your attention, because I'm going to be specific. For 2019 transport expenditure is planned for a total of 41 130 470 000. Road infrastructure: over PLN 19 billion. 104.21% compared to 2018. Criticize math. Rail transport: more than 17 billion. For rail infrastructure: 15 billion, for national investments on railway lines: 11 billion - 144% in relation to 2018. Ladies and gentlemen... [[But you're not making any of this work.]] Madam President, I am about to talk about implementation. Construction, reconstruction of railway stations: 317 million. [[Voice from the room: We were building it.]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, for Kazimierz the Great.]] Rail passenger transport: 141% in relation to 2018. Co-financing of inter-voivodship and international rail services: 108% in relation to 2018. [[Thanks, Pendolino.]] Come on, criticize math. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have a lot of achievements in infrastructure projects carried out by the European Union together with the expenditure of the Centre for EU Transport Projects: metro, trams, etc. It's all secured, it's over PLN 4 billion for 2018. Many of your fellow Members today referred to the budget of this year, but in the context of others, you even reached the year 2023, in short, you talked about the financial perspective rather than the financial year 2019. A careful observer will notice that. Because of course it's easy to say that today, this year is 10% or 15% but we are talking about expenditure that is needed in 2019, not 2022 or 2021. I think you have to have that consequence in you to talk about 2019. Road safety tasks, country: 128% in relation to 2018. Bagatela. Safety - a difficult problem. We have something to do in this regard, because we are indeed in the best position among the countries of the European Union, by agreement. It's about these accidents, all these disasters, all these post-accident situations, about pensions, but it's also about how roads look, sidewalks, collision crossings, without collisions. We have a lot of work to do here. Ladies and gentlemen, back us up so we can spend this money wisely on security. We're all gonna be accounted for because none of you like the way a kid gets killed or the boy goes to moat school with his mom. This was the case in 2015, because there were no sidewalks on national roads in some towns. [[Applause]] [[Then give me more money on the roads.]] [[You're picking on the posts on the road, think about it...]] Aviation tasks. Very large increase, several million zlotys, because I want to say it clearly, that in Poland there are schools, universities that educate pilots. There is a need for this pot, which has been for many years so far, also in your time, to be increased, because these schools have arrived and you cannot divide 20 million PLN into three, but now you have to divide into five universities. This is why there is an increase of 6 million for pilot training. The Rzeszow University of Technology, the mother university of Dr. Andrzej Szlachty, will benefit from this. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, communications. We secure funds for Polish Post, it is obvious. Poczta Polska suffers some losses due to the fact that someone does not pay for the shipments, is compensation, we solve the problem, we do not talk about it loudly. All transport-related issues are included in this function of the 19th State budget. Anyone who wants to prepare themselves well for the questions, for the debate, should read this function 19: Transport and transport infrastructure from the annex to the budget. He'll know a lot more about it. Housing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about 18 parts of the state budget. In this part 18: Construction, planning and land-use planning and housing are included expenditure of PLN 776 million. They will be allocated to the refund of the guarantee premiums and the premium for systematic saving. They will be used to fund the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, it's three times the height. Make sure you're three times the height. Powering the Thermomodernization and Renovation Fund. Please discuss math. We continue with the interest buyout. The old problem, we remember it from the time of Socialist Poland, but we continue and solve this problem. Buy-out of interest on housing loans, funding of the subsidy fund for the financing of continued and ending housing programmes - expenditure of 281.9 million. Of this, of course, there will be funds to support rent building - 143% in relation to 2018. 143%. There will be funds at the end of the programme - Family at their own - 250 million and at the end of the programme - Living for young people. These programs are no longer functioning. There's a new housing program, but we consistently end these things that are overdue. [[But there are no apartments.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the construction reserve is 750, I'll check it out, sorry, 570 million zlotys. These are special reserves, i.e. a complementary source of funding for construction and housing tasks - PLN 570 million. Here we have a programme to finance payments, financial support for social and municipal construction. We adopted on 1 May 2018 a law on financial support for the creation of social housing, shelters and homes for the homeless, temporary heating houses as one of the tools envisaged under the project "Accommodation+" and this supports these people in the most difficult situations of their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of this programme, we want to meet the housing needs of people who, on the one hand, have too much income to get the money to get the apartment from the mayor or the president, and on the other hand, have no credit to get credit. The Polish state enters into this, the state as a good organizer of social life enters into these things. We also have a payment scheme for rents, in the first years of renting an apartment is a very important thing, and of course there is a reserve for the operation of the National Property Resource. In all the speeches that were before my speech, in particular the opposition, I see one thing: avoidance of conclusions and synthesis. It's just a hammer, a current hammer, that there was no, that there would be no, that you couldn't, or just questioning the math that should accompany our lives every day. If we don't recognize this math, we won't recognize the logic of this world. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that there is less money for roads, and this has been repeated by several people. Indeed, why is there no meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on Friday, which was announced by the Member? There isn't, because the co-chair in this matter is a committee of local government, which is going to Piotrków Trybunalski tomorrow. I have no influence over the committee, and I can't say stay because there's a problem to be solved. [[But there isn't.]] The Commission is leaving, Mr President, and we will convene a meeting next week. That's it, period. [[Voice from the room: Today.]] We can do that. It's even today... [[Sunday.]] ... of course, if Members agree, because I respect the opinion of Members who have many responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, why, by accusing us of anything, you will not mention what we found in 2015, when we came to the government. [[Applause]] How many railway projects were there? How much was it? Empty drawers, empty shelves and poor announcements. It wasn't. It wasn't. [[You're lying, you're lying, you're lying, you're lying, you're lying, you're ……]] Write it down in the record that Mr. Owl is accusing me of lying. [[There were no roads and bridges.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u184	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u185	There were empty drawers. We are not erasing anything, we are preparing the project of the Self-Government Road Fund for 6 billion PLN, which means it will, by agreement, be 5 billion more than it was. [[Applause]] After the bill was passed, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, there isn't a time when we've been in charge and we've been in charge for three years, so embarrassing stories that happened when the Civic Platform and the PSL were in charge. I was a member of the opposition. I was blushing with shame for 10 interventions by foreign ambassadors in Poland, who were ambassadors who said this: Pay our companies for building roads. Nobody wanted to pay them. The ambassadors in 10 countries just said, "Give me the money because we're building it." It was a disgrace. I'm talking about embarrassing situations. [[And I'm talking about this embarrassing situation.]] [[Voice from the room: Code.]] There is, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment any information, with all the difficult investment processes, here we agree, difficult, there is no compromising situation that any Polish companies will fail. Do you remember what happened in your day? What happened to the companies? When Spain was building roads, it was already in the European Union, it was a time for it to flourish. We used to build roads in the days of Platform and PSL, companies fell one by one. It was a big embarrassment, and it's a big loss, actually unrecognizable until today. [[Spare me.]] [[Have mercy.]] Mr. Speaker! It's not about saving and pity, it's about facts. [[The truth.]] The facts are the truth. [[Spare me the shame.]] Someone said we were wasteful, nonchalant. Ladies and gentlemen, we, as Law and Justice, are responding to social needs by implementing road, rail, aviation investments. Not for politicians, for society, for people. [[Applause]] We're among people and we're not afraid to see them. Of course, critical mass falls on us sometimes, but we take these problems and try to solve them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Radom too?]] [[Voice from the room: Courage.]] Courage, civil courage. [[Voice from the hall: And humility.]] [[Voice from the hall: And personal culture.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're accusing us that there's more money in the budget than there was, right? Because we sealed the VAT? That's the charge? Guys! [[Voice from the hall: On the roads less.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I come from a town that has been very affected by the governments of the previous coalition. You guys were selling how it was going. It is a pity that Mr.Polish People's Party is not here, it is a pity that he is not here because I would tell him how Pektowin was sold in Jasło. There were 1,700 people working there, and today there are 100 people working in Jasla, and PSL tells us there's nowhere to sell soft fruit. Who sold it? Jan Bury, do you recognize such a character, Jan Bury? [[Yeah, we do.]] And how was it sold, ladies and gentlemen, Gamrat in Jasla - Gamrat, the arms plant of 1937, the plant still from the Central Industrial District? It was drawn to the mayor of Jasła, and maybe he can confirm that: the minister sells from midnight to half-way through, and to the south of Bury. Gamrat found himself in this context downstairs. And sold. The buyer, of course, wants to buy always as cheap as possible, but the seller, or state, must give the best price. It wasn't there. You closed your bets in small towns, you didn't talk about it, you closed your town, you didn't think about families of many, you didn't think about poor people. You had young people emigrate because there was nowhere to work here. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] Good. I'd like to say yes. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] The budget is very decent, very rational, very responsible. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] There will be nothing missing from this budget when it comes to infrastructure. Nothing's gonna be missing. [[Voice from the room: Then why is the deficit?]] Don't give up on the deficit, or you won't be able to defend yourselves here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say one more thing. There's a saying, I don't know which, I think, Chinese scholar. I will quote them: The frog on the beach will not see sea waves, beautiful sea waves. [[Joy in the Chamber]] He won't see because he won't see, he won't. He will not see the beauty that the Law and Justice government is creating today, giving people money, giving people infrastructure, building sidewalks and making sure that children don't go to school on national roads with a moat. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u186	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u187	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! How Law and Justice care about schools, I'll say. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2007 the educational subsidy amounted to PLN 28.2 billion. In 2015, when we finished our governments, in addition to educational subsidies, local governments received pre-school grants and grants for textbooks. Together, it was almost 43 billion. Do you know how much we've increased the education budget for local governments? Over 14.5 billion. When we split it in half, you should equal the care of the Platform for education, increase expenditure on education by PLN 7.3 billion. Well, let's see what you've done. [[Stick to the subsidies, not everything to the basket.]] In 2019 local governments will receive 48 billion PLN for education, about 48 billion PLN. How much have you increased since 2015? About PLN 5 billion. [[To the subsidy, please refer to the subsidy.]] No, this is a pre-school grant, a grant and textbooks - what local governments get for education. You've only paid PLN 5.5 billion. At least 2.5 billion are missing to compensate for what the Civic Platform has given us. [[Applause]] But these are the numbers in billions of zlotys. A billion in 2015 is not equal to a billion in 2019. So let's look at the percentages. Ladies and gentlemen, for 2 years, the Platform has increased spending on local government education by 52%. Let's split it in half - 26%. How much did you pay? [[Voice from the room: What was PSL doing?]] 12% For four years. And you say you care about education? [[Applause]] And you're saying you're the government that cares about local governments? The educational task is at least 40% the budget of the local government. You've done a deformity of the education system, forced local governments to build, renovate, build new buildings, and in other places to leave empty, and you don't finance this task. The Minister boasts of the education subsidy for a six-year-old. Six-year-old in the times of the Platform received a full subsidy, that was PLN 5300 per year in 2016. And you've only paid PLN 3,600 for a six-year-old. You even ripped off the local government. What about the teachers? Well, ladies and gentlemen, today the Minister says that by 5% the salary will increase in 2019. We've been raising teachers' salaries by 50% for eight years. The most intern, because he was a young teacher who came to work, had to be encouraged to stay in this job. Young people don't come to work today because what do you propose, Minister Zalewska, Ministry of Finance and the PiS government? Well, if a teacher comes to work who graduated from Bachelor's degree, do you know what basic salary he'll get next year? About 1970 PLN, when the lowest wage planned by you is 2250 PLN. You extended his internship so that in order to ever be a diplomat teacher to earn as much as a diplomat teacher, he'll have to wait 15 years, he'll be 40 years old. That's why teachers leave school today. [[So he was getting more?]] You don't care about education. You say beautiful words, and the hard facts that are given in the budget show that you are ruining Polish education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u188	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u189	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is not an ambitious budget. It's a budget that follows the middle-aged path. Ladies and gentlemen! Investments in infrastructure in the next budget are already treated as stepmothers. [[Applause]] If we compare two sizes: 40 billion a year for new social programmes, some of which are discouraged from working and at the same time small increases in infrastructure investment programmes, there is an obvious picture of the gap. All you have to do is point out that you have allocated an additional 28 billion dollars to the entire national road construction programme in a multi-annual perspective, one way at a time. Even those virtual means that are supposed to be used for local roads do not change this sad state of affairs. The state of infrastructure, however, has an undisputed impact on the economy. Well-planned expenditure is an important boost to development. Of course, there are current infrastructure expenditures in the project, but it is clear that generating a strong boost to infrastructure is not a priority for the government. This is so short-sighted that over the years, it is clear that on the one hand, this boost for growth results in economic development, but on the other hand, it is equally dynamic to increase budget revenue. Of course, it is also about treating the scope of infrastructure as simple to use the electoral sausage reserve. It's just revenge. You can see it clearly now. In 2015, the Law and Justice stopped infrastructure expenditure, halted these projects. Now it's moving a little bit, and it's not about new investments, it's about finishing the old ones from the previous years. But this short-sighted stopping policy has caused destructive phenomena. The most recent case is the railway lines that you have been asking about. I say: the suspension of two contracts: Warsaw - Lublin, Poznań - Wrocław. So if we look at this budget, infrastructure resources can turn out to be empty records, because, like the previous years, they can simply remain unspent. [[Applause]] For example, data from the previous year: PLN 10 billion was intended to be allocated to infrastructure and remained in the budget. How do you spend these funds? It's about road construction contracts. I remember Minister Adamczyk saying that Poland is building the most expensive roads in Europe. I must say that today the Law and Justice Government is building the most expensive roads in the world. [[Applause]] Eastern border of Warsaw - 90 million PLN for 1 km. North bypass Krakow - PLN 100 million for 1 km. So where in the world are these roads built? [[Applause]] Minister, please explain. Construction - a disaster in every field, in every program. Thermomodernisation - almost PLN 1.5 billion was extracted from the budget of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and was intended to be used for thermomodernization. Where's the money? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aviation? It's nice that the school in Podkarpacie gets extra money, but that shows what the problem with this budget is. Where you have to put your own stuff, there's resources. Where there's money to invest, they're not there. It's a disaster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u190	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u191	Mrs. Marshal! It's not a very ambitious short-sighted draft budget. The Modern Posel Club absolutely cannot support such a thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u192	Thank you very much, sir. [[Corrigendum.]] But it wasn't... [[There was no name.]] No. Really, you weren't... I heard... [[Because you have denied that it is only in Podkarpatha, and this is, Mr, for five universities in Poland, not only in Podkarpacie.]] Gentlemen, please calm down. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few words, I would like to draw attention to those parts of the budget that concern science and higher education and the cultural area. The expenditure planned in the draft budget law for 2019 in the field of science and higher education is significantly higher than in previous years. The total expenditure of PLN 26.5 billion for higher education and education, together with the remaining amount of the planned special-purpose reserve, is foreseen for the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. With respect to the corresponding amounts included in the Budget Act for 2018 - it was then PLN 24.5 billion - expenditure increases by PLN 1969 million. That's an increase of almost 2 billion, nominally about 8%. This increase was included in the Budget Act in the budgetary parts of ministers supervising universities and scientific units in the amount of PLN 1053 million and in the part: Special Reserves in the amount of PLN 916.5 million. The public expenditure on science in relation to the equivalent amount included in the Budget Act last year at PLN 7.9 billion increases by nearly PLN 500 million, nominally by more than 7%. In 2019 they amount to PLN 8.5 billion, of which the main share is science expenditure planned in Part 28: Science and 67: The Polish Academy of Sciences, at the disposal of the Minister of Science and Higher Education in the amount of PLN 8.2 billion. Including the state budget is PLN 6.4 billion and from the European budget - PLN 1.8 billion. Last year it was PLN 7.5 billion. This represents an increase of over 600 million, nominally 9.3%. Special-purpose reserve measures falling under the responsibility of the Minister for Science and Higher Education under Part 83 under heading 81: The appropriations for increasing research and research and development expenditure amount to PLN 25 million. The funds planned in the budgets of other ministers in the Science section are PLN 193 million. In the area of higher education expenditure, the budget law for 2019 planned an amount of PLN 18 080 million, which for 2018, when this amount amounted to PLN 16.6 billion, means an increase of nearly PLN 1.5 billion, nominally 9%. The planned expenditure on higher education for 2019 is included in the main section 38: Higher education. They will be at the disposal of the Minister responsible for higher education. This is the amount of PLN 14 013 million. That's an increase. over 5%, almost 5.5%. In the special reserve under the responsibility of the Minister for Science and Higher Education included in section 83: appropriations for increasing the remuneration of university staff were secured - and this is very important information, which was widely discussed during the implementation of the Constitution for Science - appropriations of almost PLN 1 billion. This means a 7% increase in the wage fund along with derivatives. Other ministers' budgets left PLN 3.1 billion. You can see from these growths that we reform, change, but that's what money goes for, and that's bigger, big money, an area very important, very sensitive, which is science and higher education. The area of culture and national heritage. The draft budget law for 2019 provides for expenditure of PLN 3 835 619. Including the special provisions, expenditure amounts to over PLN 4 billion. Compared to 2018, the increase amounts to more than PLN 0.5 billion. In addition, expenditure on culture and the protection of national heritage is planned in the voivod's budgets in the amount of over 122 million PLN. In addition, two special reserves are planned for 2019: measures to support audiovisual production - over PLN 105 million, as well as funds for cultural tasks - over PLN 213 million. There is a systematic increase in spending on culture. The cultural resources have already exceeded the 1.1% threshold the state budget. In the last 2 years, there has been an increase in cultural expenditure by more than 20%. This is a really jumping and qualitative change. This means, for example, better funding of artistic education and more money for the culture and protection of the Polish heritage. This increases the access of an average citizen to cultural goods. The main expenditure planned in heading 921: Culture and the protection of national heritage amounts to over PLN 2 billion. Grants for museums amount to over PLN 765 million, an increase of 18.5% compared to 2018 , in the centre of culture and art - more than 220 million, theatres - nearly 210 million PLN, an increase of 8.3%, archives - about 188 million, an increase of more than 11%, the protection of monuments and the care of monuments - more than 115 million PLN, philharmonics, orchestras, choirs and bands - almost 84 million PLN. You can see that actually in every area there is growth, sometimes two-digit. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage expands the network of museums, which will cover numerous white spots on the museum map of Poland. The building of the Polish History Museum was started. The budget will include funds to finance new museum institutions, e.g. World War II museum. There are also measures to co-host 11 new museum institutions. The next funds will be allocated to new cultural institutions: the Polish Royal Opera, the National Institute of Polish Cultural Heritage abroad, the National Institute of Architecture and Urban Science, as well as the saved Polish Music Publishing House, the State Publishing Institute or the salvage of historical conservation studios. There are further measures to strengthen culture in the regions. Measures are foreseen for the co-hosting of 12 new cultural institutions. There are funds for the scientific institution, the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Witold Pilecki. The Culture Promotion Fund will fund the programmes of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Eight new programmes have been set up by the Minister, which extend the ability of cultural institutions and NGOs to raise funds. There are measures for a very important project of thermomodernisation of artistic schools. In total, 187 buildings belonging to 139 public artistic education institutions across the country will be modernised in 2017 and 2021, mainly in small and medium-sized towns. The total value is over PLN 500 million. The following multi-annual programmes will be implemented as part of the expenditure on culture in 2019: the programme "Independant" - the amount of almost PLN 50 million, the National Programme for the Development of Reading and Reading - nearly PLN 60 million, the construction of the Museum of Polish History in Warsaw - the amount of PLN 200 million, the construction of the complex of the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek - the amount of nearly PLN 50 million. New music competitions and one festival will be financed. According to the data presented by me, we can be calm about the development of Polish science and culture, extremely important for the construction of strong and independent Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u194	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour and pleasure on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to discuss the departments that the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration manages on a daily basis. The draft budget law for 2019 takes into account the limit of defence expenditure for the national defence department at 2% GDP planned to be achieved next year. These expenses amount to PLN 44 674 million. Poland is appreciated within the Alliance, NATO for fulfilling commitments of this scale, it is the amount of these expenses, and it belongs to a small group of countries that have dealt with it. It is mentioned in international forums with recognition as to this fact. Within such an expenditure limit, the following amounts were allocated to the tasks included in heading 752: National defence for other than the Minister of Defence of the national budget managers: 453 184 thousand. PLN - financing of the purchase of transport equipment, weapons and special technology, IT and communication; PLN 200 million - expenditure on research projects; over PLN 94 million - expenditure on securing the implementation of tasks resulting from the This support for the activities of the Minister of Health, which also determines the quality of the services provided by this rescue. This is a very expected action. Over PLN 45 million - an increase of 16.8% in relation to this year, expenditure was allocated to the activities of the public prosecutor's office units competent in military matters. He's the Minister of Justice. More expenses. 26 mln PLN - expenditure related to the implementation of the Programme for the mobilisation of the economy for the years 2017-2026. It's being realized by various resorts. The remaining amount of defence expenditure, i.e. 43 812 253 thousand. PLN, without taking into account the amount of 230 649 thousand. PLN transferred by the Minister of Science and Higher Education is planned in Part 29: National Defence. Compared to the Budget Act of this year, this amount is 3 463 914 thousand higher. zł. So you can see, ladies and gentlemen, that the actions carried out by the finance resort, very brave, with regard to the introduction of a single control file, reversed VAT, the reform of the National Tax Administration, the introduction of the SENT system, one, two, three... [[I think the first one is us.]] ...laws on auditors and audit firms, restrictions on the oil market, have produced very good results that allow to finance expenditure in this department in a way that meets the highest standards, is very expected. As part of the increase in the expenditure of the Ministry, the implementation of tasks concerning, inter alia,: programmes of technical modernization, extended presence of military allies in Poland, involvement of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland outside the borders of the country in the framework of fulfillment of commitments made at the NATO Summit in Warsaw, formation of further units of the Territorial Defence Army, expansion of the potential for action in cyberspace and cryptological support. I was particularly pleased by the increase in spending in this area, because we recall the achievements of Polish cryptologists: Marian Rejewski, Henryk Zygalski, Jerzy Różycki, who during World War II, well prepared by the work many years earlier, helped break Enigma's ciphers, which in the analysis of analysts reduced World War II by 3 years and prevented the disappearance of about 8 million people, potential victims of World War II. We're proud of it. I don't think there are many people who can imagine how difficult it must be for cryptologists to work today. So that I am very pleased that there has been an increase in funding here, and I wish the success of these teams. Expenditure on building the human potential of the Armed Forces has also been increased. In addition, the budget of the Minister for National Defence secures the money to increase the salary fund allowing a total salary increase for the staff of the Ministry of Defence of PLN 300 and increases the fund of salaries for soldiers. Scheduled in Part 29: National defence of property expenditure will amount to a total of 12 001 791 thousand. zł. The draft budget law in the section relating to the Ministry of National Defence shall secure all priority tasks identified by the management for 2019. The structure of defence expenditure reflects the emphasis placed on the increase in expenditure on technical modernisation and development of the personal capacity of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. I am now moving to the budget of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. It is responsible for four parts of the state budget. These include: Public administration, internal affairs, religious confessions and national and ethnic minorities and Regional Audit Chambers. Here expenditure amounts to over PLN 35 million, over PLN 23 003 600 thousand. zł. As regards the expenditure of the European budget, it amounts to 165 460 000. As far as regional clearing houses are concerned, the state budget will spend 129 529 000 next year. zł. In total, WW. the budget parts available to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration are planned for 2019 for revenue of 117 357 000. PLN, while expenditure of 23 333 930 thousand. PLN and they are higher by 1,853 781 thousand. zł, so this is an increase of 8.6%. The expenditure of the budget of European funds is higher by PLN 49 207 000. Let me give you an overview of the amount of expenditure related to the MSWiA formations, taking into account the breakdown by formation. For the police, the total amount of funds to finance the police in 2019 will be 11 062 051 thousand. PLN and will be 11.5% higher. As far as the Border Guard is concerned, these expenses are planned to amount to 1,849 776 thousand. PLN, i.e. higher, and this increase will be 11.4%. State Border Guard - financing provided for in two parts: internal affairs and voivodship budgets. The fire department's expenditure in 2019 is planned for a total amount of 3 078 389 thousand. PLN and this amount is 8.9% higher. Expenditure from the voivodship's budget was planned in the amount of 2 798 732 thousand. zł, which means an increase of 9,8%. As far as the State Protection Service is concerned, expenditure will amount to over PLN 316 million, which means an increase of 20%. The next year is the third year of implementation of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in the years 2017 An amount of 9 208 940 000 was planned for the implementation of this programme over a period of 4 years. zł. Next year there will be the greatest increase in expenditure over the period of implementation of this programme and they will amount to 33.5% the overall amount planned under the modernisation programme. I'd like to pay a little attention to a case that's always interested in employees and officers. Allow me to briefly discuss the planned increases, increases in salaries, salaries of police officers, Border Guards, firefighters, State Security officers. The increase was planned here from 1 January by PLN 309 per job, and also another increase by PLN 253 from 1 July next year. This results in an increase in wage rates. The salary increase will cover 153 017 officers' posts, including 103 309 police officers' posts. As a result, officers of individual formations of the Ministry will receive a higher salary of PLN 1100 compared to 2015, taking into account the increases that were introduced in 2016 and 2017. The civil servants of these formations will receive increases in the total amount of PLN 550, taking into account the increase in the additional annual salary, which will give the amount of PLN 597 per job. Ladies and gentlemen! The data I quoted shows that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, in cooperation with ministers, keeps the economy on loose reins and allows it to move freely, without stopping growth. The budget includes privileges for numerous entities, especially smaller companies, family businesses. We want these small companies to become medium-sized companies, so that micro companies become larger companies, and so there are also preferences for lower ZUS contributions, lower CIT for these companies. I think that it is entitled to the opinion that it is a well-cut, secure budget, giving the prospect of further strong growth and the chance that further budgets will provide even more optimism conducive to normal functioning and work for the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u196	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. [[Mr Cymanski has chickened out, impossible.]] Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The honourable previous speaker commended the previous coalition in its previous term of office with a single control file. [[That's a good tape.]] He also talked about reverse VAT. And this is where you'd have to establish a little testimony, so to speak, with your member of the program board, who first testified to the VAT investigation committee, Mr Modzelewski, because he marked the difference between the reversed VAT and the 0% rate. [[Applause]] So it's worth it in your community to establish these facts and, as a matter of fact, establish testimony. Besides, you just mentioned the tapes when you left. Well, on these famous Morawiecki tapes, I apologize for not quoting, but it is not suitable to quote, your Marshal might find that I am violating the importance of the House, on these famous Morawiecki tapes it is said that the economy based on credit is a mistake. Moravian criticizes the credit economy. Well, we have another year of economic prosperity, and yet you have a budget deficit of PLN 28 billion. The Minister was pleased to talk about how you seal the system, how you seal the VAT. Indeed, it is worth mentioning those earlier activities that we have carried out, such as a single control file or reversed VAT in 2011, in 2013 and in 2015 for electronics. But we also need to say what it looks like today when it comes to sealing. If we look at data from 2016 and 2017, according to PwC this is 91 billion PLN, i.e. record-breaking, medium-year record much more than during the period of the Platform and PSL government. If we look at the data that we officially have this year, the rate of VAT growth is about 2,8%. And consumption is over 5%. Polish experience, but also the countries of the European Union, shows that VAT revenues do not increase directly linearly, but increase significantly more during the economic period than consumption, while in times of slowing down they inhibit more sharply. So if we have an economic situation at the moment: GDP over 5%, consumption above 5%, and the rate of VAT is 2.8%. , it means that the tax gap You're getting more VAT. And I'm not surprised that before the municipal elections, you canceled a hearing with the Minister of Finance from Mr. Rostowski's previous government in the VAT commission, because you would just get a hit. [[Applause]] And you'd hear some VAT facts, too. That's why there's a lot about what you're saying about VAT, propaganda, and, in fact, about facts, they are that the VAT gap in the PiS government is growing at record rates. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u198	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to talk to you about securing funds in the state budget for social assistance and family. The flagship program, the 500+ programme, of course, is secured, but please note that there is 2200 million less there than this year, because fewer and fewer families or children receive such a benefit. Why? This is due to rigid criteria: 800 PLN per family member and 1200 PLN in the situation of a disabled person in the family. It eliminates a lot of families. The single mothers suffer most because they are the ones most affected, because they are the ones who receive the benefit for the first child. What I'm trying to say is that no one seems to care about this situation today, and we forget that single mothers need the most help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u200	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Sławomir Piechota. There isn't. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. There isn't. Mrs Dorota Sunday. There isn't. I'm closing... [[It's still Cynian.]] There you go, Mr Cymanski is back in the O.R. You're welcome, sir. [[15 minutes. 15 minutes, Tadek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u201	If I don't see it, I won't believe it. Good. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm gonna start with a little technical attention. Well, I think it was right here to criticize one of the opposition Members that the 15-minute speech by the Minister of Finance on the budget is serious, but a little minor. This criticism must be accepted as customs and right, and even agreed with it. And that's what I'm doing. We'll pass it on through our channels. But indeed a powerful state, Minister of Finance... I don't think it was necessary here at the entrance. And the performance was great. Too bad it's so short. Get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to speak on behalf of my club in the final word for the whole debate. She was very disappointing, this debate. However, non-essential arguments were dominant. Maybe Mrs. Zofia Czernow's last speech was a beautiful and good example, because that's a problem, you're right. This is an example of politics, constructive criticism, reliable, fact-based and, I hope, kind. And we know it, we're following it. Indeed, as a result of not changing the income thresholds as wages rise, some people lose this privilege, and this hits the weakest. And that's painful. We are aware of that, we are in control, we are monitoring, and we will undoubtedly respond to that. But at the same time it must be noted that this criticism is perhaps not from the Member who is elegant and kind, but from other, more bitter colleagues who attack without a pardon, as if they forgot... [[Toxic.]] ...that for 8 years more than 2 million children fell out of family benefits, and it was from benefits at the level of 67 PLN, 85 PLN. Having such a burden of the past, such omission, I do not want to say: anesthetic, it is difficult with such passion to criticize us after 3 years since the introduction of the 500+ programme. And to get to the bottom of this, let's add right away: 21 billion 500 in the budget for 500+. But it immediately draws attention to the amount of more than 13 billion PLN for the implementation of just those old benefits which I have so slightly attached myself to, the smaller ones, these benefits up to the years 5 and 95 PLN, 124 PLN and by age up to 127 PLN. Yeah, it's a huge change. In this whole budget debate, there are actually these numbers, numbers, numbers, but it seems to me that the most important thing is a general look on the subject, because the budget, like in the lens, like in the pupil, is focused on what is the essence of state policy. And this is exactly what we said in this short speech, as we said at the outset, the Minister said, ladies and gentlemen. Harmony, development, responsibility, but at the same time this human face. And this is the big change that is continuing, and I have no doubt that it will continue. And it will be that, right away, I apologize a little bit for the bites, those who did not leave a dry thread on the decision to reduce the retirement age, those who said: there is no, from under the ground, these are quotations about 500+, the same, the same mouth, the same people today could say: we will sustain, expand, we will not move. This is an example of change. And I hope, and I want to share this hope with you that this collision of these two views of the world, of what some people call neoliberalism - for 20 years in this Seym by various government teams, to be fair, this policy has been conducted... But tonight, but tonight... [[You're talking about Moravian.]] Tonight... I will not be provoked and I will not go so low. I've got 11 more minutes, take it easy. You know, what my colleague said is wonderful: what you say is important, but three times more important what you do. Actions, not words. And in this respect, we are dealing with a huge policy change, and it is quite different. I was still a young mayor, at some party I heard one of the businessmen, no, it's not representative to be clear, he says: listen, keep the job short, because if you let him go, he's gonna bite the hand that feeds him. I was scared. And there were a lot of these jobs, and a lot of people thought there was a big change, the commune fell, and they had a hard time waiting for those times and for the day when politics would change. Is it great? No, there's no revelation, we have problems, they're exchanged, we're aware of huge needs. There are protests of other groups, but we are not a party of miracles, Warsaw is not the Cana of Galilee, I am Tadek Cymanski, not Mario the Wizard. After all, you can't look at politics in this way, it's all measurable and calculated. That is why I see elements of emotion, completely unnecessary, on the side of colleagues from the opposition, who are so passionately attacking what, in their assumption, is directed at man in its fundamental foundations. Yeah, that's the most important thing. On the Internet - one of you wrote me a letter, she was disappointed: I follow you, I watch you, I like you, Mr President, but how could you say that Poles prefer bread to freedom? It was a program involving Konrad Piasecki. I thought about what she meant. And indeed, I said so, not by bread alone, man lives, but logically, mathematically, to appeal to logic, that means that he lives primarily on bread, but not on his own. Today in this huge debate not once, and I was from start to finish, the word freedom did not fall, not the word rule of law. I'm not saying this to provoke or to minimize the importance of a political dispute, but what does that say? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a man in a democratic state, in a free, democratic and law-abiding state, unless his basic needs are met, are not satisfied with these temporal concerns - living, working permanently, stable in order to be able to heal, educate, feed, raise - he does not feel free. And we, I hope, are convinced, on the basis of reflection on the past, have changed this policy. This is a difficult policy, it is not easy, which is why in this budget our crown pearl, social policy - 40 billion, but attention, attention, data are sure, beat: 97% expenditures next year in relation to the current one. That's a waste of time, isn't it? No, it's a responsibility. We have taken on the burden of hard, rigid budget expenditure and no one will touch it. Whoever's hand is gonna raise his hand, he's gonna die. We already know that, we know that, because it's a hundred times easier not to give than to take. That's the responsibility in politics. I've seen many different kinds of decisions before, but please and I appeal from this place to the opposition: stop it, abandon this language of distribution, because it's self-discovery. On the one hand, we say: distribution, wastefulness, and we forget that it is, however, aimed money. Even if they are, we are also aware - I look at the watch - that there are pathologies, that someone can demotivate this 500+, but in their main stream, in the prevailing stream to millions of families it is clean, honest and motivating. No mother, no father, who will receive an additional $1,000. Wow, they're not quitting their jobs. How can you even think about Poles? It's just people who aren't really ambitious, who don't love their kids, they're gonna do it. Therefore, this program is excellent - excellent. We don't just want to talk about it, because we have a whole series of other things, and I'm just going to talk about it a little bit here, because this time is so inexcusable. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, let's look at: "Good start" - 1,4 billions, social contributions, parental leave, maternity benefits. It's been different for years, too. Okay, the predecessors brought their share here, too, but it also costs, that's 3580 million. I'm gonna say a little something, but it's important. As a father of five, I'm not in favour of day care, just to be clear. I think it's a sad necessity for mothers who want to be with a child in this most precious period, as psychologists say, until the age of 3, and are forced to turn this child into a nursery. Poland was at the end, we were criticized. Look at the reports of the European Union. And what did we do? Next year, including the budget of 250 million directly from the branch: Family and an additional 200 million from the Labour Fund, totaling 450 million. What does that mean? We're gonna get the help of 143 grand. children, and Poland will simply move to a group of countries with the best indicator. Almost 1,400 thousand. Polish children have secure kindergartens, with a lot of effort of self-government parents, it is true. We're just giving up the truth because we're not gonna argue with the facts. But this government's policy, our government, is a policy aimed primarily at man, taking care of indicators, funds and the sustainability of public finances as well as securing them. Indicators, ladies and gentlemen, can be wonderful, can be surplus, GDP - 10% And at the same time, 1 million people protesting on the streets. This is the problem that Prof. Czerwińska mentioned in her speech - the different functions of the state system are different. But one of the canonical functions, who knows if in such countries that go through a transition period, not the most important one, is a redistribution function, where it's how we take, how much we take, who we take, how much we give, and when we give. Yes. This is a redistribution function. This function is supposed to work to reduce huge contrasts, to put it simply, injustice - that there are huge chimneys, that there are giants and those who have problems satisfying basic, as I said, life needs, social needs. We still have unsolved problems - an extensive topic about older people, health care. Despite what she said beautifully about these programmes, we know that the needs are even greater, we are aware of that. The European Union spends 1.2% on care and care for older people GDP. That is what the entire European budget is. What's it look like we're doing here? But what's so fun to attack, it's so fun to crush us? It's not fair. Kind and honest criticism - yes, but not criticism. It's a disease of the soul, a sister of malcontent. Colleagues from the opposition! We should solve some problems together. We take critical remarks and draw conclusions. And what I would like to avoid, and what I would like to ask not to be, is a significant, unfortunately, echo - this storm from the past, this dark night. Some things here, in this Seym, are being attacked with passion, even today. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Prime Minister who recorded... They say he's a liberal. What did he say? Many years ago, it's ancient history. But he makes decisions here, he makes decisions. If he offered to tax those who so hold God's feet... He's a granddad in front of them. Ladies and gentlemen, just over 1 million dollars of income. You guys are passionately attacking? It is possible to discuss how it is spent - better or worse, but the fact that in this country we are reaching for money from people who have a lot is to imitate the whole developed world, the whole of Europe. What tax system do you want to introduce in Poland? Well, well, well. Tell me. That's bullshit and propaganda. This propaganda, which has flourished for so many years, has unfortunately reaped a terrible harvest because many people have believed it. Even today, some believe it and unwittingly, by the power of inertia, follow it. [[Voice from the room: More tapes read.]] I know that these words can hurt a lot, they can get upset, because that's what happens. That's right, buddy. I know. Me too, when someone tells me some unpleasant truth, that's what happens in life. But here we're talking about the principle, we're talking about the facts, the details. I've got to get to some kind of finalization. This budget is the penultimate budget before next year's key political battle. We will stand before the voters, the opposition will also stand, and we will pass on the matter of our hydration. Evaluation is always a comparison. I'm not afraid of that assessment. Different types of failures, failures, things that we will still have to face, they will not change the basic assessment that there has been a change in politics in Poland. Change of policy - I'll say it again. I said that a year ago. Mr. Balicki, the former Minister of Health, said that our victory... I do not want to clumsyly quote this statement, to diminish our success and our merits in this regard. But he said that this is primarily the result of over 20 years of extreme neoliberal politics in Poland. I have waited greedyly, with longing for this moment - I have lived to see him as a Member not yet the oldest - that here, in this Seym, this policy will come, which I believe is the result of some reflection. You have to have the courage to take a critical assessment of your own accomplishments. I don't think I'm gonna be developing this here anymore, anybody in this room, the opposition, too, lacks intelligence. Everyone will be able to comment on it. To conclude, I have one more thing to say, in this very atmosphere, because I feel like I'm a reserve officer, I'm a reserve lieutenant. I accept many critical remarks about the defence, but if anyone thinks - the Minister also listened - if someone thinks it's the greatest technique, the weapons protect you and it's safe then, it seems to me that he is in great error. But there are omissions, there is a huge wine consisting in eliminating maybe not reserve, compulsory services, but for many years - check it on the Internet - the finger was not moved... No reserve soldier has been trained, no boy has been trained. And we in labor and dredge - maybe inefficiently, maybe not so - are trying with passion to build the Territorial Defence Army. You have no moral right to attack us, since you have led us to such helplessness. [[Applause]] No one wins any war if they don't have ground defense. That's what you have to say. Ask the generals, even the best scientists - this is the simple truth. Yeah, I'm a man too. The Cyman reserve lieutenant is finishing his speech. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u202	Thank you very much. Do any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House want to join the task... Excuse me, Mr Sławomir Piechota. Excuse me, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u203	High Seym! The more trades and dwarfs, the less facts. And Mr Cymanski's speech fully illustrates this. [[Applause]] In the penultimate paragraph, Mr Cymanski probably referred to the so-called. Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. We are in favour of supporting people with disabilities, but what you're doing is to make this money a strange, twisted way to transfer it to no one knows who or what it really is. Take a look at this bill. The Social Policy Committee just debated this. The legislators showed how flawed this project is. So what, the muddy water, where you can make all kinds of combinations? How much of this money will really reach people with disabilities? Why isn't this money directed directly to the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities? What's the point of one more being created? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A weird fund? Excuse me. , a few more simple passwords like that. The Lord speaks of many beautiful promises. Where is the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment on the guardians of persons with disabilities? [[Applause]] Four years? That's what your promises are worth. You've been in charge for three years. Why aren't you putting in that sentence you demanded? Last year, 2017, the Prime Minister and Minister Rafalski loudly announced that there would be 5,000 in the course of the year. new jobs for people with disabilities. Where are these places? Where are these places? Now you're silent with shame? There aren't any of these places. At the same time, the employment of people with disabilities in the civil service is falling. Directors arrive there, yes, and employment of disabled people is falling dramatically, as reported in mid-year's Rzeczpospolita. And one last thing. Children with disabilities are light. Shame. They are still looking forward to the same rights under the 500+ programme. And full inclusion of children with disabilities would require a slight amount of annual attention, about PLN 12 million. This is the scale of the embrace of those children who heroically, with parents and guardians...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u204	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u205	...they've been improving since they were young. That's what your promises are worth. It's easy to find out. [[Applause]] [[It was a moment of truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm gonna set the time-- one and a half minutes. First Mr. George Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u207	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, There is no need to convince anyone about the extremely unsatisfactory state of local roads, especially in Warmia and Mazury. Local government units cannot afford to finance the renovation and construction of local roads on their own. Despite the operation in the previous years of the multiannual period, the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure for the years 2016-2019, the standard of local roads still deviates from the expected. Despite the systematic improvement of local road infrastructure, the state of Polish local roads remains one of the basic barriers to improving road safety. It also hinders the economic development of the region, making it difficult for both economic centres, urban centres and public institutions to communicate. Let us remember that the state of road infrastructure, including local infrastructure, is a key driver for the economic growth of the regions. For example, I will tell you that the district road from Mrągów to Sorkwity leads through the forest by a different route than planned and cannot be crossed by this road. And there are more roads like that. Therefore, please [[♪ The bell ♪]] information on the measures that have been secured to support local government units in the implementation of such important socio-economic tasks in the field of renovation and maintenance of local roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Before giving the floor to the next Member wishing to ask a question, I wanted to welcome the participants of the competition for knowledge about the Sejm from the district of Krakow, who are looking at the meetings from the gallery. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u209	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Always the budget bill is this moment to talk about important matters, and I also try to talk about it when I make amendments to the draft budget law of the state. This was the case with the work on the budget in 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, the amendments concerning one group of patients: Alzheimer's disease, dementia, were rejected by the majority of the government. To be honest, today I was very sorry to examine this draft state budget, and unfortunately I do not see the resources for the national Alzheimer's programme there. And we must all be aware that in Poland there are about 0.5 million people with this terrible disease. The Supreme Audit Chamber report clearly states that a national Alzheimer's programme is needed. I offered PLN 10 million for this purpose to start work so that people who are sick, but also their carers, who are very often left to themselves, can help to function normally in society. I appeal, Minister, once again, to autocorrect this project. Make it at least PLN 10 million. I mean, you guys know how to give money. At the IPN you awarded 120 million more in 2018 than in 2015. It's time for brave decisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I encourage you to do. If not, I will make an amendment to this matter again. As soon as it's done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to a survey carried out by Kantar Millward Brown, the statistical value of the Pole is PLN 1572 per month. According to the same 2015 report it was 976 PLN, so it is an increase of 61% over 3 years. What are the charges? It's for electricity, phone, water, gas, waste disposal, Internet, cable TV, rent and heat energy. This growth is closely linked, among others. with fees implemented by the government, such as those affecting fixed charges just for electricity, water and gas. Many times they were exchanged from this speaker, but you were going to the elections with a promise of returning to the old VAT rates - 7% And 22%. Then you shouted that this is the main tax generating costs, increasing the cost of everyday life of Poles. You haven't returned to the old stakes in three years. The next time runs out, the extension introduced by you by 2 years of these higher rates is over. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you planning on doing at the end of the year? Please make it clear and clear to the Poles in the Parliamentary Speaker what VAT rates have been included in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u212	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask a question about entrepreneurs, i.e. what they enter into the new financial year. As we know, this is the group that creates the good that creates the economy that guarantees the development and growth of gross domestic product. What do they come in with? So, of course, they're surrounded by law and justice, new taxes, new fees, new settlements strongly restricting business activity. As we know, the government's proposed reduction in CIT income tax rate for some entrepreneurs is actually just propaganda, it concerns a small group of entrepreneurs, it is nothing on a larger scale. Already, it must be said, the costs of electricity and other carriers have increased considerably. They are 40% Up to 70%. When I was driving to the Sejm, I got a call from an entrepreneur who paid $16,000. One month for energy, and now he's paying 26,000. So my question is: What is the justification for such a high increase in electricity? I'm going to point out that the PGE officials can't justify it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, In Part 43: Religious confessions and national and ethnic minorities are planned to amount to about PLN 16 million for the activities of national and ethnic minorities. Of course, this is an amount that hasn't changed in a few years. Representatives of national minorities are certainly grateful, but as we know, the needs that occur are several times higher. In addition, inflation means that fewer projects can be implemented from year to year. I have a question: Is there a chance to introduce a principle that has been in place since many terms, that this amount has been minimally increased each year? Of course, I declare cooperation on my part. I'm a member of the Public Finance Committee. I think, Mr President, if I had made such a proposal, and the Ministry of Finance would have agreed, we could have made such an increase. And the second point is part 30: Education and upbringing. That's what I asked you last year. We're in the second year of education reform. There are major needs in those primary schools which have taken over the tasks of classes VII and VIII. They are infrastructurally and hardwareally unprepared, underfunded, and local governments have quite big problems with it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: What resources will the Ministry have this financial year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u216	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u217	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The draft budget for 2019 contains exceptionally high amounts for reserves - for a total reserve of PLN 235 million, for special reserves of over PLN 30 billion. Actually, this is the first time we've had a budget like this, and that's not good, because it's bad for how cut it is. Many resources can be used for completely different purposes, and this is actually the case. At this point in time, at almost every meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we are engaged in allocating special provisions for other tasks. It wasn't different yesterday. Yesterday we spent over 1,600 million PLN on other purposes than it was written in the special reserves. It's not good, and it certainly shouldn't be. But I have a specific question, Minister. Under the special provisions under heading 91, a reserve shall be entered for tasks in the field of health care. Could the Minister tell you what these tasks are in the area of health care that can be financed from this reserve? Or, for example, Can this reserve be financed by the construction of a county hospital? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski said that the Prime Minister was a liberal. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, Liberalism assumes responsibility, and Matthew Morawiecki's words and actions were completely irresponsible. You were talking about the exploitation of employees, but it was Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki who praised the formula that the employee had - he used the word for - but I say: to work - to work for a bowl of rice. I paradoxically agree with you that, of course, such an attitude is the ultimate fall of man, absolute agreement. This is the only man you've ever taken to be your prime minister. [[Destroy... sir.]] Now I will ask Mr Cymanski because you cannot be a dolphin and a whale at the same time, why you took such a man as Prime Minister. You may tell me, but I also have specific questions about the measures. [[Voice from the room: Because man is not...]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] The question is whether they will be used for the road S1 Bielsko-Biała - Costy, there are problems with construction. Have you planned the budget or are these virtual funds? Secondly, why is there no funds for the Beskydy Integration Way? This is some absolute bypassing thing that should have been done long ago, which is built this way. The state spends an excellent majority of the budget on social initiatives, completely forgetting investment issues. This is irresponsible. I wanted to ask you where they are and how much money they have for human rights and citizens. They're in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Broken, we need education. Where can they be found in the budget? And one more question: What kind of measures have you foreseen for education in terms of the need for preventive vaccination? Because today there was a scandal in the High House. The government, the majority ruling...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u220	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u221	...has allowed the project to be considered, which will have disastrous consequences in terms of understanding by Poles the idea of preventive vaccination. And the question is, have you planned the means to correct this mistake? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member. There's no envoy. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, the Sejm passed the Law on Higher Education and Science. This law provides for significant changes by introducing a statutory mechanism guaranteeing the annual valorisation of expenditure borne by the State budget for education and science. In addition, in the course of the work on this law, the government party repeatedly stressed, assured that this would ensure an increase in the salaries of academic teachers. I wanted to ask: What is the increase in spending on higher education and science planned for next year? And does the draft budget law submitted provide funds to raise the salaries of academic teachers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u224	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Last year you took 253 thousand in October 2017. mining families coal depot by law. You've done it for the first time in history with a bill. You forgot the widows and orphans, the tragically dead miners - that's almost 12,000. persons. You were supposed to fix it. I wanted to ask you today, Minister, what funds have been earmarked for compensation for widows and orphans who have not been remembered for a year? The minister was supposed to make a bill, and she's not here tonight. I would also like to ask the Minister of Family and Social Policy: What are the funds again secured for the payment of this coal debt to railway pensioners? Second line. Within three years, you've eliminated eight mines, you've eliminated 15,000. jobs in mining and around mining - 45 thousand... You took almost PLN 8 billion from taxpayers' pockets to liquidate mines and jobs. Recently, the government has requested a notification of another PLN 5 billion for the years 2019 to 2023. I wanted to ask: What money is earmarked for the disposal of mines and jobs for 2019? What kind of mines are you going to liquidate next? One last question. Hawks-Dorje is a 90-thousand-dollar city. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's coal coming out of it, but there's been no railroad there for years. For the past three years, Madam President has been asking the PKP for measures to take action. Turns out there's no money missing. I wanted to ask: Are you able to secure funds for the construction of passenger rail in 2019, opening this 90 thousandth city to the world? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What's there to say? You cheat, you cheat, you keep cheating. Maybe it's your nature. It's hard to say. How do I hear you guys say you gave people 500+... What's 500+? Don't you count at the Ministry of Finance? After all, this is 415 zł, because 85 zł you receive immediately in the form of VAT. Is this how you seal the VAT collection? The average VAT rate currently stands at 17% It's increased by 2% over the last few years. You take 17% out of this money immediately. As for all your decisions raising the lowest wage, who are you charging? You don't charge this budget because the budget is blocked by the raises. You're charging entrepreneurs who have to pay more. What are you doing? Best deal, because you guys are just taking more money for taxes, ZUS, etc. You're robbing everyone. If you say you're sealing the tax system, I'll tell you this: you're not causing the system to seal, you're sealing our pockets. [[Applause]] You guys, with all the thirty-six taxes you've introduced... This is your VAT seal, this is your VAT receipts. There's a better economy and more impact on the budget, but that's not the result of your actions. It just fell from the sky to you because there is a good economic situation in Europe. [[In 2015, we also fell from the sky, still falling from the sky.]] You're just lucky, but don't tell me it's all your fault. Because in times of crisis, you'd bury us more than it was in Greece. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Happiness favors a better one. You have to be lucky. It's just true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2019 is the next year of implementation important for ensuring the protection and security of citizens of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in the years 2017-2020. The aim of this programme was to increase the efficiency, efficiency and efficiency of the services responsible for improving our safety, mainly by providing them with modern equipment. This raises the question whether the 2019 budget includes resources for the implementation of the programme as a whole. And if so, how high are they and what tasks are planned to be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform introduced increases for environmental self-help homes for adults with disabilities. Meanwhile, the PiS immediately after taking power deleted this and moved it to the following years. Question: "Is there an increase in funding for environmental self-help homes in the 2019 budget, or are you translating it again?" I would like to stress that environmental self-help homes are the only form of care and time management for adults with disabilities in Poland. The resources from today's good times, even across Europe, had to be allocated, each responsible government should be used to invest in people and for example. raises for nurses, teachers, but above all for the most disadvantaged, disabled. Meanwhile, the government spends a lot of money even to those who are rich, to vote or to admit to themselves the so-called. Rewards. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u232	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u233	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski, you speak so ecumenically to us, keeping such an apparent form of dialogue, highlighting things that are important, referring to the broad and deeply understood condition of man, saying that man is at the heart of your budget. That's right. I think one of those people at the center of your budget is someone other than Tadeusz Rydzyk... [[Oh, Jesus... ha, ha, ha!]] ...to which you have saved in recent years enormous millions, while increasing the Church Fund, which is designed for 140 million PLN. You have to add the money that Tadeusz Rydzyk will receive. You must do this so that you are aware of the money we are investing in the Catholic Church. As we know, the constitution makes it clear that we are dealing with a worldly neutral state, and therefore individual churches cannot be distinguished. The state therefore breaks the constitution already at the level of the budget law. I would like to ask you why from PLN 27.5 million to PLN 68 million has increased the amount for the National Radio and Television Council. Why would you decide that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to clear this up quickly. There is another very important element of this philosophy. Well, we need a coherent system of financing culture, which I have repeatedly spoken about from this tribune. Prime Minister Gliński, when he talks about modernization or construction of new museums in Poland, at the same time informs that these are our museums, with our world view and that is why there was a revolution in the Museum of World War II.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u234	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u235	Public money is being invested in these museums. This is also a very serious problem, which is related to the rule of law issue in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Porzucek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Defence expenditure shall be planned annually in accordance with the rule laid down in Article. 7 Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. This is intended to ensure that the level of expenditure is adequate in relation to the financial condition of the State. I have questions about that. To what extent was the defence expenditure planned for 2019? How much will this amount increase in relation to expenditure included in the 2018 Budget Act for this purpose? In addition, please indicate whether the statutory provisions on participation in this amount of property expenditure, i.e. at least 20%, and on research and development expenditure in the field of State defence, are complied with, not less than 2,5% ? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u238	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Using good economics, the government spends a lot more money, but it has specific priorities, e.g. Some things he spends a lot less on. When using this percentage of GDP, which is intended e.g. on national roads, it turns out that compared to 2015, you spend 18 billion less than if you spent the same percentage that we spent on national roads in 2015. For education - by 7.3 billion less, the percentage of spending on this is again decreasing. For the national road fund in absolute figures - 50% less. For military expenditure, for military purchases - also less than in 2015, by 7%. But where is more, where are the highest growths, the most insane growths? The most insane increases are on the supreme authorities of the state. At the office: President, Prime Minister, Senate - double increase, more than twice increase to Senate Office, twice increase to the Prime Minister. The president here is modest because the increase is only 20%. The huge increase in IPN - over PLN 100 million since 2015, and the Polish Academy of Sciences - increase in grants by only PLN 5 million. That's how you treat science. Polish Academy of Sciences, where there are many national, foreign centers, there are also historical institutes, gets in total, the entire Polish Academy of Sciences, 4,5 times [[♪ The bell ♪]] less than the IPN. Unfortunately, these are PiS priorities in this budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u241	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr Święcicki, are you surprised that the IPN needs 100 million more? After all, the whole story needs to be rewritten. Don't be surprised, it's not enough. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] There are two things I'd like to point out. The first relates to the amount free. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had a great time for three years. Why don't you let the Poles feel the strength of their own money? Why doesn't there even be a twitch when it comes to the idea of increasing the tax-free amount? This really is the most important thing for working Poles. He's not as happy with the money... as the one you give, at the same time burdening, as Mr. Jerzy Meysztowicz said. The second point I would like to draw attention to. In the budget prepared by you in part 85/08 you will find expenditure on the Lubuskie voivodship from which I come. It is mistakenly claimed that Eastern voivodships are economically weak, because if you compare the economic profile of all voivodships, it is the Lubuskie voivodship, lying in the west, that is one of the weakest voivodships in Poland. Unfortunately, it is overlooked by you. It is ignored in this budget and is ignored when it comes to making investment decisions. There's two waiting in line. One is an energy plant. And here, indeed, the Ministry of Energy must say that something like this can be done. The second - there is a foreign investor, whose state you have been blocking for many, many years, who this investor wants to invest big money, hire many people and pay taxes locally. If not in this budget, then it would be money from these taxes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to Lubuskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u242	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and, above all, the usual underestimated police budget. This year there was an extraordinary situation, because the chief of police asked the voivodship commanders to suspend the payments of allowances which normally receive officers, motivating this poor financial situation of the entire formation. Such things happen against official propaganda, especially the ministers of Zieliński and Brudziński, who claim that everything happens very well in the police. Therefore, I would like to ask whether you have secured funds in the police budget for the promises made by Minister Zieliński, which the Minister submitted under pressure by this three-month protest of officers. Specifically, it is about overtime proposals - next year it should be paid to police officers. I would also like to ask you whether you have secured overtime funds for the officers protecting the climate summit in Katowice. This summit will be held in December, and it will not be until next year that these measures should also be sent to the officers. Unfortunately, the experience of previous years teaches that although similar regulations concerned officers who were supposed to secure the NATO summit in Warsaw, those officers who were then sent to these activities, some of them still come to my office with information that they had not received such money, and it is common knowledge that the money was missing and had to be transferred to the police then. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from other resorts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u244	Please, Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the Environment department. I am mostly interested in waste management issues, and above all the fact that in 2018 the problem of fires in landfills increased on a large scale in Poland. The ongoing share of the shadow economy in the area of environmental protection, mainly in waste management, is related to the abandonment of municipal waste and hazardous waste in places not intended for this purpose, illegal waste management, recovery and recycling of packaging waste, illegal dismantling of vehicles withdrawn from use or illegal shipment of waste from abroad. These are serious problems requiring rapid response and solutions. At the same time, voivodship environmental inspectors report problems with insufficient high-specialist staff to carry out proper monitoring and rapid response to emerging irregularities and problems. Hence my question. Minister, what action is the government taking in the fight against the grey zone in waste management? Whether and what measures have been planned in the draft budget law for 2019 to strengthen the security inspectors [[♪ The bell ♪]] The environment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u247	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will defend small and medium-sized enterprises here, because they, even though they still have reduced income tax, are being harmed. I'll tell you how. Because VAT has been reversed in the performance of the contract. These small companies are usually subcontractors and they wait a long time for this VAT. There comes a check, after the check, another check and, let's assume, 90 and 120 days are waiting for the money. And that's what happened when these companies didn't have liquidity. They don't have liquidity, you can see it every step of the way. They use factoring, they take loans just to survive, but they don't invest. There are also data that say that about 30 billion of these coins are frozen. And that's what small and medium-sized companies do. The second point is the solidarity tax that Tadeusz Cymanski spoke about. I think there's a level playing field here, too. Again, small and medium-sized companies suffer, i.e. above all it is the registration, because they have this income tax calculated, and, let's assume, the presidents of large companies of the Treasury - on remuneration. They have from consumption, and those who have an entry in the records have to invest from it. And they invest, they usually reinvest their entire profit. That's why, Minister, I have a question about whether it's possible to analyze it again because I say it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] non-constitutional approach. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Since the beginning of Poland's membership, Poland has been a beneficiary of European Union funds, whether in the form of structural funds or for rural development. We have rapid economic growth, okay. 3.8% planned for 2019, this is one of the highest growth rates in the European Union, which means... Besides, it doesn't bother the opposition to say it's stagnation. Well, we also have to learn from how they take specific numbers. Is it because we have faster economic growth - of course we pay a higher contribution to the European Union - in 2019 Poland will be the net beneficiary of European Union funds? How much will we pay as a contribution to the European Union, and how much will we receive and for what purposes will we be able to spend these funds for? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u250	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u251	Mrs. Marshal! I am surprised about this question from my predecessor, Mrs Masłowska. After all, you want us to leave the European Union so that we are in a dispute with the European Union and that we do not get money from the European Union even for the Rural Development Programme. First of all, today is the Przemysl nurse strike, which after 30 days arrived in the Sejm for a committee meeting. Marshal Kuchciński of Przemyśl closed before them... [[Scandal!]] He held an away meeting at the center of dialogue, and he did not allow in Przemyśl where the nurses protested. Scandal! There is no problem of people with disabilities. The disabled were on strike, they said, and the state said, "We'll only give them diapers, there's no money for the rest." In this budget, there is no money in 2018. Military. You're either buying helicopters in Mielec or you've been promising it for three years. [[They buy scrap in Australia.]] You didn't buy the equipment, which is helicopters, for three years. There isn't any in the next budget. It's expensive. You had your own show. Every year, in 2017, your program was to be implemented. You cut 200 million. In 2018, you cut 300 million. This year, unfortunately, there is no budget. And there's nothing to be happy about with low unemployment. Twice the unemployment rate is in the Czech Republic. That's the result. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not a good budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u252	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about measures to equalise the educational opportunities of children and young people, to provide pupils with access to free textbooks, educational materials and training materials, and to implement the government program. This is reserve 26. The Minister boasts that she will equip schools with multimedia boards. I have a question: Why is this reserve 97 million less than in 2018? Last year was PLN 848.2 million, now there is PLN 751 million. What will the Minister buy textbooks, free textbooks for? Does he want to reduce free textbooks? How many media boards will it buy less in 2019? If he buys those plates at all. We hear about the programs: the schoolhouse, the availability+, the meals at school and at home. The measures for implementing the multiannual programme of State aid for nutrition have not increased. We've heard it's supposed to be shut down, it's supposed to be new instead. There was 200 million and then there was 200 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For what will local authorities equip school canteens if the funds have not increased? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u254	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've been talking about the state budget for hours. On the opposition side we hear constantly about spending money and public debt. Public debt grows, grows, grows - we hear it. [[How's the S12 road?]] Excellent, sir. It's like you're... [[We know he's doing well, excellent.]] Keep your mouth shut. I think it'll be great then. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u256	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u257	Back to public debt, Minister, I'd like to ask you about its height and its relation to GDP. Even adult economists should know that these two values need to be considered together. How does it look with regard to Polish GDP? How is this also the case, Minister, with regard to GDP and public debt in the European Union, in countries such as Italy, France, Spain? My second question is the question about health care. We spend more money on health care, self-government, roads, defense. It's always bad for the opposition. Unemployment is falling - bad. We hear it's our luck. I answer to you: happiness favours a better one. It's just the way things are in life. I'd like to ask you about your medical expenses. What are they like this year in relation to what was in 2018? What will they look like in the coming years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, Mr Morawiecki is not here today. Today is a significant day because we're talking about the budget. We hear from the government that this is a pro-social budget, a great success. What happened today? The nurses who fight for their dignity are fighting to get a raise of 1,200 zlotys because they earn 2,400 gross are not allowed into the Sejm. What are you afraid of? I would like to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki, unfortunately not personally, because you also talk a lot about pro-social actions, as his words in the restaurant Owl and Friends should be understood: Social expectations should be lowered. You'll dig ditches and then you'll bury them. Mr Morawiecki spoke especially to young people. Is this really your real plan? Will the Poles work for a bowl of rice? Is this really the real face of the PiS, ladies and gentlemen? Most likely, because all these words of Prime Minister Morawiecki were recorded and all of Poland heard about them. Since Mr Rydzyk has received over PLN 100 million from the state budget over the last few years, I would like to ask how much money will be transferred to Rydzyk in the following years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u260	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers! High Seym! Yeah, the budget's pro-social. The government is making efforts to improve the quality of life of citizens by providing free access to goods, products, services and opportunities for participation in social and public life. This announcement is consistently implemented, in accordance with the exposé of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki on 12 December Ub. in which the Prime Minister stated that the measure of maturity of the state is how he treats his weaker citizens and how he takes care of them. Our great task will be to create a truly friendly Poland for the elderly and the disabled. I therefore have a question to what extent, through the Government's programme, Accessibility + the government will support citizens and use what resources to support disabled people in terms of accessibility to public space. The next question concerns the next year's elections to the Europarliament and to the national parliament. Is there a reserve in the budget for this purpose and how much? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u262	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the promise of the Ministry of National Education regarding a programme to finance warm meals in Polish schools. Until recently, you were shouting out about starving children and throwing this state on our shoulders, and now, in the third year of your reign, there are no more laments and accusations, but you say beautiful words about this... [[You guys were talking about porridge and mirabelles.]] ...that it is obvious that in the 21st century a student must be able to eat at least one warm meal for proper functioning. You say that only in the third year of your government. I'm asking you, what about the promises, Minister, about the program to fund one warm meal for each primary school student. Amounts in the budget, in the reserve also, in this respect remained at the level of last year. Please indicate to me where the amounts are planned for next year. And let me just remind you that this program has been to be implemented since autumn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u264	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think this is a very good budget, with a record low deficit. And I think you have a problem with the fact that this is such a good budget, because if the budget deficit were twice the size, twice the size... [[Oh, no.]] ...and I will not mention here because of the High House, how high was the budget deficit when it comes to the attitude towards GDP during the Civil Platform... But it's a waste of time, I think the most important thing is to say that this is a pro-family budget, because this is a budget in which funds are guaranteed for a number of investments concerning Polish families, and so I also treat these secured funds for the 500+ family programme. On the other hand, there are two things that I am particularly interested in and which have not yet been discussed. First of all, it's about the emergency notification system. In connection with the Emergency Notification System Act, we know that annual measures are secured for this purpose, including. in the special reserve, and I would like to receive detailed information on how the process of improving the handling of emergency calls at 112 is progressing. The second question, concerning the census, to be held in Poland in 2021. We know that next year, in 2019, a trial census will take place from 1 to 31 August. Has the funds been secured for this purpose, to what extent [[♪ The bell ♪]] and what is the implementation of this commitment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions. The first question concerns income. It's about the fossil tax issue. This tax only pays KGHM. In the parliamentary election campaign, PiS promised KGHM and residents to abolish this tax immediately after the elections. In the meantime, 1,400 million PLN is expected for next year. Why don't you keep your word? The situation in the markets with regard to copper prices has changed. And second question. I'm talking about the salaries of social services workers. People with very low salaries work in social services homes. Work is very hard, qualifications are required and workers are not available. There's a lot of fluctuating right now, and the workers are protesting. When will the government see this problem? I believe that this could happen if we continue to ignore this problem where patients remain unattended because it is very difficult to find suitable carers. I'm asking you to answer me when the government helps workers in social services homes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u268	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Wypych, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u269	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current government has a special concern for our compatriots, who want to return as part of the repatriation programme, as well as return to the country. The expression of this was, among other things. the adoption of a law on repatriation by unanimity. Therefore, I ask the question whether the draft budget for 2019 has guaranteed funds to secure the needs of assistance to the repatriates and to facilitate their return and settlement in Poland. If yes, how much, as well as whether this amount is increasing in relation to the current year? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u270	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition spoke on several occasions about a decrease in the level of investment. The representatives of the PiS and the Minister didn't say anything about it. Let me remind you that the strategy prepared by Prime Minister Morawiecki predicted an increase in investment rate from 20% to 22% and even 25% in 2020. This year, in the second quarter, it was only 17.8% So, in fact, the level of investment has fallen. It is a spectacular failure to implement this strategy in this area, threatening serious consequences in terms of our economic development. Against this background, the question arises: How does the government assess the causes of this decrease in the level of investment and what does the government believe [[♪ The bell ♪]] do you need to take measures to reverse this trend? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have four questions and please answer in writing. The total budget for 2019 as function 20: health amounts to PLN 11.9 billion. Isn't that enough? It seems like it should be at least twice. Is the health of all of us so little worth? Question two. To task 20.4: the development of infrastructure is only 1.35 billion PLN. Was there an extension of the University of Clinical Hospital at the Medical University of Wroclaw? In 2015, there was a beautiful clinic for children with cancer, and now a building C is needed to accommodate, among others. adult cancer patients. Question three. Task 20. PLN 5 and PLN 1.55 billion. This is prevention, education, health promotion. Is it foreseen - after what I heard here today, I hope at 200%, not at 100% - education, including the education of some Members, as regards vaccination, what do they mean? The point is that this is progress and that this is a topic that should not be discussed, as well as flat ground. One last question. Is there money in the budget for nurses who are on strike? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Przemyśl? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Three things. The first is about culture. In recent years, the expenditure on culture has increased significantly. This is even a 20% increase compared to the times of the Civic Platform and PSL governments. As a result, many new state institutions of culture - the Polish Royal Opera, the National Institute of Polish Cultural Heritage abroad, the National Institute of Architecture and Urban Science - increased funds for the Museum of Combat and Martyrdom in Treblinka, as well as funds for the implementation of the multi-annual programme. The question is: Is there a further increase in cultural expenditure and the protection of national heritage in 2019? Case number two. In the public consultation there is a very important draft law on the establishment of the so-called. maternal pensions which, according to the justification of this project, are intended to cost 700 million net. In that case, are funds provided in the budget or in the Social Insurance Fund to finance from 1 January 2019 this new form of assistance to mothers who have devoted themselves to raising children? Okay, here's the deal. Members of the opposition, especially the Civic Platform, threw these rice bowls at the Prime Minister here. How did wages increase during the rule of law and justice over the rule of the Civic Platform? [[Applause]] Is the increase in these wages next year, within this framework [[♪ The bell ♪]] State budget... [[Especially teachers.]] ...will it also be greater than GDP growth? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u276	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of which, rice bowl - a quote from the tapes again. We must lower our expectations - as the Prime Minister said at Owl and Friends. How, then, do you lower your expectations? By building in your Byzantium firm? By spending more than any other government in history? So let's see what the Prime Minister offers the Ministry of Health for hospitals, medical services, which he offers in the field of education, universities for research, for salaries for scientific staff. It's not enough. For the defense of the country - not enough. And for victims of violence in the family - tragically little, because only 19 million. All these resorts, the Prime Minister promises a bowl of rice. So let's go back to spending at the Prime Minister's office. For 2019 expenditure is planned for 256 555 thousand. That's an increase of 81 million compared to last year. There is no agreement, Prime Minister, to lower the expectations of Poles and Poles, but the Prime Minister's expenditure must be drastically reduced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u278	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We notice an increase in expenditure on the broadly understood modernisation of public policy services, including expenditure on equipment, equipment, weapons and construction investments. Is expenditure planned in the State budget also foreseen for 2019 for the activities of voluntary firefighters? In view of their size, territorial distribution and proximity, the activities of these organisations are undoubtedly important in ensuring the protection of citizens and their sense of security. Hence, the state budget should include resources for this purpose. Are they, and if so, how high? Another question. The total grant from the state budget to the Social Insurance Fund was planned at PLN 49.4 billion. This is a value of nearly PLN 2.8 billion higher than that recorded in the current year's plan. Where does this increase come from? What does this mean for the result of the state budget? And one last question. It already applies so-called. Act 6% , [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the annual increase in healthcare resources is to be ensured in order to reach a rate of 6% in 2024. How much expenditure is spent on financing health care for 2019 and how much will it increase in relation to 2018? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u280	Thank you, Member. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u281	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Two questions. First question to the government. What measures does the government really want to support local authorities in 2019? Because in the Act on the Fund for Roads, you do not talk about the limit of expenditure, but about the maximum limit of expenditure, both from the state budget and from the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and from the budgets of the voivodships. We, as we wanted to provide support, saved PLN 1 billion for these roads, in the assembly of 50% with local authorities. The question is, why don't you do it? You have to guess. [[Who saw that 1 billion?]] And second question. One of the representatives of the PiS here was very sorry for the large amount of expression that we left nothing behind in the railway programme. It is I who want to say that 3 days ago robots were interrupted on a well prepared section for modernization of Warsaw - Lublin. The contractors have left because subcontractors and suppliers have not been paid. I'm asking you why you didn't use the instrument we left you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. the possibility of guaranteeing payment to subcontractors and suppliers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u282	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the club's speech, Mr Bogdan Rzońc, who discussed part 39: Transport, exchanged a grant to universities of PLN 24 million and in this context listed the Rzeszów University of Technology, and my mother university in which I worked. He found protectionism in the area of these measures addressed to the polytechnics. That is why I wanted to ask whether this 24 million grant concerns only one university or all universities that train civil aviation pilots. I would like to ask one more question about the 2017-2020 prison service modernisation programme, which aims to improve the safety of prisons and detentions by providing appropriate equipment and improving the conditions for serving by prison officers and civil servants. I would like to ask if, according to the programme in the draft budget, funds of 309 for officials and 300 for civilian workers are secured from 1 January. In addition to these increases are they planned [[♪ The bell ♪]] Any additional funds for the raises for the officers and employees of the Prison Service? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u284	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u285	Mrs. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Because in this debate, in these unhealthy emotions, the words that call into question and even deny the fact that the tax system is being sealed at all, I would like to ask whether the actions we have done so far are very important, concrete, real, and those that are still on the agenda, because this is not the end of everything, because of what is called joyful creativity, whether they are the consequence of hard real EU directives and practices in many European countries. This is very important. And do the blade of these regulations, the difficulties resulting from their application actually hit Polish entrepreneurs, or are they directed only at very narrow ones, I stress, into a very narrow group of those companies which unfortunately cheat, which hit honest companies working on the market, which pay taxes, employ cleanly? What are these... Because there's this apocalyptic picture of wanting to discredit our actions, and they're real, real and effective. It's a pity 15 seconds, but I'm done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u286	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is wise to continue the good practices of the predecessors, and this is the uniform control file. It is wise to invest in a fiscal apparatus, because basically it builds a budget, allows it to be constructed. You've been hearing a lot about VAT carousels lately, about stocks. Well, it's a good thing the National Tax Administration is working really well, but I have a question for you: How much of this money goes into the budget? Physical money, not virtual money - we've eliminated companies, we've stored it, we're paying for storage costs, human costs. Maybe it's in the media, but there's a loss in the budget. So I have a question about how much actual money will go into the budget of all these shares. And second question. When was the last time there was a raise in the IRS? We want a functioning camera there, a functioning system. People left, some by way of reform, some by way of retirement, some by way of retirement, these jobs were not completed, increases have not been in place for many years, maybe only where offices were already falling apart, they were motivated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In order for the office to function efficiently, employees must be well trained and well motivated. How much did you spend on a raise for tax officials? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The municipalities are entitled to reimbursement of part of the expenditure incurred under the so-called "state budget'. It's a capital fund. This return is defined as a percentage depending on the profitability of the municipalities at 20, 30, 40% but there is also a limit set out in the Social Fund Act, which is transferred to the Budget Act. For 2019 it amounts to 138.5 million. But we already know today that there will be a shortage of PLN 55.5 million in order to realize this entitlement of municipalities to return. [[Why would you say that?]] Of course, no one listens to the Minister of Finance, it's normal that this is happening. So 55.5 million PLN will not be returned to the municipalities. The Social Fund is important. I would like to draw attention to the error of the correction mechanism. An amendment is expected here. It should also be noted that even if we do not pay to the municipalities, this correction mechanism causes the creation of a skinner, which in 2017 amounted to 12.5 million PLN, which went to the police. What does the Sołecki fund have in common with payments or benefits in kind for police officers? Nothing, of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pay attention to that. In the committee of local government, we have long raised this issue. So far, there is no constructive response from the Minister of Finance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Expected GDP growth - 3.8 and inflation - 2,3 . Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister: What will the new agricultural budget look like? For agriculture - that in connection with which Minister Ardanowski and the Prime Minister go to the country and tell about the great money they spend on drought aid. I'll just quote the numbers. In 2015, 55 billion were allocated to agriculture, in 2018.49. With GDP growth of 3.8 this year, you only allocate 49. Where's the $6.8 billion? Who took it? Where was it destined? Why, by telling and lying in the country that you care about her, are you stealing money from farmers? The 6 billion prime minister didn't know what it was for, maybe the cheese he turned his head on. How much money will you spend on helping farmers, on compensation, on drought aid, on drought disaster, on helping to eliminate the effects of ASF? Is there money to help the Veterinary Inspection? By the way, did you again spend 12 million in the budget to maintain two luxurious KOWR headquarters in Warsaw? Uninstalled because you don't need them. And is there a special box for compensation for the non-codex dismissal of employees in former agencies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A few million dollars have already gone into these damages this year. Do you have money for this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u292	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! During the work on Law 2.0 on Higher Education, the Minister of Science and Higher Education signalled the possibility of wage increases in higher education. Please indicate the amount allocated to these increases and what percentage the salary will be increased next year. The discussion also covered the problem of low salaries of employees in institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences. I would like to hear whether and how the budget law will solve this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u294	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u295	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'd have a million questions, but what can you do in one and a half minutes. But let me put it another way. Corn cannot speak, but it corresponds to its tongue during the hammer that its moisture content is 14.20% and for one and a half months before it is reduced in Poland. Whoever can listen knows that it was a giant, never recorded such a long-lasting drought, occurring in a huge area covering almost all of Poland. What's in it for us? Our Minister, whom I very much like, has allocated 1.5 billion to help in 2018 and zero in 2019. It is about helping in connection with uncollected agricultural fetuses worth at least PLN 10 billion, in my respect. And the fruits of this drought will come... [[We don't know if there's gonna be a drought.]] ...in the form of poorer quality feed, the food value of animal feed, only six months later. Mr Telus showed signs of excitement and euphoria due to the never recorded position of 1.5 billion in the state budget. But so what if it doesn't solve the problems at all, the issue of help, and as usual, farmers will stay with their hands in the potty. In the special provisions - I will give you in detail - in terms of insurance, we have 200 million less compared to 2018 and are to be drought insurance. Fighting infectious diseases - 140 million for ASF, avian influenza, [[♪ The bell ♪]] bioinsurance. This is a joke. In general, 150 million less was allocated to agriculture for the years 2018 to 2019. Where's the river of money? Where's the money? They just don't exist. You do stairs, illusions, farmers get excited about getting something, and they get nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u296	Thank you very much, sir. We have exhausted the list of Members who have been assigned to the question. The questions are first answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Andrzej Bittel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There were some questions that are addressed to the Ministry of Infrastructure. I'll try to answer them exhaustively, I hope. Mr Gosiewski asked for funding for local roads in the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. Since 2016, some 190 million local roads have been funded from the infrastructure department. From 2019 onwards, the Self-Government Road Fund will be operational, which will allow for a much larger allocation of local resources. Particular consideration will be given to those self-governments that are less affluent. For 10 years, about 36 million will be allocated from the fund to local roads. I am sure that you are interested in the allocation algorithm of these funds, but this question is so premature that this algorithm depends on the content of the law. There will be a bill - there will be an algorithm and then we will be able to divide these funds into voivodships. Mr Suchoń asked for the directions of S1 Bielsko-Biała - Costowy. I would like to say that the tender for this route will be launched in February 2019. The task will be completed by 2023. The task is in the limit, in the road construction program fund. This year at the end of the preparatory work we will spend 4 million PLN, and next year about 1.5 million PLN. This will allow completion of preparatory work, accession to the tendering procedure. As far as S52, the Beskidway of Integration, is concerned, this express road was registered in the Council of Ministers regulation in 2016. Subsequently, as an express road in 2017, it was included in the national road construction programme. Preparatory work is currently underway. This year's environmental decision was made, but there are appeals, you have to say it. We are determined to make this way from the next perspective. Mr Gadowski asked about the railway line to Jastrzębie-Zdrój, where passenger traffic stopped in 2001. [[Yes, sir.]] I have to say, I've dealt with this subject, too. The basic initiative in this area should belong and belong to the Marshal's office because it is a railway line which is outside the TENT and should therefore be implemented within the framework of the RPO, the regional operational programme. However, in relation to this railway line, which certainly needs to be recreated, there is a more than standard interest in the Polish Railway Line PKP. There are talks with local authorities and with the Marshal's office about two matters. In order to assemble funding for a feasibility study, it needs to be deleted there, and the Marshal's office must ensure that the train runs there. [[He did. He signed an agreement.]] Yes, sir. And it's going on. [[But will you use the money?]] If there is a feasibility study and the amount is known, this task is being prepared under the next EU perspective. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Not in five years. Maybe not in five years. Mr Żmijan asked two questions. The first is the financial sources of the Self-Government Road Fund. I will repeat: National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management - 1,4 billion, grant from the Ministry of Infrastructure - 1,1 billion, grant from MON - 0,5 billion, State Forests - 2% of wood sales, profit from Treasury companies - 7.5% , and as part of this initiative, this fund, the funding for poorer municipalities will be up to 80%. This is the fundamental difference between what was before and what would be in the near future. About Astaldi. Thank you very much for this question, because this is a question that actually moves minds in the Lublin region at the moment. Let me put it this way: Astaldi - I met with the company's representatives twice - suggested that in early October liquidity would be ensured when it comes to railway contracts. At the end of the month, a letter was sent to the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways that there was a procedure under Italian law in Rome, that there was a procedure for protection against creditors. The Polish Railway Lines did not get such a letter. On the other hand, they received a letter that could be called a one-sided termination of the contract. It's a formula unknown to our law and we didn't recognize it. We have requested work within a short period of 2 days, this deadline will expire today, while we have started an intensive dialogue with subcontractors. The result of this dialogue is that there have been three meetings during these three working days. Today, the first payments are made to those subcontractors who have submitted documents to allow the payment of funds. We expect other subcontractors to be sent to us, to PKP PLK to provide documents that allow us to make a replacement payment. In order to reach for the guarantee, certain conditions must be met. They are not yet fulfilled for today, they will be fulfilled in a moment. So that we're thinking about guarantees, too. Mr Nobletka asked about schools, about money for universities. 24 million, 31% more than last year for the Rzeszow University of Technology, PWSZ in Chełm, for the school in Dęblin, Poznań University of Technology, Silesian University of Technology. Thank you very much. I think I've exhausted the subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u298	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at Sebastian Skuz's Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u299	Dear Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u300	Excuse me, Minister, I've been thinking. I wanted to give a very warm welcome to students from schools in Malanów, who are listening to our debate today at the gallery. Welcome. [[Applause]] And you're welcome, sir. I'll give you the floor. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Sebastian Skuz: Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The scope of the Minister for Science and Higher Education concerned two questions by Mrs Michalek and one question by Mrs Tomaszewska. The first question is the increase in spending on science and higher education foreseen for 2019. So in the system of science and higher education in the budget from national funds this will be an increase in absolute figures by 1358 million and together with the funds from the European Union budget - an increase by 1969 million PLN. This percentage will increase nominal values by 6% respectively in the area of national measures and 8% in general with budget resources from the European Union. The second question concerned the issue of wage increases in science and higher education. The answer is yes. The 2019 budget includes an amount in the special reserve for salary increases of PLN 916.5 million, which would guarantee a 7% increase in salaries. On the issue of institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences, I would like to say that we are conducting analytical work with the Polish Academy of Sciences to assess the budgetary implications of increases in the system of institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences. But I must emphasize that Law 2.0 was intended to apply to the system of higher education, not to systemic changes in the system of functioning of institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Polish Academy of Sciences itself. Nevertheless, the Institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences will certainly also benefit from the increase in general expenditures on science and higher education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. I ask now the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the parliamentary debate, one very important wording was pronounced, one very important statement that this budget, which is being considered by the High House, is a social responsibility budget, and that is indeed the case. But it is also a budget of responsibility for the safety of Poles. We are not naked, we have prepared and implement a programme of modernization of uniform services: Police, State Fire Department, Border Guard, State Security Service. It is about those officers who serve Poles every day, who serve our security. The programme of modernization of uniformed services is: the security of Poles as a value of very important, important, better equipment of uniformed services and an increase in salaries of our officers. In 2019 we plan to spend PLN 3075 million on the programme of modernization of uniform services. This is the amount that has been entered into the expenditure rule, and we will implement it in this maximum dimension. In this amount of more than PLN 2035 million are funds that will go to the Police, PLN 540 million to the State Fire Department, PLN 430 million to the Border Guard, while the State Security Service will have the amount of PLN 69 million. There was a question about funding voluntary firefighters. Thank you so much for that question. These are our great partners who are responsible for the safety of Poles, for fire safety, but also save those who have suffered road accidents. Next year we plan to transfer the amount of PLN 128 million, over PLN 128 million for voluntary firefighters, of which PLN 83 950 thousand. It will go to these volunteer firefighters, to those units that operate in the national rescue system. You also asked about the police, about the shape of the next year's police budget. I would like to inform you that the state budget provides for expenditure on maintaining the police in the amount of PLN 11 062 million. There was also a question about securing funding for the organisation of the COP24 International Climate Summit. Here the amount of more than 9400 thousand, including 7293 thousand, is secured in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. These are the funds that will be allocated to police officers for the payment of salaries, additional benefits that will be linked to their security. You have also asked about the measures that are necessary for the proper security and functioning of the emergency notification system - I will remind you, this is the system whereby each of us can contact the relevant services. The amount of PLN 51.5 million is planned in the provision of the ninth state budget. These are significant measures that will allow very modern, very reliable operation of emergency call centers, which work with different voivodships. A question has also been asked about a certain ethical, moral obligation - but this phenomenon also has an economic and economic dimension - namely the process of repatriation. Thank you very much, Mrs President, for being a great advocate of this wonderful process of returning Poles to Poland, of returning to their homeland. This year 58 million PLN was secured in the next year's budget in the 13th reserve. This has been increased, also thanks to the personal decision of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister Teresa Czerwińska, by PLN 7.5 million. These are measures that will allow us to carry out a very efficient, reliable repatriation procedure. The Members also asked about the shape of the Social Fund in 2019. The amount of PLN 138.5 million has been planned for this fund. In our view, this amount is sufficient and adequate. I would just like to mention that this year we have a failure on the local government side amounting to PLN 12 million. Therefore, what we offer under the Sołecki Fund is an appropriate amount, it is an amount that is deeply appropriate to secure the needs that are financed by the Sołecki Fund. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u302	Thank you, Minister. I now invite the representative of the Ministry of Health, the Undersecretary of State of Mr Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u303	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm not going to keep the chronology of these questions, but I'm going to start with the most important question, which is the two questions that have been repeated. - or three times, for expenditure on health protection broadly understood in 2019. According to the draft budget, total expenditure on health protection is about PLN 97.6 billion and is more than PLN 7.6 billion than in 2018. It is worth mentioning that these expenditures exceed the statutory level set out in the Act by 6% and exceed it by almost PLN 1.2 billion. According to the Act, it was to be planned at the level of approx. 4.86% , are at 4.92% GDP. Referring to Mrs Chybick's question - I do not see - whether these expenditures should not increase substantially more, even twice, I would not like to practice demagogy here, but I would like to point out the figures, because these are really the basis for constructive discussion. Between 2010 and 2015, for 6 years, these expenditures increased by 16.7 billion, i.e. they increased at an average rate of about 2.8 billion. By comparison, this year's growth is now 7.6 billion, more than three times more than on average during that period. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Percent?]] As we speak now, let us, according to chronology, ask Mr Szczerby about the national programme for Alzheimer's patients. It is worth noting that health policy programmes, in accordance with the Benefits Act, must respond either to an important epidemiological phenomenon or to other problems if they are possible to eliminate or reduce them. In the Ministry of Health, but not only in the Ministry of Health, because also in the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, also in cooperation with scientific associations, in 2016 and 2017 an analysis of possibilities was carried out which quite clearly demonstrated that the creation of a programme for this group of patients is not justified, in particular due to the lack of scientifically documented effective preventive measures, as well as methods of effective treatment. I answer Mr Arndt's question on the special provisions, which are reflected in item 91, for less than PLN 300 million, 299 million. I will actually allow myself to provide information in writing, because the number of tasks that are scheduled to be carried out is 22. The most important are the partial financing of medicines for people aged 75 years or over, the implementation of tasks related to the Public Health Act, mainly related to the National Health Programme, increases for nurses and midwives in the units subordinate to the Health Minister, increases in salaries for medical workers as a result of the Law of 8 June 2017 on how to determine the lowest basic salary, but also other tasks such as the construction of medical simulation centres, grants to medical universities in connection with the increase in admission limits for nursing courses, etc., etc. The rest of the job - more small amounts. The last group of questions whether Mr Suchuni and Mrs Chybick's question concerned education and the allocation of funds to education of various social groups, in fact, concerning preventive vaccination. I would like to point out that today, the draft budget law clearly sets out the amount that we intend to allocate to preventive vaccinations. I understand that many of you have referred to today's discussion, a discussion that is really just beginning a process, just the process of talking, the process of discussing whether the preventive vaccination system in Poland can be changed, worth it, and it is worth it, and really still quite a long way, as I understand it, to constructive conclusions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u304	Thank you very much. Now, please, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to Mr Zbigniew Biernat's question, which action was taken in the fight against the grey zone by the Minister for the Environment, which measures were secured in 2019, I inform you that in connection with the numerous fires that were in the first half of 2018, landfills, generally illegal landfills, in 2018 two laws were amended just after these phenomena: the Waste Management Act and the Waste Act, as well as the Environmental Inspection Act. In view of these new tasks, which were directed towards the Environmental Protection Inspections, financial resources for the next year were allocated in the amount of PLN 80 million. These are the resources of the state budget to increase employment, which will allow for the introduction of a system, a 24-hour control system for environmental inspections. There has also been increased funding to increase laboratory capacity, to equip with appropriate laboratory tools for the staff of the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor and voivodship Environmental Inspectorates. This is the amount of PLN 100 million planned in the financial plan of the National Environmental Fund for the related tasks. At the same time, while implementing and already joining the increase in the number of people employed in the Environmental Protection Inspection, this year thanks to the Ministry, the Minister of Finance has been mobilised from the reserve - 6.5 PLN million to gradually increase employment in voivodship environmental inspectors in order to increase the current intervention controls, especially for waste disposal sites. The effects of these laws are already quite visible. A few weeks ago, it was possible to locate shipments of illegal municipal waste from the United Kingdom, more than 1000 tonnes imported by sea - they were sent back to the United Kingdom. On several occasions, illegal imports of waste by cars have also been located. This waste has also been sent back. So this money is still modest for this year, but it is already 6.5 million PLN, because it was not foreseen in the budget last year. The funding for the following year - 80 million for the employment of new environmental inspectors - will allow round-the-clock shifts and inspections, and an additional 100 million for laboratories, equipment and equipment will help to deal with the situation in the fight against the grey zone in waste management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u306	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski to speak. But before the Minister starts, I'll just say at an hour. 5:30 p.m. will be announced, so that the more masters will be able to speak, the shorter the waiting period will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'll try to answer questions about my department. So there was a question by Mr Pudłowski: Can an energy plant be established in Lublin Voivodeship? I would like to say that the energy company is making decisions on this matter. From what I have learned since the question has been asked, this case has already been reported and analysed in the scope of the company, and then it will be subject to possible approval. Such decisions, I just want to add, increase energy costs. Therefore, these analyses, if any, must demonstrate that this is essential for the proper service of the population, as well as for the proper provision of energy and the elimination of the consequences of accidents. This case is in the middle of an analysis right now. Question of Mr Gadowski: What resources are earmarked in mining to compensate widows and orphans? What measures are currently available, which will be allocated in 2019 to the decommissioning of mining? I reply that as far as compensation for widows and orphans is concerned, the law on mining compensation for widows and orphans was analysed today in the permanent committee of the Council of Ministers. The draft was adopted by the committee. This is PLN 240 million, which this law assumes to pay out. Except, from what I understand, it's possible from the next year's budget. What kind of mines are gonna be... What measures are intended for mining at all? [[For decommissioning in 2019]] Thus, in 2019 the total expenditure on coal mining for support measures amounts to 1,230,723 thousand. zł. These are the means of both... In these measures there are both money related to the liquidation of the land, the basic restructuring of the land, the corridors and all the effects after closed mines. The issue is that only by the end of 2018 mines, whose land is exhausted and which need to be re-cultivated, can be transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. Analysis, which is carried out in terms of the possibilities to continue mining, shows that actually two parts of the mines, i.e. part of the mine, as a separate movement, and Piekary, may still be in the restructuring of the mines. In other cases, Sośnica mine was considered, but Sośnica mine showed itself by obtaining additional mining walls. She won the case in court, the Polish Górnicza Group won the case in court with the municipality regarding the release of new mining decks. It is the Sośnica mine that guarantees profitability for the coming years. For this reason, this mine is withdrawn because it was previously reported as the one that would end the extraction. These are the ones that are targeted. Thus, for the coming years, these remaining mines, which operate within our companies, guarantee that mining is profitable enough for those companies to decide at the moment that they will later rehabilitate the mining sites on their shoulders. Because when it comes to those mines that end mining after 2018, all the remains of these mines will have to be rehabilitated at the expense of the mining company. That's where we did everything we could to explain exactly which mines... Very thorough analyses were done by the Polish Mining Group to explain what is the chance of mines, how long they are able to continue mining, so that it will somehow massage. The second point is that the European Commission notified public aid to continue working in those mines which were put into the SRK because we did not have the funds, we did not have the consent and public aid after 2018 concerning these mines, the remains of mines which are in the Company for Restructuring of Mines. The European Commission has agreed that we can provide public aid for the rehabilitation of these areas, for the complete physical elimination of those closed mines which are at the Company for the Restructuring of Mine... We can continue this work until 2023 and public aid has been notified for this purpose, and it has been calculated how much it may cost. Therefore, in accordance with this notification to the European Commission, we can extend the operation of the Coal Mining Act until 2023. So much for this. There was still a question in connection with the signal about the possibility of an increase in electricity prices for entrepreneurs, especially at the moment it is visible. The first company to announce an increase in electricity prices, PKP Energy, which signalled, depending on the reception points, reaching up to 70% increase in electricity prices. I would like to stress that from the point of view of our analysis of this type of growth, this size, does not seem rational. Of course, there is a rapid rise in CO2 emissions prices from EUR 5 at the beginning of this year to already in some cases in recent months up to EUR 25. These emission costs, as far as the European market is concerned, are directly added to the energy price. However, the European Commission is also currently under review, because I have addressed a special speech to both Commissioner Vestager and Commissioner Canete's Energy Commissioner to investigate this issue, because from the point of view of how this system works, it would be understandable to increase the prices of these powers by several dozen, even a dozen percent, but an increase of 400%. seems completely unjustified and is part of either political or speculative actions. Moreover, as regards this request to investigate the case and the legal conditions that had to be met in order to be considered as eligible for examination, these conditions were met the day before yesterday. So I assume that the European Commission will step in on this. That is why it is difficult at the moment to comment on the amount of possible increases in energy prices, because I hope that the European Commission's actions will lead to these emission prices falling. They have already reached EUR 25,7. Today, this price is slightly over 21 euros. Thus, such a trend, as well as the fact that other countries have joined the protests for this reason and the request for a thorough examination of the causes of such sudden increases, indicates that such increases in energy prices should not take place. This is exactly what we are analysing and even taking into account issues of this type, that if a certain higher price of emission allowances continues, we will think that, however, compensation will also arise for individual consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u308	Thank you very much. I invite the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Secretary of State Simon Giżyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In reply to Mrs Niedziela, I would like to say that drought aid of PLN 1.5 billion will be paid in full in 2018. In comparison, the 2015 drought, which was completely comparable to the year's drought, was served by the government at that time by PLN 450 million. I would also like to correct the other information contained in Mrs Niedziela's question. For the fight against ASF next year we plan to spend 200 million more, including 140 million from the reserve, it is about item. 12, to combat infectious diseases of animals, and 60 million from the reserve from the pose. 8, it is about co-financing European programmes. There is also provision for compensation for workers made redundant from ARiMR and KOWR, for the execution of judgments. These are the funds secured in the plans of the next year's budget for these two institutions: Arimr and KOWR. This comparison of PLN 55bn from 2015 and PLN 49bn from the budget for next year is quite clear to all who adopt the budget year after year for several or several years. The point is that European funds, the national budget, including the operation of European programmes, and the CRUS, are budgetary building factors. And these three factors also have an obvious and obvious impact on the scale of the budget. However, I would like to make it clear that we must not abstract from next year's budget in two categories, and that is what we have already shown in relation to the construction of the fight against drought, to compensation after drought. If there are emergency situations, crises, very difficult situations, it reaches for funds outside the agricultural budget. And this was the case in the case of drought, where more than PLN 1 billion was found in budget item 8, namely the one connected with the co-financing of European funds. And so, with the involvement of the whole government in sharing the national good, we will respond wherever we need to, and the needs of agriculture will be at the forefront here and at the forefront, as it was this year. And it is also quite obvious that in terms of what is in the budget for rural areas, the area of Polish agriculture dedicated, there can be no abstraction from PLN 11 billion, which goes annually to the 500+ programme in rural areas, for agricultural families, for rural families. I reply to Mr Aichler: it is not that there will be a standstill or a reduction in insurance next year. This year's level of 560 million will be exceeded by 90 million zlotys, a total of 650 million zlotys, of which 90 million are drought insurance with a reduction franchise mechanism. The fight against ASF is more than 200 million - and I repeat what is, in Mrs Niedziela's reply, not less than 150 million, but more than 200. These are the two questions that were directly related to the Ministry to which I answered. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u310	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite the representative of the Ministry of Justice, Secretary of State Michał Wójcik, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u311	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, A brief answer to Mr Nobleman's question on the question of securing the funds for the increase for the Prison Service officers. The prison modernisation programme has secured amounts which give an average increase of PLN 309 for Prison Service officers, and PLN 300 for civil workers, as of 1 January 2019. This money is in the special reserve, that is about PLN 115 million. On the other hand, from 1 July 2019 there will be an average of PLN 253 for officers and PLN 250 for civil servants, the amount of PLN 50 600 000. zł. These appropriations are entered in the budget in Part 37: Justice. Together in 2019 the increase will be on average for officers by PLN 562 and for civil servants by PLN 550. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u312	Thank you very much. I invite the representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Secretary of State of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able to take part in the discussion as well. A few questions were directly related to our ministry. Among other things, Mrs Skowrońska wondered whether there would be a shortage of resources for the disabled in the planned 2019 budget. I would like to remind you that budget resources are secured not only for current tasks but also for increased tasks. They are protected, among others. appropriations for an increase of PLN 106 of the amount of the care provision - up to PLN 1583. The funds are secured for an increase of PLN 100 of the special allowance for carers of disabled persons. The amounts for the raise are secured again by PLN 100 of the welfare allowance. From 1 November also the amount of care allowance is increased - by PLN 31.42. In addition, the budget also secures funds for these tasks, which are directly linked to this year's follow-up, i.e. 500+, including 500+ for families with disabled children, family allowances and family allowances. I will remind you that among the supplements there is also a supplement for families with disabled children. The PFRON plan provides 3321 million PLN for funding for salaries. This year there was PLN 3150 million in the budget. We can see that there is a clear increase. The social and professional rehabilitation carried out within the framework of tasks contracted and programmes of the Supervisory Board of PFRON and redistribution transfers for local governments is provided for PLN 1539 million. In 2018 it was PLN 1312 million. The draft budget also provides for resources for the implementation of the Lifelong Programme. A total of PLN 633 million is foreseen in 2019. We see, therefore, that, of course, in all headings the budget provides for an increase in expenditure. Ms Krystyna Szumilas asked about the nutrition programme and whether the programme for school nutrition will be implemented because the budget does not see any change. Of course, there are secured funds for what is currently in the law, i.e. the State aid scheme for nutrition. I would like to remind you that this is a co-financing of the task of the municipalities as regards providing a meal for the residents of the local community. I would like to remind you that this year 350 million PLN is foreseen in the voivod's budgets and 200 million in reserve. The same is true of the 2019 budget, and the 550 million are equally written down. However, since the government at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers adopted the programme "Eat at school and at home," this will be the new programme that Mrs Szumilas was talking about - that is, of course, when this programme will be implemented, the funds from the programme to date will be shifted to the programme currently in operation. Mrs Zofia Czernow asked whether the government would take care of salaries in social services homes. I would like to remind you that according to the Act on Social Assistance in the framework of local government reform long ago, in 1999, all social assistance houses were transferred from the competence of voivodships to district governments, are the property and task of district governments. As part of the government, we still have subsidies to support those people who were adopted on an old basis before 1998. However, the number of these people is, of course, constantly decreasing. In 1999 it was 72,627 people, this year there are only 27,716 people. 35% the previous amount was left in social services homes and the subsidy is smaller because there are fewer people. Within the framework of this grant, of course, local authorities can allocate some of the funds for remuneration. As regards the reduction of funding for the 500+ programme in 2019, this is obviously due to the change in the situation we see. Above all, wage increases result in fewer families applying for 500+. We also have a clear fall in unemployment, so in fact people who are not working and whose situation has been more difficult are getting less and less. On the other hand, as in previous years, there is also a provision for educational benefits in 2019 and, of course, if more resources were needed, it is possible to speak to the Minister of Finance and mobilise additional appropriations from the budgetary reserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u314	Thank you very much. I invite the representatives of the Ministry now. We begin with the Secretary of State, Mr Leszek Skiba. You're welcome. There isn't. Then you're... There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a question about increases - increases in the government sector, in the public sector, increases in the budgetary sphere. It is worth remembering that the increase rate for 2019 was planned at 2.3% in order to ensure a real level of income. But that's not all. It is not only that the expenditure from the state budget for the increase is 2.4% billion PLN, which is equivalent to an increase of 2.3%, is also so that in the expenditure of the state budget a 5% increase in teachers' income is guaranteed. Of course, there was talk here, Minister Kozłowski spoke about the increase in expenditure resulting from the programme of modernization of the police. We also have an increase in the salaries of jurors, judges, prosecutors, asses, employees of the Attorney General - 7%. So that the total amount guaranteed in the budget for increases exceeds PLN 5 billion. If we look more broadly, if we look not only at 2019 but also at 2018, the total salary fund increased by more than 8%, so by much more than in the years 2010 and 2015. There was also a question about the Mother 4+ program. What amount is guaranteed, secured for this purpose? The programme will be implemented from 1 January 2019. The project includes funds for implementation, there is money in the budget. The total guaranteed amount for this programme amounts to about PLN 1 billion. And the last question in this area related to macroeconomics - the question about investment. The professor asked about the level of investment. We assume - and this is in line with what market analysts, financial institutions, expert institutions estimate - what potential investment growth can be - not only in the public sector but also in the private sector. The macroeconomic assumption for this budget is that this increase will be 8.4% , i.e. much more than the growth rate of gross domestic product. So we see - and this is not only the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, not only of the government, but also of private institutions - that we are dealing with a wave of investment growth. We know that these readings may be weaker in individual quarters, but for example the forecast for 2018 is 9.1. At the same time, this increase in investment results firstly from the fact that we are experiencing an acceleration of European spending. Expenditure across the public sector in 2019 is likely to amount to 4.6% GDP, i.e. public investment, will be 4.6% in 2019 GDP, as it was in 2018. Of course, this is worth remembering, and of course it is a higher indicator than in 2015. So that investments are an important driver of Polish economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u316	Thank you. I invite Secretary Philip the Dawn. You're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Undersecretary.]] Undersecretary? I'm sorry, actually, but it's written in such small letters and circled... Excuse me. I'd like to invite you undersecretary of the state of Filip Świtała.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer some of the tax questions that have been asked in this debate. I will start by asking you about the extension of the VAT rates for 2019. These stakes will remain. I must say that this is primarily due to budgetary considerations. We have an increase of about PLN 8 billion. And yet there are the needs of this budget, and you are calling for these needs to be met. It will be possible to return to rates by 1% at the right time lower when the state of public finances allows for this. I would also like to point out that the money that we have additionally in the budget is largely redistributed. I mean, we pass them on, for example. for the 500+ programme, which costs several times more than twice as much as the 8 billion that we have in that the VAT rates are higher. At the same time, we have significantly reduced VAT fraud. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz asked about the seal. We're really sealing, we've really done a lot about this. First of all, it's not like we're continuing the JPK program. We changed his philosophy because we changed this program from the control file. He comes to the company controlling, puts a flash drive into the company's computer, collects data, analyzes it on his computer - this is the original idea of the JPK, which the OECD invented in 2005 and was introduced in 2015. What we did was to replace this philosophy with reporting sales and purchases. This allows us to significantly reduce VAT fraud. We've introduced STIR. In this Chamber, you had doubts about the introduction of the electronic system of the clearing house, and we see how the carousels work and we are able to trace them precisely. We will combine this with the recently introduced split, i.e. split payment. These are the things that really lead to us sealing the system. We calculated that from the sealing of the tax system we have in 2017, if I remember correctly, about 10.8 billion PLN. And that's not the growth that we have because it's economic growth. This is already taking into account the effects of economic growth. There was also a question about what we are really doing - asked by Mr Tadeusz Cymanski - to counteract aggressive optimization and whether it hits entrepreneurs. No, ladies and gentlemen, this doesn't hit businessmen. If someone wants to conduct an economic activity in Poland, it can be carried out, there are no additional obligations that we impose on those who carry out aggressive optimization. It is also so that our actions are really directed at those who want to avoid taxation. For example, the STIR system is a system that works in the background, it does not impose any obligations on entrepreneurs. They don't even know that he exists, but they're protected by him, because this system makes the level playing field increase, increasing fair competition on the market. That means we eliminate those who lower prices because they don't pay VAT. There was also a question about the copper tax. It was asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow. It is so that we actually have PLN 1.4 billion included in this draft budget of copper tax. This does not mean, however, that we are not analysing the situation related to copper tax. Right now, we're thinking about it. I must also say that this tax takes account of the situation of extractors, because it is dependent on copper prices. If copper prices fall, then tax falls as well. Please note that this tax falls from year to year. Now we have 1,400 million, and last year I think there were about 1,600 million proceeds from this tax. [[But when will he be lifted?]] Like I said, that's the question we're analyzing. As regards the question - Mr Stanisław Lamczyk asked it - regarding VAT refunds, VAT refunds in the economy currently last an average of 40 days. As far as subcontractors in the construction industry are concerned, it is about 15 days. We're really trying to get these phrases done as soon as possible. The next question was about solidarity tax - that as an entrepreneur who conducts business as an individual person wants to invest, he cannot invest, because there is this tax. If someone invests, they pay the cost and their income falls. If his income drops, he's got less tax. Therefore, it is not so that this tax is anti-investment. I'd like to say more... This may not be really my subject, but Marcin Porzucek mentioned the limits on research and development and asked what we were doing on the subject. For example, this year we have prepared a proposal for a change which will introduce into the Polish IP Box system, i.e. a solution that gives a very favourable interest rate, 5%, for the results of research and development work, for patents, for utility designs, for the rights to computer programs. [[Taxation.]] This, we hope, will increase investment in this sector, let's say, intellectual property. I think I've answered everything. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u318	Thank you, Minister. I invite you to the floor of the Undersecretary of State of Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński, also from the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to answer the rest of the questions that haven't been answered so far. A few questions on the activities of other ministers and a few questions on the activities of the Minister of Finance. The question was to secure funds for the census. In the budget reserve under item 66. for 2019 the amount of PLN 80 million is secured for preparatory work for the general real census in 2020 and the general census in 2021. These tasks will include the preparation of inventory operations, preparation of pilot studies, modernisation of infrastructure, design-programming work, etc. The question was why the reserve of 26th position is lower by 97 million PLN than in 2018. This is a reserve at the disposal of the Minister of National Education. This is due to the fact that, according to the 2019 timetable, a grant for the purchase of free textbooks, educational materials and training materials will only receive grades III and VI of the primary school, while in 2018 this grant received three primary school classes according to the timetable, i.e. II, V and VIII. In addition, this year there will be no grant for materials or for textbooks as well as middle school. So that is the reason why the number of these measures is falling, while as far as the active table mentioned by the Member concerned is concerned, the funds for the "Active array" remain at the same level, i.e. 70 million PLN. As for next year's elections, the question has also been asked what funds are secured for next year's elections, i.e. elections to the Sejm and the Senate, to the European Parliament, to the national referendum, as well as for complementary local elections and supplementary elections to the Senate - there is a total of 662 930 000 in the special reserve. zł, position 17. Question about cultural expenditure and the protection of national heritage. The question was whether there was an increase in spending on this sphere. Yeah, right here in section 24, i.e. The culture and protection of national heritage, these measures increase by more than PLN 517 million compared to 2018. The budget of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage secures the means for the planned completion of the multi-annual programme of the Józef Piłsudski Museum in Sulejówek, as well as the continuation of the construction of the Polish History Museum in Warsaw. And the last questions are already directly to the Minister of Finance, questions about, above all, debt and debt-to-GDP trends. This is a constant downward trend, i.e. on the EU methodology, 2017 ended with a debt-to-GDP ratio of 50.7% which is expected to fall to 48.9% in 2019. According to the debt management strategy, this relationship is expected to fall to 43.4% in 2022. Current level 50.7% That's 10. the lowest result across the European Union, as Eurostat data shows that for the European Union as much as 81.6% of public debt GDP, while for the euro area even more, because 86.7% GDP. So that, for example, the Maastricht criterion, i.e. 60% debt to GDP, we are one of only 13 Member States of the European Union that meet this criterion. It is not met by Germany, the United Kingdom or France, where this level exceeds 60%. In France this is 96.8% in Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, Italy, GDP. Another question concerned the balance of Poland's accounts with the European Union, whether we are a net beneficiary. Yeah, we're still a net beneficiary. For 2017, this positive balance amounted to around EUR 7.5 million. After 8 months 2018, this is a positive balance, which is the difference between what we pay, a contribution to the Union and what we receive both under the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds and other financial mechanisms of the European Union, the balance after 8 months was EUR 6.6 billion and we expect it to amount to almost EUR 10 billion at the end of 2018, while for 2019 we predict that it will be over EUR 10 billion, i.e. approximately PLN 49 billion, PLN 48 800 million. The last question concerned increases for the National Tax Administration, tax offices. Here in 2019, according to the decision already taken this year on equalisation of remuneration, the amount of PLN 93 million was allocated, apart from the fact that also increases, that the National Tax Administration will also cover those increases that will cover the entire budget sphere, i.e. 2,3% increase of the base amount, i.e. it will amount to more than PLN 104 million. I think that's about all the questions we've been able to answer. I would like to thank you very much for this debate and at the same time declare that if any questions are not answered, they will be given in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u320	Thank you very much. In view of the exhaustion of the list of people who wanted to speak in this section, the discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft budget law for 2019 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 44 hours 20 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. The European Union Commission submitted an additional report to the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2018, i.e. during the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union, print No 2730-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including a vote on this draft resolution. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Code of Offences Act and certain other laws, - about farmers' cooperatives. These are printers 2889 and 2890 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The formal proposal is submitted by Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking for a break, like, 30 minutes. We have waited many times in this Chamber for Mr Kaczyński to start the procession. We are pleased that Mr Kaczyński is already in good shape, driving, running an election campaign. At the moment, he is running an election campaign in TVP's Guest News program. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] If the Member is healthy, it is known that his primary duty is to participate in the deliberations and to vote. Therefore, please... [[Punish me.]] Instead of telling the dark people that Morawiecki's tapes is a provocation, that it is true that Morawiecki, but it is not Morawiecki's, came and fulfilled his duties as Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u322	There you go. At the same time, I inform you and the High House that this proposal, this vote, does not meet the formal requirements. It's about art. Paragraph 184. 2. Formal requests, I remind you, may only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws. High Seym! On 2 October 2018, the Sejm sent a draft law amending the Education Law and the Law on the Education System and other laws to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. An additional request was submitted to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The Sejm Bureau gave a positive opinion on this proposal. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal was accepted by the Sejm Bureau. I can't hear you objecting. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a deadline for the committees to submit a report by 31 October 2018. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 38. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2019. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the draft budget law for 2019 at first reading in print No 2864 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 194 against - 228, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft budget law of the Sejm shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the draft shall also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which shall forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments together with justification. In accordance with the resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm on the procedure for drawing up the draft budget law for 2019, the Sejm committees shall communicate their positions to the Committee on Public Finance by 2 November 2018 and the Public Finance Commission shall adopt the report by 28 November 2018. We would like to return to the discussion of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans. Third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u323	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans. The Commission examined the amendments at its meeting on 3 October 2018 and recommends that the High House adopt nine amendments, reject 13 amendments and adopt a bill to increase the financial security of Poles by providing additional savings... [[But it's a committee report.]] ...with solidarity between employees, employers and the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u324	Thank you, sir. The Commission proposes that the project be adopted, as we have heard. It's printing number 2824. The amendments included in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) The applicant shall propose the new wording of point 12 of point 1. a. The Commission, I remind you, calls for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 415, 10 against, with three abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 The applicants propose a new wording of point 18. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: It does not work...]] Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2, 3 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 423 voted, no one was against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 7 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. Amendments 8, 10 and 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 6, 7 and 9 futile. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, From the beginning we say one thing: the state, the employer, and certainly not trade unions, have nothing to do with what we invest our own, saved money in. From the beginning, we say we will support this bill, but under a few conditions. One of them says that either each employee has the right to decide for himself what his money will be invested in, or the representation actually chosen from the entire group of employees who will agree these issues with the employer. You want to turn this issue over to trade unions because you're gonna have a pretty big influence on them and you're gonna have an influence on them. together on state employers, on State Treasury companies and government, so that employees' capital plans are invested in investments not economically, but politically, such as the Central Communication Port, which is known to be large, but when it is profitable - not necessarily. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not authorized to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u326	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your fellow Member, who spoke before me! It's not supposed to be big, it's supposed to be long, like it already is. But the facts are this. This amendment must, unfortunately, be rejected for very simple reasons. Firstly, it was agreed and agreed with the social side. Do we want to fight the social side right now? Secondly, why should an entrepreneur charge another cost to organise elections, organise a way of identifying the representation of a crew if there are trade unions? That's what these relationships are for, to represent, period. [[Applause]] [[Excellent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u328	Thank you. Member Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice has the floor. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, correction. I was mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u329	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u330	Mr Tadeusz Cymanski has a voice, this is a man. There you go. [[Tadeusz, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Among the modern, developed countries, the countries we yearn for, in Europe and in the world, Poland is the country where the union belongs to the lowest. And trade unions are still officially and quietly sequestered, restricted and destroyed. That's the truth. The question is simple: Does this amendment which my club wants to reject strengthens or weakens the position of trade unions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u332	Thank you very much. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, correction.]] No, the Member was not quoted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Was.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of amendments 5, 8. 10 and 11, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 170 votes against - 248 abstentions 3. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 7 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. Amendments 7 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club. [[There isn't.]] The question is asked by Mrs Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u333	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The wolves threw themselves at the platform. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That means it's a lot of money, that's right. Why do the unions want to reach out to this? In fact, he wants the government to use trade unions to get it. It's clear. The issue concerns investments of several billion zlotys per year. And you know it. It will ultimately be more or less such amounts, which is why it is so important. That is not enough, Mr President, that amendment was reported by the social side during the committee work as necessary for implementation. Secondly, the constitutionality of the records you have entered is being undermined. The Constitutional Tribunal made it clear that the distinction between the role of those employers for whom trade unions function and those for whom they do not function is not in line with the Constitution. That's exactly what you guys put in here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u334	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 6, 7 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. One Member abstained in favour of 173, against 256. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 12th amendment to the article. 28 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. There was a vote in favour of 421 against - 3 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 49 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 427, no one voted against, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 67 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 428 voted in favour, no one voted against, no two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 106. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u335	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Further amendments will concern the reduction of the horrendously high penalties that you have introduced in this law. You're making a completely ridiculous law. Please note that the penalties imposed on the employer for failing to comply with certain formalities, not signing a contract, the incorrect keeping of documents for employee capital plans is up to PLN 1 million. In comparison, the Labour Code provides for a penalty of up to 30,000 for lack of employee documentation. PLN and for not paying ZUS contributions according to the Social Insurance Act - only 5 thousand. zł. You create a complete absurdity that is inadequate to the existing law. That's not our consent either. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u336	Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u337	Mr. Marshal! However, it is with great regret that I must say that my previous colleague simply does not read exactly what is going on and then misleads everyone. [[Voice from the room: As usual.]] The truth is, this whole bill is obviously in the trash. Now that it's going to be, it can't be that the entrepreneur is forced to work unfairly when it comes to economics. He will have a choice: or pay e.g. 100,000. Fines, as you propose, or save 1.5 million, as you can see from the economic account. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Let's not really put an entrepreneur in a position to choose between P.O. and P.S. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And lead us not into temptation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u338	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 176, against 253, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 107 applicants propose to add a new wording to the part of the common calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u339	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The fact that Mr Kukiz15 treats every hard worker in Poland as a potential criminal is already the problem of the Kukiz club15. Modern has good, positive thinking and wants to partner with Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u340	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 196 voted against - 231, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 108. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. [[Voice from the room: I don't want to.]] Who doesn't? [[Pass.]] [[They have no support.]] [[He drove her away.]] You're retreating. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 192 voted against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 124 of the draft law amending the Act on Individual Pension Accounts and Individual Pension Insurance Accounts, the applicant proposes a new wording of the introduction into the calculation in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 425, against - 2, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 129 of the draft law containing amendments to the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, the applicant proposes to add point 4 in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 11. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 430 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 134 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 21. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 197, against - 233, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 134 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favor of... [[It's unobtrusive.]] Is there a question in the secretary's office? There's a question. Mr Blazej Parda, Modern Club, question. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Oh, sorry, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Share.]] [[But it's the same thing, Mr. Marshal.]] This is a great, very good bill, extremely necessary and extremely important for insurance and investment funds, because they will always make money. For employees and employers, it's really a paratax that they say you can get something back from someday, unless there's a day when the government thinks otherwise. Poles, be careful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u342	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska? We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. One Member abstained in the vote in 197, against - 232. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 137. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Jakubiak... [[I'm from Kukiz, 15 years old.]] ...Kukiz Club15. [[Marcus, ask me where Tyka is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u343	Mr. Marshal of Law and Justice! High Izbo! [[Law and Justice.]] Law and Justice, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not funny, because I'm gonna say that everyone who's watching us should know that there are three people in this bill: the first person is an employee who's gonna lay off, an employer who's gonna beat him up and there's still a Saint. The title of Nicholas is the Polish state, which promised that the other would add so much to it. The question is, where's he gonna get it? Well, he's gonna take it from the same salary, only on the payroll of the Labor Fund. [[It's called a capital circuit.]] I just wanted to say thank you very much for giving, but I just want you to give it away and not keep giving it away from your employers. Secondly, I would like to say that my dream is to pay gross wages to employees so that you can have a bold opportunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] explain why you're taking so much money from people. [[Marek, it's Palikot who's gonna pay, not you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u344	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! I don't know what you mean by yourself. I would like to remind you that in Poland the government does not have any own money, unless we count these marginal dividends from companies of the State Treasury, but this really is the radius of the budget of our country, everything else comes from our pockets. But here is a note, because the thing concerns our pockets and our money, but also the money of all employees, e.g. Sejm and Senate offices because the government wants to discriminate against them. Namely, all public administration employees enter the system in 2.5 years, because the government, introducing new costs for private employers, saves itself, given that there is no money in its budget for additional pension contributions. Therefore, the whole state administration will enter the system at the end and workers will gain less. Do not discriminate against public administration workers. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal should know that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u346	I'm just finding out. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But either way, we have to vote this case out. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 22nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 198, against - 231, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Richard Petru... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...near Liberal and Social. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Praise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After you reduced your pensions, reducing your retirement age, and after you jumped the OFE with the Platform, the president of the bank, and now Prime Minister Morawiecki has grown to the need for capital pension plans. All I'm gonna say is that the direction is right... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...but execution is wrong. Firstly, employers may not be able to afford this contribution because they may have financial problems. Secondly, you rule out the poorest people because they will not be able to pay this contribution. And thirdly, what could happen? There's no retirement product, which means there's no system that says you have to buy out your pension. Do you know what that's like? One day a government like this will come and there will be Jacek Rostowski again, he'll come up with an idea and he'll say yes... [[Voice from the room: No, we'll try.]] ...listen, instead of saving that money for retirement, pay it off when you're 40, 50, 55 years old before the election. [[Suit yourself.]] [[Just like it is in Norway.]] And that's the threat you could have created, that is, introducing a life pension. In conclusion, I will abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Very.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u348	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was practically stifled because, in fact, I would have to say that for the first time in my life, Mr Petru is somewhat right. [[Applause]] But the problem is something else, and I've already told you about it from that platform. If there is something that is Mr Morawiecki's idea, and Mr Petru supports it - really be careful, really be careful. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] In fact, this whole bill is going to increase labour costs to tax all of you. And if you think that money's private because it's in the bill, I'll tell you that we can change it. Then it may be different at any time. [[It's Kukiz.15 that can change, okay?]] This bill really isn't good. This bill doesn't secure that money to be yours. This bill, as Mr Jakubiak said, is to pull it out of your pocket to give you out of your pocket, and to thank you for giving it to you. Think about what we're voting on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Goodbye. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 3% support.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u350	Thank you. Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u351	Dear Marshal, I'd like you to find out what we're voting on right now. High Izbo! Dear Government! If today you are acting like a salesman and you are boasting that this is a great, safe financial product for Poles, then why do you not want to give the employees of the budget sphere this great product? You're just putting on a tax. You don't have any money. You need money to invest. [[Voice from the room: We don't have any money.]] You don't have any money. The government doesn't have... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Tarczynski, you... [[There's no money, and there won't be.]] You need an extra tax, you need money to invest. [[Voice from the room: Money is gone.]] What do you want to do with them? Central airport? And the budget doesn't say you're giving such a packaged product... [[Voice from the room: There is no and there will be no.]] ...and increases only at inflation level. The Civic Platform Club will not vote for this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u352	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u353	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Someone in the room asked before: Is this a good bill or a bad one? [[Can I?]] If you'd accepted our amendments, it would have been good. [[Applause]] But you rejected them, so she's angry. It's simple. When the government started working on this bill, I thought to myself: Wow, PiS for the first time thought about the future of our citizens. But when I saw the project, I realized what was really going on. You don't have the money for the investments he promised... [[There's no money, and there won't be.]] ... Prime Minister Morawiecki in the plan of his development, reconstruction of Poland. You were supposed to have an investment rate of 25%. You're under 18. And this budget, from the money drawn out of the pockets of Poles, you just want to repair your investment budget. By what? By the institution n. TFI PRR. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u354	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2824 as a whole, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 229 voted against - 197, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm passed the Act on Employee Capital Plans. We are returning to the discussion of item 33 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on the circles of rural hostess. The additional report shall be in print No 2891-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Nolas to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u355	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I am pleased to submit an additional report on the government draft law on the circles of rural hostess, print No 2856. Seym at 69. On 3 October, he re-directed the draft law in print No 2891 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development discussed 13 amendments at its meeting on 4 October. Six amendments were accepted by the committee, seven amendments were rejected by the committee. So, in conclusion, on behalf of the committee, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt the committee's report and vote on all the amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u356	Thank you. I'm reminding you, it's printing number 2891. The amendments tabled in the report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. The applicants shall propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 5. Amendments 4 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. I remind you, the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 4 and 10, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 1, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 171 votes against - 251, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. Amendments 5, 7, 9 and 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to this project, we read that it is necessary to give legal personality to the rural housewives' collectives. What is legal personality? Legal personality is independence in decision-making, independence. In the meantime, in this act you propose - saying that it is a depoliticisation of the circles of rural hostess - a change of dependency: from the subordinates of agricultural circles to the subsidiary of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In our opinion, this is the politicisation of the circles of rural hostesses, or actually the supervision of the circles of rural hostesses. The intention of all these amendments that we have tabled is to give the Circles of Rural Housewives true independence. Well, we want the authority in charge to be here, or the mayor of the competent municipality. This is better than supervising the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, because each municipality is naturally adapted to support the local community. There, in direct elections, the councillors in the localities were elected, and there finally there were the chiefs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there should also be a circle of country hostesses. Why do you want to politicize the activities of the village housewives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u358	Thank you. The Minister wants an answer. Minister of Agriculture Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Member clearly confuses the process of registering in the National Register of Rural Housewives with some kind of subsidiary. I don't know if this is any experience from the activities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the functioning of PSL politicians there? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The point is that when legal personality is given to the rural hostel's collectives, it is entered in the register, which will be kept by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, an institution which has an office in each district, where you can carry out this registration very quickly. We also help the village hostels by presenting a model statute, which will also be a simple help in registering. On the other hand, the implementation of this somewhat reprehensible proposal for the mayor or the mayor to register next to the housewives would require what the Member has not seen, what is not in the amendments that have been tabled, the amendment of the law on local government, the conduct of the consultation process in committee between the government and the local government and the allocation of adequate resources to carry out this action by local authorities. The fact that the registration will be conducted by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will only facilitate and speed up the process of recording wheels, giving them legal grounds for being able to conduct business so that they can benefit from all forms of EU aid from local action groups, as well as from local government, which has so far not been able to pass on funds without legal personality, which has caused huge problems to accountants or treasurers in local governments. We solve this problem and the most active part of the human race in the country of women will have a simple and easy way to increase their activity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u360	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of amendments 3, 5, 7, 9 and 12, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 170, against 230, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 10 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 402, against - 16, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 12 applicants propose to give a different wording to the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 424 voted, no one voted against, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 26 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6 and 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 426 voted in favour, no one voted against, no five abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 35 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Ewa Lieder, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u361	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! Is it true that the amendments to this law will involve changes to the Social Fund Act? If so, with what? So are you gonna take 40% of the funding from the Sołec funds that are earmarked for small local investments, and hand the same money over to the village housewives' collectives? Is it just such a simple pre-election populist transfer of the same money? I would very much ask you to dispel these doubts, because various self-government portals write about it. [[German, right?]] I'm really looking forward to your answer, ladies and gentlemen. People are very worried.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u362	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski will address your doubts. [[Doubts from the German portals.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer to the Member who asks if this is true. No, that's not true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u364	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 194 against - 232, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Members shall ask. Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, one member of the PiS said that the rural hostels' circles are politicised today, and their dependence on the National Union of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations is simply pathology. [[Right.]] Meanwhile, this project causes women, rural hostels' circles to be subject to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. They will be supervised by the President, Vice-Presidents, District Office Directors and Provincial Coordinators. I assure you that the circles of rural hostels operating since the 19th century have survived and wars, and the people's power... [[And the platform.]] [[Voice from the room: and ZSL too.]] ...and they won't let anyone politicize them. They work in communes, where power is left to the law, they are independent. Don't insult the village housewives' circles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u366	Mirosław Maliszewski, PSL-UED, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats has the floor. [[Former ZSL.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u367	Minister Ardanowski was wrong to say that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will only keep a register. Well, she's gonna be in charge, which means she's gonna decide if the village hostess is gonna be able to function or whether she meets the requirements and expectations, and she's gonna be able to withdraw the registration. But anyway, I'm surprised to know that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture can handle this, because today we see that this political agency can't handle the use of the Rural Development Programme, only a little more than 20% of the RDP budget is contracted. So why would the Minister want to add further responsibilities to this already failing agency, and not allow the circles of rural hostess to be registered in the municipal offices? That's one thing. Secondly, why did you, since the palaces were so fond of the hostels' circles, reject the previous amendment which guaranteed the groups of rural hostesses, to everyone, every year 6,000. zł from the operating budget? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And thirdly, it is a pity that your love for women in the country and for Polish agriculture is only the result of the upcoming elections, and it was not in previous years. [[Don't insult me because I love my wife every day.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u368	Mr Stępień, President of the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Village Housewife Wheels Act came in within 3 days. She doesn't even have a vacathio legis. And my question: What political interest was accompanied by this law that you decided to introduce it without vacathio legis? I would like to ask the Minister what conditions, what important conditions for the Polish people caused, that right now, you want to implement this law immediately. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u370	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Catholic social science - one of its principles is subsidiarity, i.e. The state goes where the local communities cannot operate, where people can't, they can't organize, they can't carry out certain activities, they can't get to a higher level. And this law, this amendment in this connection is not in the spirit of Catholic social science, because it is not so that the circles of rural housewives must now be taken into the register of the central state institution. In general, what is needed in the countryside, including among the rural hostels' circles, is rather stimulating and cooperating with them... [[You're wrong, Robert.]] ...to acquire competence for self-organization, for this. Supported by the agency - yes, but not create central bureaucratic registers, subordinate to central institutions. That's the way to go. So that I appeal to you to take care of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just think about it. [[Robert, I'll explain later.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u372	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All these questions have already been answered both in the readings in the Chamber and in the committee, but it is probably necessary to say it briefly again. The issue of the subordinates of the rural housewives to the agricultural rings, the National Association of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations was introduced by the Act of October 1982 during the martial law. This organization, agricultural circles, as the only one of the then active organizations, of the then trade unions, was accepted by WRON, General Jaruzelski and those who introduced martial law. This organization has gained a dominant position for many years, only the reactivation of solidarity broke the monopoly that agricultural circles had in the rural environment. And this organization has been subjected to the circles of country hostesses. I would wonder if, if we could talk about politicisation, this period does not put the most shadow on the activities of the rural hostels under this organisation. Nor is it any reason to boast that the head of this organization has been euphemistically named Władysław S. and in Białołęka is awaiting trial. There was a group who wanted to save the remains of the authority and honor of agricultural circles, i.e. The Federation of Regional Farmers' Unions, Circles and Agricultural Organisations, whose representatives were at the committee meeting yesterday and very strongly support this law and the registration of the circles of rural hostess. Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz talks about some kind of subordinate relationship to the regional coordinators. I'd ask you to read the bill. The Act states that the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which carries out the registration of the rings of housewives, may, in order to improve the registration process, authorise the head of the county office of the Agency to carry out the registration process on his behalf. Also at the level of the county office, a special proxy may be created to help those wheels that wish to register. And what do you see here as a subsidiary? I would also like to stress very strongly that there is no regional representative in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I would ask the Member to read it. It is possible for the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises to be set up a representative of the voivodship who will help the rural housewives to develop their activities, to understand what means they can use, what forms of support, whether within local action groups, or from cohesion policy funds, or from other sources of support. Is this a subsidiary, or is this the principle of subsidiarity, support for the development of activities, advocated by Mr Winnicki? I think it's the other one. And, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry - the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture can handle this. This is not an undertaking that goes beyond the organisational capacity of this institution. That is why I am absolutely convinced that this is a law that should have been introduced a long time ago, and those who are criticizing it now have rather a kind of shame that they didn't do it themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u374	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 2891, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - 14, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the wheels of the country housewives. We proceed to the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Second reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2018 (the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union) (prints Nos 2730 and 2730-A) - voting. I ask Mr Jan Dziedziczak to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on European Union Affairs requests that the amendment be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u376	Let me remind you, it's a 2730 print. I will put the tabled amendment to the vote first. The amendment proposes that the Sejm reject the information of the Council of Ministers. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 189 voted against - 231, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We evaluate the first half of the work of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. Today we know that at a dry, exquisite dinner he convinced the President of Kaczyński that he would do Poland's interests in the European Union well. First summary - initiating a rule of law infringement procedure, public hearing. Second success - lost posted workers. Third success - the budget of the European Union by PLN 100 billion less for Poland, 25% less money for cohesion policy and for the common agricultural policy. Disaster and loneliness - these are the effects of the government's work and work of Mateusz Morawiecki within the European Union. We do not have a coalition for cohesion policy, we do not have partners with whom we can pursue common interests and seek them, there will be no resources for culture, there will be no [[♪ The bell ♪]] measures for rolling stock and a number of other areas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u378	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 2730, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 252 against - 173, with six abstentions. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2018 (the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Code of Offences and certain other laws (Prints No 2867 and 2889). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Code of Offences and certain other laws, the printing of Seym No 2867. At yesterday's committee meeting, the committee considered four amendments, of which amendments 1 and 4 are substantive amendments and amendments 2 and 3. - legislative. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt these four amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u380	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 10a § 1 The Senate's Code of Misdemeanors proposes to replace the words with other acts. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. The vote was 2 against - 425, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 20f of the Senate Police Act proposes among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 editing change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The opposition was 426, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. § 97 § 1 of the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters The Senate proposes an editorial amendment in the joint section. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 1 voted in favour, against - 428, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The 7th Law amending the Senate proposes to delete the words "in the wording of this Act'. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 428 and 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Farmers' Cooperatives (Prints No 2866 and 2890). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Farmers' Cooperatives Act, print No 2866. The Committee on Agriculture yesterday considered the Senate resolution and recommended that the High House adopt six amendments to the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u382	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (2) of the Senate Law proposes to extend the catalogue of non-farmers who may join farmers' cooperatives. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Zbyszek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u383	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I must say, I was very happy to enter this bleacher, [[Joy in the Chamber]] because the Senate has adopted precisely, precisely, the amendment of the Civic Platform which it tabled in committee. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Zbyszek!]] Hence, it is a big tribute that these farmers will improve and that they will be able to benefit from the fact that they will be members of the cooperative, farmers who are not farmers who provide services that will improve this aspect of the operation of farmers' cooperatives. Respecting the time, Mr. Marshal, I'll say that - although I don't have much time - that would be all I have to say at this stage. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Bravo, Zbyszek, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u384	Okay, then we're all happy. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 5, Art. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 2 point 4 of the Act, as well as Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 49a of the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. Amendments 4 and 5 align with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Mr Aichler is asking a question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u385	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, here at this point, I would ask my fellow Members from my club to, contrary to my previous recommendations, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Relax, they voted against rejection because it doesn't really hurt or help here. [[Joy in the hall, applause, bell]] These are neutral corrections and you can do it. However, I would like to say one thing that this law will not enter into force, because so-called. admission to a member, [[Joy in the Chamber]] which takes place in cooperatives, causes that a legal person cannot be a member. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Zbyszek, come on.]] He's not even, he's unfair, he's unconstitutional. And the other thing. What I'm saying is that this bill won't come into force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For one reason, you're disfellowshipping...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u386	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u387	...membership [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] in a resource fund, broken down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u388	Thank you, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u389	It automatically eliminates this bill in life. That's why... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bravo, Zbyszek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u390	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please focus on the votes. Who among you is against Amendments 2, 4 and 5, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 30 votes against - 397. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 of the Senate Act proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 380 Members voted. The absolute majority is 191. 61 votes against 318 and 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 26 The Senate proposes that Article. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2019. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the amendment is absolutely deliberate, acceptable. And I, with the permission of Mr. Marshal, would like to inform all of you that when you leave the High House, you will receive this symbolic rose from the Stomach Association as a symbol of victory over the disease, because today is the world day of Stomami. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u392	You don't need a comment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was seven, against 411, with one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. That's where we've exhausted the 69th agenda. meetings of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 13 hours 21 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Margaret Płępek will make her first statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government has already adopted a preliminary draft budget law for 2019. Today was the first reading of the government draft of this law. I wanted to state that it is necessary to introduce in regional terms an expenditure budget of PLN 137 million for the demolishing of Lake Żywiecki. This is a priority issue for the inhabitants of Lives and Żywiecczyn. Every year, since I am an MEP, I have tabled amendments on this issue, but they are rejected, in this term - even by the votes of PiS Members from my region. Thanks to taking up the topic by the water management board a few years ago, and now thanks to the actions continued by the Polish State Waters farm, procedures are underway to carry out this huge project. For a long time the City Hall in Żywiec has issued environmental decisions. I hope that they will be published soon. Without funding from the state budget, this task cannot be achieved. It is a priority not only because of flood protection, but also because of the need to develop tourism in the region of ̄ywiecczyn. The Żywiec lost more importance as an industrial city. Furry, tannery, paper mills have fallen. However, it has an amazing tourist potential associated with an excellent location - in the mountains, by the lake - with rich landscape and natural values. I call for this task to be included in the state budget, because the local governments themselves will not be able to deal with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u394	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz. [[Game in the O.R.]] States in the Chamber who are not interested in statements, I ask you very much to be silent and respectful of colleagues who make statements. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u395	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Messengers and Members! I am very upset by the last week's statements by the Law and Justice spokesperson, the insinuations of the most resolute and perhaps some of the last independent journalists in our country who accuse them of acting in favour of foreign countries, for other political forces, other than ruling forces. You obviously don't understand what journalistic independence is all about. Throwing invectives at TVN journalists, insulting and speaking journalists of portals such as Onet - I remind you: the biggest and most popular portal in our country - you show that you want it to be as you do with Polish Television. This is a scandal that you're doing for 1,800 million zlotys of taxpayers' money. There you addicted journalists to the extent that members of their families, wives, husbands - e.g. TVP Info journalists are starting with your letters in the local elections. Is that the independence you want? Marshal Mazurek also stated, more specifically, that the recent reports of the Onet portal concerning the conversation of the current Prime Minister Morawiecki are old, heated chops. No, it's not. This is the first time that illegal tapes from unknown sources are not being pulled out, as she did today, I remind you, TVP Info TV, where some other tape suddenly appeared. In this case, Onet got the court's first psychic consent and reviewed the court records on which he described the case. You're talking about reheated pork chops, and here I see the damage to the company. [[Applause]] by today's Prime Minister Morawiecki and then the president of BZ WBK Bank. Because what else does the Prime Minister do when he joins the conversation, and I quote, "What's his point? To make money? - asks the future Prime Minister. Then he turns on again and says, "Does he have a foundation, an association or a company? Then he says, "Ask him quietly, I would have tried it so one more time." Five or seven, or we're gonna give him a hundred for some tests. Or something. What does Prime Minister Morawiecki say? About the remuneration of another person, the policy of BZ WBK bank's money, i.e. suggests action against the damage of the company, and for that is the section of the Penal Code in Polish law. And this should be a merit, not only a sting at independent media by the spokesperson of the ruling party, not only the invectives thrown at these media by the head of the ruling party, the ruling party club, but also the destruction of public media and the doing so for the taxpayer's money. This is a real scam. And also the real scam is that Prime Minister Morawiecki committed a violation of the law a few years ago. I'm asking the Minister of Justice right now, where his actions are. Who's really playing these videos today? Is this him, running the D.A.'s office and deciding what the D.A.'s office is going to do and what it isn't? Isn't he the person who is blackmailing the Prime Minister of the Polish Government today? Remember, you have also heard another part of this speech, where he speaks about wealthy citizens of other countries, and you have heard how he does it. These words came out two days before the Prime Minister's visit to the U.S. Stock Exchange. He landed right in front of the people he described in a very ugly way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u396	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In July this year. At the invitation of the Dutch parliamentarians, I had the honour to attend an international conference set up to prepare the trial of crimes committed by ISIS, also known as Daesh. These crimes, involving terrorism, kidnapping of people, ethnic cleansing or blackmail, have occurred since 2014 in many countries, mostly in Iraq. Iraq itself is already judging the Daesh criminals, i.e. with ISIS, but he is unable to ensure the proper justice system for the reasons that, first of all, these criminals, these criminals, come from many countries, about 5,000. out of them came from Europe. Secondly, crimes have been committed in many countries: Iraq, Syria, and other countries. Thirdly, these are quite complex, monstrous crimes. The situation requires international support. The UN Charter allows the establishment of international tribunals to judge such crimes. We've dealt with such tribunals after the crimes in Rwanda, after the crimes in Bosnia, after the crimes in Cambodia, I'm not talking about Nuremberg anymore. These tribunals played their part either by supporting the local judiciary or by strictly international justice for criminals committing the worst terrorist and other crimes. The conference, which I attended in The Hague, was attended by parliamentarians from the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, including Iraq, France and the European Parliament. We have adopted a declaration in which we call on the UN, especially the Security Council, to set up an appropriate body to judge these crimes. This could be, as I said, an international or mixed Iraqi-international body in which international experts would support Iraqi judges and investigators. We also called on the UN to speed up its work on the implementation of Resolution 2379 of September 2017, which the Security Council is setting up by a group of experts to investigate crimes and collect evidence that would then help the Court. I would like to say that I hope that Poland, as a member of the Security Council at the moment, as well as the Netherlands, will do its utmost to ensure that the Court in one form or another is called, that monstrous terrorist, war, various other crimes, often on religious or ethnic minorities, Christians, Muslims and persons of other orientation, are judged fairly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u398	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On October 2, in Gdynia, after many years, we finally fulfilled the will of adm. fl. Józef Unrug, who wanted to rest with his comrades on Polish soil. Celebrations related to the burial of adm. Unruga and his wife Zofia preceded the Holy Mass, which was presided over by the Bishop of the Polish Army. Józef Gustka was sent to the Navy Church of the Republic of Poland in Gdynia-Oksywiu. The funerals outside the Admiral's family took part, among others.: President Andrzej Duda, Head of National Security Office Paweł Soloch, Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak, Vice President of IPN Krzysztof Szwagrzyk and Deputy Minister of Culture Jarosław Sellin. There were also many Gdynians, although in my opinion not enough for the funeral of this unique hero. I was sad to see a few young people at funerals, whose history teachers, especially those responsible for caring for memory of outstanding Poles, did not bring to the funeral a Polish hero. Many people do not know the history of this unique man who was born on 7 October 1884 and died on 28 February 1973. During World War I he was the commander of the first fleet submarines in Kaiserliche Marine. Then he joined the reborn Polish Navy. From 1925 to 1939 he commanded the fleet and the coastal area. Recalling Józef Unrug, it should be emphasized that in 1939 he was in charge of defending the Polish Coast, and his patriotic attitude deserves admiration and memory. At the end of the war, he was released from German captivity and appointed Deputy Head of the Navy's leadership. Even though he was born in Berlin after the war, he stopped using German. He also rejected a profitable position in the Third Reich's Navy. Many times during the war, he proved that honor was of the highest value to him. As one of his companions recalls, he was a soldier of flesh and blood. Discipline, loyalty, personal dignity weren't idle clichés. He demanded it from us and from himself. I'm proud to have such a countryman. I thank the very present government for remembering those who fought for the freedom of our homeland. I'm glad it's finally Inka and Zagoń, cadmium. Stanisław Mieszkowski, cadmium. Jerzy Staniewicz, Kdr Zbigniew Przybyszewski, and finally Adm. Józef Unrug have had state funerals that they have deserved for years. I believe that the example given by the Polish government, nurturing the memory of our patriots, will be placed under the Polish straits and will be present in many Polish houses. We must remember our history, our well-deserved compatriots, because if we don't remember, who will? Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u400	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Wilk, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The date of the 100th anniversary of Polish independence is approaching, but contrary to what has become widely considered, this is not November 11th. It is necessary to remind at this point and at this point that Poland's independence was announced on 7 October 1918. It is at this point that we need to straighten out and remind what the story looked like. I mean, really. It was on 7 October 1918 that the Regency Council, the then Polish quasi-government, a Polish body made up of Poles in response to President Wilson's declaration and in response to the concept of Germany, in order to create an independent Ukrainian state with Lviv belonging to that country, had just declared independence. It's November 7th, not until a month later... October 7th, I'm sorry. ...that is, on November 10th, when Józef Piłsudski, released from Magdeburg, arrived in Warsaw. It is on 7 October that the 100th anniversary of Polish independence must be celebrated. In fact, on 11 November 1918 nothing unusual happened except to hand over military power to Marshal Piłsudski. He then became the head of state, but in fact he found the existing government, the existing administration. He took power from those who already had this power in Poland. So, ladies and gentlemen, these dates need to be reminded. Therefore, this Sunday, 7 October, at 3 p.m. 11 there will be a march of sovereignty and independence, which refreshes history and reminds us of the merit of the Regency Council in striving for Poland to be independent. On the occasion of the announcement of independence of Poland by the Regency Council on 7 October, there will be a march of sovereignty and independence, which will remind this moment. This story needs to be refreshed all the time, because unfortunately it was lied to by the Sanctuary governments before World War II. It was not until 1937 that 11 November was declared a day of independence, which of course had nothing to do with the facts. Perhaps one day we will live to see the day when this story will be straightened out consistently and only then will we be able to celebrate the date of independence on a proper, really historic day. So I invite everyone to the March of Liberty and Sovereignty this Sunday, October 7th, pl. Three Crosses, march on the occasion of true, proper 100th anniversary of Polish sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-04-sejm-69-3.u402	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. That concludes 69. meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 70th session of the Sejm, convened on 23 and 24 October 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 34]]
