ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u1	Resume session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that at 12.00 the exhibition will be opened by always faithful to Poland, devoted to the history of the Polish Union in Germany. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of draft resolutions on the 50th anniversary of the March events of 1968. I would like to remind you that the draft resolution contained in print No 737 was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn, and the draft resolution contained in print No 738 by a group of senators. The committee's report prepared in accordance with Article. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate are contained in print No 737/738 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the great pleasure to submit, the report of the Legislative Commission in Senate printing No 737/738 S, the report of 7 March on the resolution on the 50th anniversary of the March events of 1968. Two prints have been submitted in relation to the draft resolution. First, the printing was made by Senator Jan Zarin. The Commission discussed this paper on 28 February. The Commission decided after a deep discussion that it would suspend its meeting until 5 March. On 5 March one more printing, 738 printing, a draft submitted by Senator Shark and a group of senators came into the committee. The Commission discussed two prints. There was an in-depth historical discussion on this very event, which was March 1968. The Commission has decided that in a situation where consensus on these two projects cannot be reached... And I would like to remind you that we decided at the very beginning that if we could adopt a resolution at the committee meeting... We wanted it to be on a consensus basis, not on the basis that the majority of the committee is voting on a minority, and we will be editing the text of the resolution in the same way as other resolutions often happen to us, i.e. we will vote on statistics, certain facts or names, whether to put it or not. Well, it happens a lot that we just process like this. But in this case, we have decided that we will do everything we can to bring about consensus on the preparation of a common text. That is why we set up on 5 March an editorial team composed of Senator Żaryna, Senator Sztark, Senator Zdrojewska and Senator Marshal Marek Borowski. This editorial team presented to us at the committee meeting held on 7 March, a text drawn up, except that there were four issues in this text that were not agreed on, on which there was no consensus. While we were still trying to reach this consensus at the committee meeting, we were trying to reach a common position on these four issues, which were precisely the subject of different positions, but this did not work. The proposal was made by Senator Lydia Staroń, who was later supported by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, by Senator Anna Sztark, but in this direction was also directed by Marshal Marek Borowski to wait for the decision of the Sejm and to simply, if there is consensus in the Sejm, adopt this text, which will be adopted by the Sejm. It so happened that the Sejm had just adopted a text which was adopted by a large majority of the Chamber's votes. Only 3 Members, as I recall, were against, 6 abstained But there was an agreement between the various political forces, the different clubs, about just the text that was adopted. At the committee meeting I had just tabled a proposal, an amendment, so that the committee would adopt as a draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the March events exactly the text which the Sejm adopted. We introduced three amendments, such letters, replaced the words with the word "was" or the word "shows" we replaced with "shows." So that these are such very minor amendments, which do not change the substance of this text. The Commission agreed, as I recall, unanimously that the draft resolution, which will be included in the report of the Legislative Commission on March 1968, should be this text. And I'll let me read it now. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 50th anniversary of Marc On the 50th anniversary of the protests of students, students of secondary schools and young workers from March 1968, the Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses respect for all those fighting for freedom and democracy at the time, condemns communist organizers of anti-Semitic persecutions and thanks for solidarity with the persecuted. March 68, which began with protests against the photo taken from the scene of the National Theatre of the grandfathers in the stage of Kazimierz Dejmek's performance, was an opposition to totalitarian dictatorship, censorship and political persecution. The authorities responded to the crackdown on the demonstrators, the start of the wave of anti-Semitic purges and the press chase. Communists used a whole series of lies to make public acts of hatred in the media. There have also been brutal actions by the special services of the police state: arrests, political processes, mass dismissals and university relocations. Senate of the Republic of Poland, remembering the dramatic fate of Polish Jews Forced by the communist authorities to leave Poland in 1968, it strongly objects to any manifestation of anti-Semitism. The Senate of the Republic of Poland solidaritys with Polish citizens, regardless of their nationality and religion, living in Poland and abroad, persecuted by the communist regime and expresses the highest respect for the courage and sacrifice of those who have engaged in the fight against communism. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. That's what this draft resolution looks like. And there's my request to accept it. This is a compromise, this is a consensus. This is about reminding us of these events to talk about them. As for the facts and their detail, it would be difficult in this kind of position, which is a resolution, to undertake historical research. or other actions that need to be detailed. So that this draft resolution is a compromise and consensus. And I ask you to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to authorised representatives of applicants. I would remind you that Senator Jan Żaryn was authorised to print 737 and Senator Grażyna Sztark was authorised to print 738. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u4	Mr. Marshal, of course I will vote in favour, especially since there are such beautiful words about respect and recognition. And I would like to ask the President and perhaps the absent marshal whether, in connection with such words, organizational steps have been taken so that those who are still alive are at hand, invite them to the solemn adoption of this resolution. Especially since it is a common practice in this House that it is generally invited, if possible. In this case, the jury for those who are alive and whom we want to thank and express respect is empty. Is it an oversight, or is it a lack of initiative?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u5	Mr. Senator, that wasn't a question for the applicants. I don't know if you want to... You don't have to answer, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u6	No. This request was not raised at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u7	Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u8	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether this resolution, which you have read and which is proposed, was voted on at the committee meeting and with what result.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u9	Yes, she was voted out, and she was unanimously accepted by the members of the committee... As far as I can remember, one thing at a time. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And it was obviously read.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u10	There are no more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, the rapporteur has made a very good point. It is our duty to celebrate such historical events to remember, but this is not the place to discuss in detail the various historical facts, because this is a debate, a discussion. And in this respect, I would like to speak. We all know that the dramatic events of March 1968 began with protests against a photo taken from the National Theatre in Łódź, in the stage of Kazimierz Dejmek's performance. A spectacle that opposed totalitarian power, dictatorship, censorship and political persecution. And it was this protest that spread all over Poland, and its symbol became the rally of March 8th. Today is exactly the 50th anniversary of the rally at the University of Warsaw in defense of students expelled from the university, a rally brutally pacified by militias and ORMO. In addition to repression against demonstrators, Communist power has begun Not then, because a year before, or even before, a wave of anti-Semitic purges, a press campaign against Polish citizens of Jewish origin. Communists used a whole series of lies to make public the way it should be called "hate spectacles" in the media. There have also been brutal actions by the state's special services, which were police officers, i.e. arrests, political processes, mass dismissals, and especially university relocations. Isn't that right, Mr. Marshal? Today it is certainly known that it was a patriotic protest of young people, including Polish intelligence, who coincided with the purgatory in the apparatus of parties and administration carried out by a group of Polish communists, focused since 1967 on people of Jewish origin. In short: at the time we were dealing with fractal struggles at the summits of communist power, the PZPR. The essence of this was not the fight between Poles and Jewish companions, because the Jews' companions were on both sides. On the occasion of this senate resolution, I would like to draw attention to some historical facts. The first one's like this. This year we may not see it this way, but always in connection with Marc - 68 there is a discussion about Polish wines, about the Polish crimes committed on Jewish neighbours and fellow citizens. What hurts most patriotic Poles is the fact that March - 68 is often replaced by one breath with October - 56, with the Coast - 70, with events in Radom and Ursus in 1976, with August - 80. After all, these historical dates mentioned by me are now symbols of the enslavement of Poland by communists. I do not think they should be combined, involved in this political conflict on the line: Communists Jews. It is enough to mention that, so to speak, the main character of March events, who wants to overthrow Gomulka, is Gen. Nikolaj Tichonowicz Diomko a.k.a. Mieczysław Moczar, who never felt like a Pole, was never a Polish citizen actually. He collaborated with him and benefited from the events of March, General Wojciech Jaruzelski, Minister of National Defence. In this context, I find it very difficult to understand the words of Adam Michnik, who wrote in one of his books published in 1995: 1968 was a horror horror movie. A year later, in an article in the Wyborcza Gazeta, he compared the events of Marc.68 to Katyn. That's ridiculous. Is it just an understudy by the editor of the Gazeta Wyborcza or something else? Let me bring up a few other facts. According to the document of the Ministry of the Interior of 1969 published in fragments by Krzysztof Lesiakowski in the article "Emigration of Jews from Poland from 1968 to 1969," between January 1968 and August 1969 11 thousand 185 people left Poland, including 9,000 570 adults. It's about people of Jewish origin. Among them were 525 executives in ministries, 200 people from publishing and press institutions, 217 academics, 61 people from the committee of Polish Radio and Television, 176 people from the Ministry of Home Affairs, i.e. the former Ministry of Public Security 12 of them were directors of the departments and heads of the voivodship public security offices. 28 people from the judiciary, prosecutors and prisons, 55 people from the Ministry of National Defence and the People's Army of Poland, 998 Rentists, including 204 people claiming pensions for special merits for the Polish People's Republic. Interestingly, if we were to clarify this information, it would turn out that the judge's executioner, Captain Stefan Michnik... His travel passport said he was an employee of the publishing house. And an observation. Out of 1 thousand 300 people then expelled from the People's Polish Army only 181 were Jewish. So it was also a purge in the Polish army. They were then expelled especially from prisons after 1956 and were able to return to the army, but in 1968 they were a huge threat to Jaruzelski and Moscow. The invasion of Czechoslovakia was about to begin, and then such officers might be dangerous. When it comes to everyone who's gone, it's important to say that it was a clerk's elite and scientists, and in a few cases, ex-criminals with a bad reputation for the Homeland Security Office. What am I saying this for? In order to point out that the slogan "Polish Poles" in March 1968 expelled Jews from Poland is simply untrue. It is true that in many Jewish families there were people who stayed on the scene, who did their careers here, could work, could live decently, etc. You may think that the majority left voluntarily, accepting one condition: you will leave Poland We'll take away your citizenship. No one was forced onto the trucks and dragged into the unknown. We all know that they lived in Israel and that they were receiving, and many even today are receiving, pensions and pensions. Moreover, when they left, they received an adequate financial subsidy from the State so that they could sort of make their way to a new place. [[I'm gonna go crazy...]] [[God.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] These are the facts from the book I quoted. Many of us have friends there, and they keep in touch with those who have left. One more remark. Against the background of earlier waves of emigration of Jews from the Polish People's Republic, March emigration was not the largest. In 1956 and 1957, as soon as the possibility of escape from this Stalinist country appeared, more than 36 thousand people of Jewish origin left Poland. I'm talking about this just so that we don't bring Marc back to fight Poles against Jews or I'll tell you in more detail. To Polish anti-Semitism. It should be remembered that Poland was not a free state, that power came from a foreign broadcast and was not elected democratically, and that society was constantly terrorized by security forces. It is enough to mention that in the years 1943 and 1956 I refer only to this period There were tens of thousands of people in prison, murdered, killed for their patriotic attitudes. And how many sufferings did the Church, Primate Wyszyński, bishops and many laymen suffer? Of course, I'm not going to compare... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...this prison ghetto... [[I'm going crazy.]] ...many Poles with expulsion from Poland, which is also suffering and something absolutely undeserved. But all these events should be seen and evaluated on the right scale... [[What a stupid... god...]] [[Exactly.]] ...and today also to study in detail, to develop historically. And always be guided by the truth, not, as is often the case, by political correctness. That's why it's time for our memory and narrative... [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] ...after March 1968, they were presented according to facts and truth. I will conclude with the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, delivered the day before yesterday, during the debate on March 68 and organized by the National Social Movement Against Communism at the University of Warsaw as part of the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of March. The Prime Minister said that March '68 should not be our cause for shame. March '68 for Poland and Poles, those fighting for freedom, should be a cause for pride, not shame. I will say: this break of young Poles fits strongly into this Polish topos of freedom, a break against foreign power imposed on Poles by foreign great power... [[Mr. Senator...]] Last sentence. Without March, it wouldn't be August, 80. Of course...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u12	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Really time's up. I've already extended it by two minutes. [[Voices from the hall: Thank you, thank you.]] [[Can you give me five more minutes...]] [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We say all the time that history is the teacher of life. Thus, sometimes it is worth to undoubtedly look in this historical mirror, this time from the perspective of 50 years, and see those events, also in the edition of 2018, i.e. With the knowledge we have today, and not necessarily just with the knowledge they left with in 1968... I mean, those who had the chance, because of their age today... This confrontation between apparent and increasingly real knowledge will be the motto of my speech. Well, it seems to me that March 68 from this perspective, which we have today, must be seen first and foremost in 2 views. The first installment, of course, which Senator Ryszka has already mentioned, is to include these events in a series of other dates, very glorious, on our way to independence, i.e. 1956, 1966, 1970, 1976, 1978 and at the end of 1980, the explosion of Solidarity. I hope that all these annual dates are for us here, as representatives of Polish intelligence, obvious. [[A millennium...]] Oh, that's right, Mr. Rulewski tells his friends. Yeah, I'll remind you, if there's any trouble with the other dates, that it's... I'm sorry for being mean, but I hope we all know it. Well, this is the series of dates that March puts in the category of our very important historical events, in which we stood for independence. In the case of Marc... 68... [[Oh, Jesus, Mary...]] ...this reality, however, had its own internal logic. First of all, it was a generational event. Young people who were to be educated citizens of the People's Republic of Poland and were to be to a large extent a carrier of a new generation for communist power rebelled against this power, i.e. They rebelled against an older generation so deeply that even their sons acted against... Like Antoni Zambrowski against his father, i.e. one of the prominent officers of Stalin's Poland, Roman Zambrowski. Of course, consider this as an example, a symbol, not just an illustration. Why did this generational rebellion happen? The spark, of course, was the grandfathers, and we will always talk about it, because that is the historical truth. After all, there are more real things out there than just what is in some, important, sparks. Well, I think you need to see. Us, i.e. Poles and the Polish nation, precisely in this historical continuity and in this generation, and these generations turn out to be very important in the context of maintaining a certain cultural code. This cultural code, which was reflected in the behaviours of young people in 1968, is primarily the result of the work of the only free and sovereign Polish intelligence community at that time, I repeat: intelligent, Polish, or Catholic Church, bishops. From a historical point of view, one should know that the Polish intelligence of the Polish People's Republic was the intelligence that contained the Polish cultural code, but it was also the intelligence of Stalinist, or already communist prowess. And there were no structures in the PRL that would not be nomenclature, i.e. from the broadcast. Even the part of Polish intelligence that was the most Polish I say this to be clear The environment of clubs of Catholic intelligence was also established in the structure of the Polish People's Republic's Law. It is not the fault of these people, of course, because they in the vast majority did not want the Polish People's Republic, but this is an objective fact. The only structure which was then free, autonomous, sovereign and therefore spoke with the voice of Polish Sovereign Intelligence was the Polish Episcopate. The program of the Great Nova from 1957 to 1965, culminating in 1966, was an authentic confrontation between Polish independence and Christian independence since 966 and Polish Gomolka. And that, of course, is what we all know today. Well, March -- 68 and that generational thing that was presented at the time -- that's to a large extent. I'm shortening it again, of course, so be aware of it. The effect of the event that took place in June 1966, which for various reasons does not break into our consciousness, even though it is a historical fact, i.e. the Millennium Celebration in Warsaw. In Warsaw, Polish, Christian youth cheers in honor of Primate Stefan Wyszyński, in front of the church of St. Anna, there are huge manifestations. That's the young generation. And these young people, then going towards KC PZPR, are stopped and bruised, beaten by zombies. This is exactly the same reality or atmosphere of positive pro-Polish, pro-freedom and Catholic emotions, it is such a hanging atmosphere of tension in Polish society. The spark of 1968 rediscovered the same emotions to a large extent, reaching the same levels of consciousness. However, why did this not break into Polish society until today, even though there is a discussion on this subject? Because they became the leaders of Marc. Or maybe that's what they're called. And just so we're clear, somebody's not telling me again that I'm saying something other than what I'm saying. Glory be to them. But for what? Well, commandos, that is, to a large extent, the children of party dignitaries, to a large extent or even 100% of members of the ZMS, were people raising each other. What you can see in the documents we can see today in the Institute of National Remembrance, but not in the way we as Polish intelligence are still leading today, that is, who was right, Piłsudski or Dmowski... I assure you that this was not the subject of their discussion, and I hope that Senator Borowski will confirm this as a witness. It was a discussion about whether it was Róża Luxembourg or Marks or Engels or if Trotsky was right. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that the commandos became leaders because they stayed in such a role to compromise the 1968 movement, inscribed by the Ursaic propaganda. It was the urzarov propaganda that made them comfortable leaders so that the Polish people would move away from them. Only fortunately, these commandos, Adam Michnik, Irena Lasota, and many others, turned out to be much wiser than the Uzarites. For example, Jacek Kuroń spoke about this in 1977 at a meeting with the SKS Which he was eavesdropping on, or rather listening to, Malek, an agent, and then politely writing it down and returning it to the esbeks, so today we have great historical material. Jacek Kuroń then said this: we in March 1968 realized that Polishness is completely elsewhere, that she is in freedom, and that it is necessary to speak with these young people as these young people say. The Commandos have entered so deeply into Poland that they have become one of the most important parts of our Polish intelligence, thanks to which we have independence. But here's a 50-year perspective that makes us understand it today. It is worth to understand, however, what happened in 1968 and who was the host of what values, and who took over Polish values in order to really continue fighting for this Polish freedom. This is, in my opinion, the real dimension of Marc, 68, the most important, the most important. And that's why we can put that date in this string of dates, otherwise we couldn't. The mosquitoes, however, led a double, disgusting game with the Polish people. On the one hand, for the current need, they wanted to compromise the then freedom movement 1968, recognising that it was the Jews who were de facto doing this March 68, and on the other hand, of course, following Moscow's rulers, they decided once again to take up the anti-Jewish thread, notabene in a natural way. It exists in Polish society. In 1968 we as Poles had the right to have anti-Jewish sentiments. Well, since Różanski is pulling his nails out of the National Army, there's really no reason to love Różanski. And since there's more than 40% of them in the MBP, there's no reason to love this community. In 1968, the urizards on the basis of a ventilation valve, which was controlled by them, suddenly for the first time they told an AK soldier: yes, you were tired Well, tell me about it. It was a reality in which the urizards performed a certain operational game on the Polish people, and this is, of course, March 68. However, calling anti - Jewish sentiments was not needed to triumph the truth to triumph justice. No. Moczara supported the party apparatus of forty-year-olds, which was the party apparatus I was about to finish off. He wanted to get power over all those positions occupied by the people who were then expelled. And it's objective truth, ladies and gentlemen, it's not some lunar story, it's just a historical fact. Therefore, You have to ask yourself a question. This is really going to be the last thing that follows for us from this description, which I briefly presented. The most important thing that results from this is that the Jewish community leaving Poland in 1968 and 1972 left with an anti-Polish trauma, i.e. with trauma such that it was not Moczar and the communists who threw them out, only that it was us, it was me, Jan Żaryn, who threw them out, means that it was us, Poles who did it. 'Cause I think I'm a Pole, not a communist. Well, the problem is that we need this historical knowledge today. I'm talking about this and this side of the room. To go to these people... I feel the same way, Mr. Senator Rulewski, that it would be good if they were sitting here with us. You have to go to them and tell them: yes, of course, your trauma is of great importance, it's real, we don't argue with traumas... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...but today it is important that you recognize who you owe that fate to. You owe it to the communists who owe it to us, The Poles imposed power in 1944 and 1945. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u14	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, control me because I'm emotional... 10 years ago I was a representative of the Polish parliament with a message to my brothers, friends who were expelled from Poland. And then our parliament made a clear apology. And by the way, there have been beautiful initiatives so that they can come back, because since the new Poland... Mr. Senator Żaryn, you were a child at the time, you don't even know what's going on. The Seym made a huge impression on me yesterday because of the Seym In which I was a Member for 10 years he did not debate this serious matter, but beautifully, through acclamation, passed a draft resolution or bill... [[Voice from the room: Resolutions.]] ...and she almost completely passed through to us. I am, of course, surprised that in the situation we are now in, gentlemen, you are gracious to make historical carpets about the situation, instead of dealing with what is the greatest truth and pain. Well, I was a student at the time when we were beaten when we tried to fight for free Poland. At that time, we did not look at whether it concerns our friends and brothers of Polish Jewish origin, but we fought for freedom. This incident left an extraordinary trauma in all of us. If you gentlemen want to analyze how this happened, then... I would prefer that you see these trains, this Gdańsk Railway Station, those poor, crying people who were Poles and were thrown out of Poland by mean anti-Semitics. For you to see these tears that took place, these abandoned families, so that you can see all these years of longing for the homeland that Poland was for them. And now I want to tell you Because this debate is being watched, she is being watched in a situation where I will meet my friends in Krakow on Saturday at 5 p.m., invited by the Jewish community as a man who tried to do as much as possible to ensure that Polish-Israeli relations were at the highest level... I'm sorry, I'm a little running out... once, Weiss' seamsuit said that the art we present sometimes gives more than politicians' actions. We're not allowed to drive any kind of... For now, I'm done. Thank you very much. I am very concerned, but I remind you that we are brothers and we live in one beautiful country called Poland and in which there is no xenophobia, there is no intolerance and there is no anti-Semitism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There wouldn't be a Workers' Defense Committee. And thanks to the Committee for the Defence of Workers, its activities, to the seed, which was thrown on Polish soil and which resulted in a great working break in 1980... It would not have been without Marc's experience. Because Marc's experience is the experience of loneliness of those who want freedom and truth. [[As a Jewish purgatory.]] This is the experience of loneliness of younger and older people, students, young people, academics, generally Polish intelligence, which at the time did not support the so-called. Worker's class. And this experience was repeated 2 years later, when during the events on the Coast, the strikers did not receive enough support from Polish intelligence. [[Gomulka à rebours.]] These 2 experiences of solitude combined gave a reaction after the Radom events in 1976 and finally gave the conviction that the Polish intelligence must be with the worker, and that the employee of the socialist industrial plant must be supported by an intellectual, i.e. they gave a method to overthrow communism in Poland. It was a method of overthrowing communism in Poland. And that's why lying to the historical truth is what I hear in this room, that Marc.68 cannot be written into a series of events, such a series of milestones from 1956 until 1989. With Marc, with the leaders of this movement, with the leaders of the free movement And don't make a fool of yourself. We can be proud. It's not like the senator said that the main character was General Mozart. The main characters of that time were those... [[Jewish purges, Mr. Senator, Jewish purges.]] You're the one who's gonna have the chance to make it right. That's what I'd expect. The main heroes were Adam Michnik, Henryk Szlaifer and others called the commandos who started this spiral of freedom in 1968. And to them we owe first and foremost respect and thanks. [[Applause]] [[That's what the lighthouse said.]] In addition, we went on various routes to independence, which was won in 1989 by a ballot. Of course, one way was to gather around the Catholic Church, which was a rock for our independence activities. But the second was this current, which began on the wave of October -56 continued by, among others. Jack Kuronia, by Professor Modzelewski, then still a student of Modzelewski at the University of Warsaw, called the revisionist movement. This would not have been intelligent if it had not been for their initiative in 1962, I stress: in 1962, the organisation of a political club at the University of Warsaw. And there would be no rebellion in 1968 without outrage both students and dormitories of the University of Warsaw and other universities in connection with repressions that met Jack Curonia and Karol Modzelewski after 1964. Do we remember Charles Modzelewski's letter and Jack Kuronia's letter from 1964? Yeah, I think we remember. Do we remember what they wrote at that time about how the party monopolized all political decisions, how it monopolized and controlled communication, how it does not allow for free dialogue, how it does not allow freedom of speech? Yeah, I think we remember. If we do not remember, we must quickly fill this gap in our senate consciousness. Because it was the other current. The second important current, which gradually scattered the batch from the inside. And the fact that so many PZPR people joined the solidarity after 1980 shows that this movement was also effective. I am talking about this as a man who has never been in any communist organization, has been active in the anti-communist movement from the very beginning, even when there was not yet a "Solidarity," but I remember that in the student structures of the "Solidarity" committees, to which I joined, operating in various cities in Poland in the 1970s, these trends met, these two trends met, among young people. So I repeat: we went to our freedom in various ways, and about this path that was set by Jacek Kuroń and Karol Modzelewski, and which was followed later by the commandos, inciting the youthful student uprising against the PZPR, must not be forgotten. Thirdly, of course, that as a result of the political engineering used by the rulers, as a result of fractional clashes in the PZPR, but this is always the case when the party monopoly is reached, anti-Semitism demons have been launched in Poland. What was called anti-Zionism came to bad ground. Some of them, I hope, most of them. They didn't know what they were involved in because they had these banners and posters prepared for them. But those who inspired the anti-Semitic and so-called. The anti-Zionist speeches, they knew exactly what they were doing. It is clear that the decisions were made at the very top of the PZPR, and it is obvious that Gomulka went here in the direction designated by the witches. But it is not today and it should not be today, Mr. Senators, I address to both gentlemen the topic of discussion what dominated your speeches, but what I said earlier: our satisfaction with this and our tribute to those who made an extremely difficult decision, which cost their prisons, costing their repression, on behalf of freedom of speech and freedom of assembly in 1968. We do not need, at least we on this side, to refer in any way to the harmful law on IPN and its consequences. We have observed these consequences. I ask that the March discussion should not justify the catastrophe that occurred in Poland's relations with Israel, and the great problems that arose between our closest ally. and us, the United States and Poland, as a result of your hopeless, unnecessary and harmful decision to adopt the IPN Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u18	Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! With the big-format speeches we just heard, my speech will be a tiny picture of what was in my memory back then. I was a senior in 1968. The events that took place at that time did not have as powerful a political basis as we hear today. It seems to me that this whole overbuilding is too extensive and designed for today's needs. It was a little different then. It is worth remembering those who remember those times. What was the basis of all this? Of course, reaching backwards, I can say that the reasons were material, especially for those who lived somewhere in the province, like me, for example. in Chelm, where there were dozens of secondary schools, but where there were news about what is happening in the world, not only in Warsaw, and it's good news, I can say that, judging it from today's point of view. There were no higher education institutions or an appropriate environment, more political, but the youth responded. Long before the accidents in Warsaw, we had secret youth meetings. Sometimes you could have doubts about whether they were really secret. Somehow it all happened naturally and felt the need to reveal something that was in us, in the nation, or the need for certain changes. What happened then? Well, there were leaflets and articles in school newspapers. I also made an article like that. It is a good thing that the janitor, careful about what is happening, took it off, because it was a youth article entitled "The Bible. " How does being shape consciousness? And it could've ended badly. There have been demonstrations and meetings, to such a large extent that 2 secondary school directors have been removed from their posts for underobservation of young people. And I remember the day my colleagues from other schools told me that there were some gentlemen in their schools, probably from the services, who looked at all the rooms and even the walls, and checked to see if there were any hidden youth articles. How did it end? Yeah, of course. Away from the central events everything was different, but the spark that then appeared in our thinking remained. She has done a lot among young people, and the teachers have made no obstacles for us. Therefore, listening to these large-format speeches today, I would like to say that it is worth remembering that it was not only Warsaw, but also the Polish province. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski... [[Senator Probie.]] Sorry, my mistake. Senator Probier. Senator Rulewski will speak after Senator Probieru.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Let me share with you some reflection on the events of Marc.68. Senator Hare said that most of the speeches were large format. I would like to share the reflection that young people of that time had. What has been said here so far is already an analytical version of these events. I'd like to go back to what happened in 1968 when I was just a 17-year-old high school student. I remember perfectly. I've got it right in front of me. That the reality of that day was, to put it mildly, very sturdy. We knew in this group of our students, our colleagues, that the information that appears in the press is completely incompatible with what we are witnessing every day. I don't know if that's when the joke came along or the saying that the press was giving the information that was true, likely, and the rest of it. I'm telling you right away that the real ones are probably obituaries, and it's probably weather forecasts, and the rest of them. We were aware of that. Ladies and gentlemen, in our school, and it was in the Silesian agglomeration, information appeared. It was a few days after these speeches in Warsaw That students from Warsaw will come to us and we will protest against arrests, against the situation in which we are in. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember perfectly well that the most inconspicuous student of our class prepared this whole meeting, was among its organizers. I attended probably the first such demonstration in Silesia, in Katowice, which took the route from the railway station, the old main station in Katowice to the monument of the Silesian Insurgents. On the way, the number of participants increased, we raised banners with demands and passwords: "Press is lying!", "The freedom of the press!", "Let the students go!." And near the voivodship military staff, we screamed: "Wojsko, come with us!" We reached the monument of the Silesian Insurgents, where the resolution was read. I can't remember what it said because there was no sound and it was hard... And when we returned calmly back to the center of Katowice, I witnessed certain events that probably shaped my posture until today. Well, I've seen... I would like to stress that there was no ZOMO at the time. A fellow Żaryn said something about the ZOMO, but it was a militia back then, although not always dressed in militia uniforms. The way we got the big spanking, the way we pulled our cops' bitches... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I witnessed it on the street. The evening in Katowice was thrown with some pavement plates into the windows, on the shops' windows, and then the police arrested them. all standing around, just not the ones who threw. I remember that, and I remember it until today. I still have the silhouettes written down... The second day at school This is also one of the events I remember, one of my colleagues, the one who got the most hit, could not sit in the school bench calmly. And imagine that our most favorite teacher, economics teacher We also knew that he was an officer in Anders' army, and he kicked him out of class because he was drilling, that he was restless. After a while. Maybe it was 2 weeks before our class came a new colleague, a new student. He was very calm, he was sitting in the corner. After a while, we made contact with him and found that he had been expelled from another school for participating in these riots. He quickly gained our friendship, he was even a little bit of a leader. And all of a sudden, in June, probably, it turned out to be a Jewish friend. He wasn't bragging about it, and we weren't pointing it at him. A normal friend, a friend. And we learned that because in June 1968 he was forced to leave Poland. It was our friend, he was thinking the same thing, he was acting just like us, and unfortunately he had to leave our country, and we said goodbye. I remember feeling sorry for him, but as a young man, at that time less than 18 years old, I also envied that he could go to the West. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will be consistent in expressing my regret at the Marshal or even the entire Senate Bureau, because, despite such an important anniversary, such an important event, to which even President Duda pays great attention, the participants, of course those living in March 1968, were not invited to this resolution today. In particular, those who sat here, like Senator Modzelewski, were not invited. Nor were parliamentarians invited to the second Chamber: Litinski, Uncle, and even on the other side of today's political scene by Vice-Marshal Terletki. I think that there was no obstacle that we, in the family atmosphere, should celebrate this day, especially since other such resolutions are made in a very, I would say, ceremonial setting. If so, I invite them as if virtually, but not those who accompany us every day in the newspapers, in the media, not the famous ones, but at least this 18-year-old boy named Karol Storch, who was brought to the Prisoner Work Centre in Stargard Szczecinski in March 1968. You shouldn't have asked him anything, you could see it was a Jewish child. It was interesting why he, a boy of such a fine stature, I would say, if Bogdan was not offended, that it was half of Borusewicz, but of today, because then Borusewicz was also a mikri... I was convinced he didn't go to the army because they were just so... And a referral to an artillery unit didn't authorize him to carry 100-pound rounds. The next interview proved that he, this loner... His father, a publisher in Wroclaw, closed up, put him down. And he's been offered In quotes it was proposed to go to Israel, but of course he couldn't make a decision without his father. It's such a note to explain that time. Charles refused, so he was taken into the chamomile. And that's how we met. And he too, in my opinion, should be here among us. I don't even know exactly what he was screaming at those demonstrations in Wroclaw and if he was screaming at all. I'm sure they were checking his evidence... not his I.D., because, as you know, there was no nationality or religion in the communist evidence. I think that the presence of those people that aren't here and that I've allowed myself to invite virtually, and yet my colleagues also reach for graves... [[But he's talking...]] Well, I should also mention Jack Curon, the main sponsor. I apologize for such an expression, the animator of these events, but also the victim. It was then that further repressions fell on Charles Modzelewski, on Litinski, on Curonia, severe repression. There's not much talk about these people here about the fact that apart from the fact that they've been detained, they've also been arrested. I would therefore really like to end with this expression of respect and thanks to all those who have taken part in this and who have transferred values to the victorious revolution. There is a third demand in the Gdansk agreements just after the union rights: freedom of expression. And this is in 1968, whatever we say, like Mr. Senator Żaryn or Mr. Senator Ryszka, about what was the essence of the events, who participated in them... Well, there's a common denominator for these events: freedom of speech. And it was the freedom of speech that was written just after union demands, but before material demands, in postulate three. Finally, there is an optimistic message, because it is no longer a virtual invitation: among us there is a participant of those events, being sort of a binding buckle of 1968 and 1980 and the next years, which is called Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Applause]] [[Ad vocem...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recalling the events from 50 years ago, it is worth reaching to the origins of these events, because this will only allow for a final assessment. At the same time, I would be very careful when it comes to making parallels between that situation and the current situation, especially regarding Polish-Israeli relations, in addition to those judged by the opposition. - I think it's wrong. By the recent law on the amendment of the IPN Act, but I will move on to that later. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that these events, which started in Warsaw, were not limited to Warsaw, but spilled over almost all of Poland. It is symptomatic that they were even in Legnica itself, where the Soviet troops were stationed, and the momentum of these events was so great that they reached for police forces from neighbouring cities. There were events, of course, in such centres as Kraków, Tarnów, but also in many smaller centres. What did they prove? They proved one thing: that young people, who seemed to be Communists, after a quarter of an century of the existence of the communist system and indoctrination... She showed how the way is her freedom, especially freedom of expression, freedom of expression. After all, this freedom was scandalously choked by censorship and the ban on the production of Dejmek's grandfathers. Young people have shown that they are still attached to this fundamental fundamental value, which also determines human dignity, namely freedom of expression, freedom of opinion. Of course it also coincided with the international situation, among others. with the Arab-Israeli War. This must be remembered and it should also be remembered that the Israeli army, largely trained by Poles Because there were those who were in General Anders' army who had some kind of big military experience, and skills from a purely technical point of view when it comes to building weapons and using them. It won very quickly in that conflict that then existed. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that the Soviet support not only in ideological form, but above all in the form of weapons, was not helped because it proved to be much worse quality than the Israeli army had. And then what happens? Then the source of the leak begins to be sought, how it is known that the Arabs had Soviet weapons, and that this weapon failed to prove that it was much worse than the weapon Israel used. They started searching for the source of the leak and found that it had to come from Polish military sources. And that's why they're after the Jews. Because they found out who might have leaked it. Well, Jews, since there was a Jewish-Arab war. And all of this somehow put on those events that young people have just started to defend freedom. And it has to be said that this whole anti-Semitic campaign that was then unleashed At that time, it was not even spoken of as an anti-Semitic, but as an anti-Syonistic one, which was then driven out by Gomulak's commanding camp, which, in some ways, covered the beginning of these events, their being. It is also important to remember that in these events not only did young people take part And it's not just a student, because it's also students, middle school kids. But the workers were also involved. And here's a little correction for the narrative you're trying to make, that the workers were supposed to be against the students, and in any case they didn't support them. Ladies and gentlemen, let's remember one thing: among the 3,000 people arrested at the time, 950 were students, 950 were students, and the rest, which is almost half, were workers. So that the workers also took part in these events and were on the right side, on the side of those who hungered for freedom as the basis of their human dignity. And that is why it is worth remembering these events also from this point of view. And judging the attitude of the authorities that ruled in Poland at the time And which, as you know, did not come from free elections, but from the giving of the Soviets, it is worth recalling that these authorities were quite ruthless with the opposition. Their rage resulted, as I say, from the fact that these people thought that for so many decades they had been able to invade the minds of young people with this wonderful mirage of the communist system, and yet these people proved to be completely impeccable to this ideology and still had such views as their parents and generation raised before the war, based on traditional values of respect for truth, faithfulness to their homeland and to God. That is why this reaction, the reaction, which is all the more reprehensible, is that the same authorities two years earlier signed an act of international law very important as regards the protection of freedom of expression and other rights enjoyed by man. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, first in 1948. As I said, two years earlier these authorities signed a pact of political and civil rights adopted by the United Nations, and yet two years after the signing of this pact they dealt with these young people in this way. I'd like to sum up. All these consecutively evaluated events lead to one conclusion, that is what the great poet Rymkiewicz once said: that in Poles there is something that distinguishes us from other nations, namely the fantastic gene of freedom, which causes that in every situation, even when it seems hopeless, we fight for human dignity, for its freedom, for respect for its fundamental rights. And this event of 1968 was the best proof of this, and the reaction of the authorities of that time, very determined and ruthless, proved only their powerlessness towards this wonderful gene of freedom which lies in our nation. We should worship this one, which I am appealing for, beyond any division, without any analogy or criticism, because, I think, this is not the right time to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u27	Dear Senators! First, I'd like to thank Senator Cichoni for mentioning Legnica. I was born in Legnica. I was eight, but I remember my whole life, like my father... We were running off on a road, on the street, at the so-called. Quadrant. I'm stuck with something like this, a childhood memory... And then, as an adult, I asked a historian, Prof. Vladimir Suleja, if I remembered correctly that I was running away from the militia with my father in my childhood, he held me and ran away. That's when I found out, because Professor Suleja did such research that there were very big demonstrations in Legnica. So it spilled somewhere. There were no students in Legnica, but there were young people, and actually almost half of the city went out into the streets and protested. I'd like to talk about this and one more thing. On behalf of myself, but also of Senator Oremski, on behalf of us, Wroclaw, I would like to remind you of the silhouette of Władysław Sidorowicz, a senator of two terms, who was already dead today, who was a wonderful, excellent leader of protests at Wrocław universities. We in Wrocław always remember that. I also came out here to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, of these discussions that are going on, that sometimes we break down the open door, that we once went forward, and today we absolutely needlessly retreat. Senator Klich was talking about the fact that some of the things that come up, such as this IPN bill, are taking us back in certain areas for years. Really, when you do something, it's worth thinking deeply about what damage you can do. I would like to finish with a quote, reminding the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2 March 1990. I found them here thank you very much for helping the Senate office. The point is that we should also know that the Senate had already spoken in this case and what it looked like then. Statement of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2 March 1990. In March 1968 the then party and state authorities launched a political campaign in the country under the slogan of the supposed fight against Zionism. The victims of this action were academics and intellectuals, but above all Polish citizens of Jewish origin. The vast majority of those affected by persecution then left our country, taking with them bitter memories of the harm and humiliation they suffered. The March campaign of 1968 served to compete within the communist power camp, but the odium for acts of indecency and injustice caused to people fell on the entire Polish society, causing great political and moral damage to the nation and the Polish state. Our nation, as a community faithful to Christian traditions and principles of European civilization, is not responsible for the events of March 1968. This does not relieve individuals, and even entire communities, from moral reckoning with the attitudes, words, and deeds that the collective memory has preserved until today. Polish society in a large majority expects the Republic of Poland to have an appropriate political and moral evaluation of these events from years ago. The Republic received in a sad inheritance after the previous system of state authority a lot of human harm, which, if possible, should be repaired, in accordance with the principles of democracy, pluralism and freedom, in the name of respect for human and civil rights. The Senate of the Republic of Poland deeply regrets the unworthy excesses that occurred during the March events in our country. The Senate invites people who forcedly left the country to return to the territory of the Republic, which is today the Homeland of all people connected with the Polish tradition, values of culture and personal choice. Whatever their origins, views, religion, or political beliefs. I read this statement from the Senate of 1990, the Senate that has already been elected democratically. I would like to point out that there are not only words, regrets, but also an attempt to make amends. Fortunately, it happened and those people who were expelled from Poland, who had their passports taken away, could and can come back to Poland today and be our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm not going to discuss the mattress, although I might be able to say a lot about it. There were people who sacrificed more than me and suffered much more. I was not at all in favour of some developed historical discussion on this matter because either we are not historians, or, if we are, if someone is a historian, it usually represents some specific option that he presents here. And this kind of debate. In particular, when we talk about very sensitive matters, the threat is that what we want to achieve with this resolution, i.e. paying tribute, honoring those who risked their health, life, or those who were wronged, all of this disappears, and only our traditional Polish quarrel remains. Yeah, but it happened, as usual... So I just want to address some issues so that they don't stay so suspended. When Senator Żaryn presented here a philosophy about where resistance came from, how dissident attitudes were born, he emphasized here the role of the Church. Of course I don't deny this role. And as for those young people who were later known as the commandos, he said that they did not discuss Dmowski, Piłsudski, but whether Róża Luxembourg was right or maybe Bernstein or maybe Marks etc., etc. There's no senator here. But he'll read it to himself if he wants. And I'm in a hurry to inform him... He, in 1968, was 10 years old, and then, when we started these discussions, he was four, so I guess it couldn't have gotten to him. Well, we started in 1961 with the Questors' Club. He was founded by the families of mostly prewar Communists young people who were taught by their parents that socialism is a beautiful system, a beautiful system that proclaims wonderful slogans And that's what he was preaching. But it was because they were taught this way, and at the same time they saw what reality looked like, that rebellion was growing in them. And that Questors' Club. It was founded in 1961. Or rather, its name gives it away. We really weren't discussing Rose Luxembourg there, we were discussing history there, about Katyn there, we were inviting the priest to talk to this priest about what the Church's view of things is. We were simply entering the forbidden areas, and that's why after two years this club was liquidated. If we were discussing the Rose of Luxembourg, we could certainly be discussing it for a long time. From this club were people who then joined in various stages in protests, in opposition. So I wanted to clear this up first. Senator Żaryn also stated that the opinion about Poland as an anti-Semitic country was grounded or even passed on by those who left. Well, if 13 or 15,000 people were on a wave of anti-Semitic pursuits, they might have been among them, and they certainly were. Who have been preaching these thesis. But that's absolutely not true. These people obviously had a huge sense of harm, but their attachment to Poland, their patriotism cannot be denied today. I have dealt with these people many times, precisely because at one time I worked with them, and I have heard from them many times what they do in the country, what actions they take to defend the good name of Poland, on various matters, to promote various Polish achievements, etc. Good few years ago I was chairman of the Parliament's Communications Commission with Poles abroad, of course I had many contacts with Poles abroad, with Polonia, and on many occasions we were based on March emigrants who were very helpful in various matters. So I absolutely deny protesting such statements. Well, on the one hand, they're given a part because they're hurt and so on, and on the other hand, they're said to have behaved rudely. Well, no, that's not true. There is also a question of this kind... Senator Ryszka presented here a concept or a view according to which it is really so: mostly among those leaving... You presented various numbers here, it was not clear to the full, but as if it were because in a large part of the trip there were different Stalinists, stalkers, etc., etc. There were maybe 2% of those who were going away. Maybe 3%. The rest were just families. The fact that someone was working at the ministry one or the other I'm not talking about the Ministry of Internal Affairs. He was the director of the department. So what? But therefore it was the later Moczarowska thesis: these are all those who oppressed you, they left, so there is nothing to regret. And that's another untruth, another myth. By the way, I would like to tell you, to those who do not really believe that in the version that Senator Żaryn prepared, and you have confidence in him, it was clearly written that they were leaving, contrary to propaganda, not communist criminals, but ordinary families. So it is time to put an end to this spread of this harmful and harmful myth. Why did they leave? Senator Ryszka said: well, they got some money, they left, they didn't actually get hurt, etc. Well, it's such an approach that there are Poles who are attached to their homeland and they're not going anywhere, and if someone's harassing them, they won't leave anyway, and there are those who aren't so attached to it, so they're leaving. Well, the situation was that these people suddenly felt alien in our country. It was a famous accident. It's just a little signal. When Marek Edelman, the hero of the Polish, Jewish, hero of the ghetto, Marek Edelman the doctor came to his hospital to work, and the hen who stood there on the gate, said: We do not let Jews in. These people heard something like that. I know that because I've kind of witnessed it. That's why they felt like strangers. No employment, of course, no job... Plus, it's kind of like getting people away from them. Yeah, some of them were tough. Some of them were tough and said, "I'm not leaving, so I don't know what, among other things. Michnik was like that... [[Bielecki.]] [[Bielecki, Bielecki.]] Yes, Bielecki. And a lot of other people, absolutely. But, well, not everyone. May none of us ever be in this situation in our own country. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] There is now such an exhibition in the Museum of the History of Polish Jews, called the Aliens at home. There was a long discussion inside about the title of this exhibition. The title was finally accepted. Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about him. Prime Minister Morawiecki said: well, what a title it is, after all the Jews were not strangers to us, for 800 years they were etc. But the problem is, at this point, they were treated like strangers. And that's what this title is all about. Prime Minister Morawiecki tries every time to present things not what they look like, including his famous saying that in 1968 there was no Poland. In 1968. I can say There was no Prime Minister Morawiecki because he was born this year. So maybe it's better to be careful, because that's not how we're supposed to discuss the past. Or they say there were Poles and communists. Unfortunately, there were also Polish communists. This kind of distinction shows that there is a nation that is separate and which is very good, heroic, has a gene of freedom, etc., etc., and on the other hand there is a handful that manipulates... Oh, no. After all, we have grown into heroes in hundreds of years and various subterfuges. [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] Now, Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. And I would like to say that I share this voice of Senator Rulewski, that if it were to be such an initiative that connects, then there should be Adam Michnik, Henryk Szlaifer... Irena Lasot... [[Seweryn Blumsztajn.]] [[Stanishkis.]] ...should also sit there because she read the resolution and then she was harassed. And we'd probably find a few more of those. Seweryn Blumszajn, Henry the Szlaifer of course, yes. They should just be here. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] Well, they're not here. That is why I want to thank them from this stand, also as their colleague at that time. Adam Michnik was the man with whom I worked for many years and who went on, who sacrificed his freedom, who repeatedly sat in prison, who when Kiszczak offered him freedom and travel abroad, wrote him an offensive letter. And today this man is spoken of as Senator Ryszka said, who mentioned Stefan Michnik, gently, as a criminal who also went away, etc. And Stefan Michnik is his half-brother, with whom he has nothing to do with it. What's this all about, anyway? So to him, Henry Szlaifer, Iren Lasota, all these people, to my colleagues, who in 1968 were heroically opposed to that power, and who suffered the various consequences... Mine in front of them is a bull's-eye. I would like to thank them once again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u30	You have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was called upon at the Senior Convention meeting to adopt this resolution, which is a good resolution, short, concise and conveys in important words what March was. And it's a good thing it's a joint resolution. I would listen to this appeal to adopt this resolution without discussion... [[Applause]] ...but... [[What appeal?]] That's how it's supposed to be. But after these voices in the discussion that began after the draft resolution... Well, I can't keep quiet for different reasons. [[Right.]] I can't agree with that kind of relationship. And it's a good thing some of us didn't agree with that. That those who took part in the demonstrations of March 1968 have apparent knowledge. Well, if that were the case, then knowledge would be put on your head. But knowledge is based on facts and on what we experience. [[Historical.]] Therefore, it was very interesting for me to hear these voices, which concerned different centres, because March and 1968 were youth revolts, youth revolts throughout Poland. And it's not like students or intelligence or workers... No. It was a generational rebellion. And that's why there, in these statistics, there are workers, and students, and students. Because it was a generational rebellion that was difficult to qualify. It wasn't just a student rebellion. I repeat, it was a youth rebellion. In Gdansk they were mainly schoolchildren. Students, of course, yes, the University of Technology... But in this huge demonstration, which took place on March 15, where there were 20,000 young people... this demonstration lasted for hours, the militia was unable to disperse it, it lasted from 3:00 p.m. to late night hours. It was in Gdansk. And most of all, schoolchildren took part in this demonstration. The students were locked up in the polytechnic area. A few days earlier, March 12th, there was the first demonstration before the Press House, with passwords: The press is lying. Because that was the first password. I mean, the next password, because the first password was about Granddads. And this outrage was related to the fact that the most important drama for Polish culture, on which generations learned... And we also learned, we knew him, i.e. We knew about this drama. After all, no one has read this drama, even if it was a reading. But everyone heard that Mickiewicz's grandfathers were taken down. But then this rebellion expanded for two reasons: because of the use of force against those who protested and rightly protested In Warsaw, he knew that the press was lying, he knew that the system was based on violence and lies. And why young people? I didn't see the older ones there. Well, at the universities of assistants, some professors, in Warsaw in particular... It was young people because in such a situation hopeless young people are guided by reflexes, heart reflexes, not calculated. Anyone who calculated it knew that they shouldn't protest because they knew what the consequences would be. I was a part of it. For March I received my first sentence, 3 years in prison. And not only was I a demonstration participant, but I also made 130 flyers. And for those 130 flyers, I got that sentence. [[Have you sat down, Mr. Marshal?]] [[What kind of question is that?]] But Poland has changed and changed, thanks to protests, thanks to social pressures. Why? That Poland was changing. Because compared to martial law and arrest during martial law... If I got three years for 130 flyers, then for what I did later, I should get the death penalty. I didn't get that sentence, Senator. [[Death penalty or three years, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Oh, Jesus!]] [[It's not even appropriate...]] [[He told me what he knew.]] [[Senator, let the marshal speak to you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Let me hear it!]] However, my main objection does not concern details, my main opposition and my disagreement is due to the attempt to push what was happening in Poland, and to say it like this: those who did it were not Poles, there was no Polish state. There was a country called PRL with limited sovereignty. And anyone who knows a little history can carry out an analogy to the Kingdom of Poland. But without that analogy we could say that we were educated, functioned, performed. I had a charge against the state, the state at that time. Well, it cannot be accepted, nor can I accept the assumption that these repressions were not done by Poles, i.e. that if someone was in PZPR or PPR, it was not Polish, and if someone was not in PZPR or PPR, it was Polish. We remember that period. I'm not saying it wasn't that easy... But it's easy, it's easy, it's convenient to accept such a rule that what's wrong isn't us. Well, if we accept the principle that those in PZPR, those in PZPR, and those in PZPR, were 3.5 million in the 1970s, at the end of the 1970s, When they signed up for Solidarity, they became Poles that they became Poles... What about those who belong here and there? But this is a different period... I want to show that March, but also earlier moves October or later, these symbolic months like December or August Each of them was a step that brought us closer to freedom and extended our freedom. But I also want to say that the power of that time, the power we now call communist power... [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] ...she didn't just use repression. Anti-Semitism in 1968 was an attempt to neutralise this youth movement. And she was effective. And it wasn't just repression... She was effective because she hit the vulnerable ground. And it had this. also the support of those who took up positions took warm jobs released by those who were removed, emigrated, forced to emigrate. That was the mechanism. Previously, in particular 1965, anti-Germanity was a PZPR stick, an ideological stick with that authority. That wasn't enough in 1968. So anti-Semitism was an attempt, and it was a sticky force of power. And unfortunately some Poles neutralized... some supported it, some were neutralized. And that is why this movement was neutralized, not only by repression, but also by this type of political-propagandary action. And that is what we must remember and avoid all such situations. I'm not saying history doesn't teach, but let history never repeat itself. The lessons of history need to be learned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u32	Let me inform you that the list of speakers... [[More, more.]] Senator Ryszka? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u33	I still have my minutes. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that there were so many words in the discussion that only strengthened my historical awareness of March 1968. Well, unfortunately, it always seemed to me that somehow dominates our historical consciousness that the truth that March 1968 was only Jewish purgatory, but here I heard such beautiful statements of Senators Klich, Borowski and Borusewicz, that it was a rebellion of young people that it was the ethos of freedom. [[He was.]] And in this sense it fits perfectly with June, October and subsequent Polish months until August 1980. Yes, thank you very much. As for my speech, in which I drew a little bit of the Jewish issue, I did so only to highlight this trend of freedom of Polish students, Polish youth. I myself then flew the streets with a thousand other students, calling out: Gestapo! We were flooded with water, beaten with sticks, so that I remember these times perfectly. And it hurts me that someone can combine it only with the fact that some number of Jews in this great trauma had to leave Poland. It was, as we have said here, a consequence of these fractional fights in the PZPR. The important thing was that we demanded freedom of speech. It was a battle against censorship, a fight against the armor that was imposed on us by force. And one more point. Here we were told that the IPN Act had withdrawn us for years. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has made us realize how much the world's knowledge of these so-called ones is being lied about. Polish concentration camps - because this formulation was repeated in thousands of different radio magazines and broadcasts. So that just as we need to build a new narrative about March 1968 and convince that they were not just these mythical ethnic cleansings, we also need to build a new historical narrative that Poles were victims, the biggest victims, not the perpetrators of the Holocaust. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u34	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on combating food waste. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The draft is contained in print No 263 and the committee's report In print No 263 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a joint report on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on the Law, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, a draft law on combating food waste - Senate print No 263. The draft law presented was adopted at the meeting of the Joint Committee on 18 December 2017. Previously, the meetings took place on 2 and 28 March and 15 May 2017. These meetings were attended by representatives of the departments concerned, as well as representatives of commercial networks and food banks. During these meetings, all interested parties were able to present their views on the proposed law. The committees also received numerous written opinions, both from interested resorts as well as commercial networks and food banks operating in Poland. These opinions were sent, among others.: Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister of the Environment, President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Minister of Finance, President of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Caritas Poland, Polish Trade and Distribution Organization, Business Centre Club. The Commission considers that the waste of food at every stage, from the manufacturing stage to its possible disposal, is an important environmental, economic and ethical problem. This causes among others. consequences such as loss of revenue and the need to bear the costs of food disposal, increase energy consumption and over-use of natural resources, including drinking water. This is happening in a situation of malnutrition of parts of society. The scale of food waste at different stages of the process varies from country to country. On average, as estimated by the European Commission on the basis of the 2012 data. 89 million t of food per year is wasted in the European Union, i.e. 179 kg per person. The distribution area is responsible for this in about 5% Whereas in households it is more than 40%. Eurostat data show that around 9 million t of food is wasted in Poland per year. In 2006 it was 235 kg per year, between the child and the elderly. Data from the European Commission show that in 2014 41 000 t of food was transferred to the European Union via food banks. According to data from the Federation of Polish Food Banks, in 2015 65 000 t of food was transferred through food banks and beyond. 81 000 t of fruit and vegetables covered by the Russian embargo. The issue of food waste concerns the European Parliament resolution of 19 January 2012 entitled "How to avoid food waste: strategies to improve the efficiency of the food chain in the EU. It points to the need to minimise food waste and to adopt concrete measures to reduce food waste by 50% by 2025. The aim of the projectors is to reduce food waste, which is part of the circular economy concept. Currently, in Poland, the only solution in this respect is the tax rules that have been in place since 1 January 2009, which provide for exemption from tax on goods and services donations made by producers whose object is food products, except alcoholic beverages. They were extended as from 1 October 2013 and are included in distributors and are currently covering all taxpayers making such donations. In view of the fact that tax facilities are mainly used by food producers, designers focus on large shops because their large scale facilitates the logistics of food transport to food banks and the technical infrastructure allows for the efficient identification of food with an approaching shelf-life date. The centralised decision-making structure allows for the smooth implementation of procedures to limit food waste. The proposed regulation aims to ensure that traders selling food in commercial units of more than 250 m2 whose revenues from the sale of foodstuffs exceed 50% revenues from the sale of all goods, could be transferred free of charge to unsold food products using the tax credits so far in this respect. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 The proposed law clarifies its objective of reducing the negative social, environmental and economic impacts of food waste. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the bill, in the vocabulary, definitions of food waste, food waste for social purposes, food vendors, as well as the definition of a non-governmental organisation whose statutory purpose is to perform public tasks in the field of social assistance, family support and foster care, charitable activities are introduced. Art. The 3rd project obliges food vendors to conclude a social food transfer agreement with the NGO. The contract should be concluded in writing or in electronic form, subject to annulment. The provision also regulates what should be included in the provision on time and how food should be transferred to the social objectives of a non-governmental organisation, on the distribution of the costs of receiving and distributing food between the parties to the contract, on cases where the non-governmental organisation may cancel or refuse to receive food, and on the duration of the contract and on the liability of the parties for failing to comply with the terms of the contract, including the conditions of termination. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 draft law requires food sellers to carry out educational and information campaigns in commercial units to prevent food waste for not less than 2 weeks in a calendar year. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 5th draft law provides for an obligation for food sellers to pay food waste fees. Such a fee would be determined by multiplying the unit rate by the weight of the food wasted. The funds from the fees would be transferred to non-governmental organisations with which sellers are to conclude contracts for the free transfer of food for social purposes. It was accepted that the fee was not charged from 10% the weight of the food wasted. Art. 6 of the draft law provides that the funds derived from the fee may be used by the non-governmental organisation exclusively for the performance of public tasks and for the payment of administrative costs. These organisations would be required to provide the food vendor with written information on the use of the funds derived from the fee. Art. It concerns the imposition of fines for failure to comply with the law. It shall be imposed in the form of an individual administrative act for breach of the applicable law. The competent authority for fine-making will be the voivodship inspector for commercial inspection, competent for the place where the food seller conducts food sales activities. The proceeds of the fines will constitute revenue of the State budget. Art. 11 additionally imposes obligations on voivodship commercial inspection inspectors. They will be competent to control the conclusion of contracts between food sellers and non-governmental organisations and to comply with the obligation to pay a fee by food sellers. According to Art. 12 projects within one year of the entry into force of the Act, only food sellers operating a food business with a retail or wholesale sales area exceeding 400 m2 will be subject to its obligations. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 the proposed regulation provides that the food vendor is required to conclude the first contract for the free transfer of food for social purposes within 5 months of the entry into force of the law. The proposed law is foreseen to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of the provisions relating to the waste levy and the provisions on administrative fines to enter into force on the first day of the sixth month following the month of publication of the law. The opinions and comments submitted in the framework of the consultation are published on the Senate website. The results of the consultation are presented in the impact assessment. This proposal does not require the adoption of implementing acts and the subject matter of the proposed regulation is not contrary to European Union law. Yes, in such a very general outline, there is a bill. I would also like to point out that the four meetings of the Joint Committees that took place were multi-hour meetings, which were essentially conference-like, where all parties could express themselves precisely and be heard. After the first 3 meetings of the committee, we took into account a number of amendments which were proposed by representatives of both ministries and social and trade parties. The project has therefore changed considerably following the discussions that the committees have conducted and is certainly a more mature project. Following the support of the project on 18 December by the joint committees, we re-applyed to all stakeholders, i.e. ministries and representatives of trade and NGOs, for opinions. In my opinion, the opinions relating to the updated draft I have presented are very mature and contain a number of proposals for amendments that this proposal can improve. I think we're in a good position because this isn't the end of the bill and there's no rush. The whole legislative process is ahead of us. If we support the project, which I believe, then three readings will take place in the Sejm, and then the bill will go to the Senate. And it can be a very mature document. I know that a number of proposals presented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Finance will be submitted during the discussion. These will be proposals for amendments to be discussed by committees and possible introductions. As their importance is significant, I will not propose that the draft be examined at this Senate meeting at third reading and that the vote be put to the vote. I propose that a vote be held at the next Senate meeting on this issue, because it is worth considering all the proposals that will be tabled today. This is important because of the maturity of this document. It should also be said that we do not have many experiences in this area, both Polish and European. In countries where there are laws on food not wasted, and there are several... These are solutions adopted in recent years. Experience is very small. Recently, the Czech Republic has adopted a very restrictive law in this area, much more restrictive than what we propose there are very large penalties. I think it's going to be some experience and something that should draw our attention. We should be interested in what the effects of such legislation will be. There's a problem here. We are aware that you can make mistakes in an area where you don't have much experience. That is why we have taken our time to work on the proposed solutions and these solutions have not been submitted to the High House before. The Commissions met repeatedly and paid much attention to the views of the government and other partners, namely trade representatives and food banks. I remember from the discussion that we all care about being in our country. as little food wasting as possible and to implement the European Union Directive, which says that 50% will be reduced by 2025. the amount of food wasted. There's a huge task ahead of us. We are aware that we only touch the trade sector, where food waste is in some way the smallest, because the most food is wasted in households. Improving the situation in this area will serve some of the solutions that will be proposed to take into account the issue of food waste and the rational use of food, which is a matter of raising the youngest generations. And for the problem to be seen by resorts such as the resort of the environment. There will be proposals for provisions in this area. The problem is really big. We're aware of that. During committee meetings, there were apparent differences in views as to the direction in which these solutions should go: whether in such a way as to encourage trade, first of all, to try to waste as little food as possible, or in such a way that there are legal obligations, including legal restrictions, but excessive Because the legal solutions proposed here at the moment cannot be compared e.g. with Czech solutions, which are very restrictive, or with solutions in many other countries. The idea is to create a certain relationship between trade and non-governmental organisations, as little conflict as possible, so that all highly collegiate parties benefit from this. The point is that trade has to destroy as little food as possible. - Which, of course, causes costs. and non-governmental organisations that deal with or will distribute the obtained food as effectively and kindly as possible have cooperated with trade, including on food-free campaigns, including education and a number of other issues. Thank you for your attention. Maybe so much to present the work of the committee and the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u36	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Antoni Szymanski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Augustine has come forward. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u37	Mr President, I would like to ask, but also with the hope that this will sound good... You said that incentives in the form of tax deductions, VAT, deductions from the tax base, the possibility of avoiding rendering charges are already in place. So this part works. Is it true that even though food supplies from commercial networks have increased 3.5 times, we still recover only 4.5 thousand tons of food from 450 thousand tons, despite these incentives? That's my first question. Two. After all, there's always something wasted on commercial networks. It's important that the bill takes this into account. How does she regulate it? For what food pool is there no charge, no penalty?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u38	I would like to say that, in both the written opinions that we have received and in the opinions expressed at committee meetings, no one has depreciated those solutions which are currently in operation with regard to producers, trade and tax write-offs. Everybody's paying attention. If I remember these discussions well That these rules are very important and that they should remain. In addition, I would like to point out that we are saying in this draft law that this will apply in the first phase of stores with an area of more than 400 m2 and then of an area of more than 250 m2. So this doesn't include a huge number of stores that have an area of less than 250 m2. At the same time, we encourage these shops not to waste food, if they have it, and to cooperate with various organizations in their capacity to pass it on to them. These smaller shops also have the option of tax write-offs. So that we don't include all of them... But we are also aware that the organization of this for all the stores that have food would simply be completely unrealistic, because there are not so many NGOs. Taking food from such small shops and organising it on a national scale would be very difficult. Therefore, we focus primarily on large commercial networks. I stress that these provisions are very important. They are not violated, they should be respected, but they are certainly insufficient. The senator was talking about certain numbers. Of course, they were sitting in committee, and they indicate that we should make a move in this direction. At the same time... I am warning you here, because you will probably ask why, therefore, trade, in which this food waste is the least, also from the point of view of households... We are aware that if we carry out certain activities here, rationalize in this area, these actions, to be said rudely, will spread to other spheres of life. It will also be educational activities, and not only because of the rules that are in this law. The point is that we create a culture of our daily life, and we would like to see as little food wasted in this everyday life as possible. The creation of this culture is also served by this debate today. It took place at committee meetings as well as now; it is public In which we point to this, I believe, unconscionable problem. 'Cause I think there's not a lot of people who realize every day that each one of us It can be said that from an obsessive to an elderly person, it wastes more than 200 kg of food per year and that it has its environmental, environmental, energy, ethical consequences, etc. For this reason, it is worth discussing, and it is worth considering provisions that improve the situation in this area. Many countries are working on such regulations. It can also be said that if we delay work on this issue, then the expectations of the European Union... We know that we were also informed during committee meetings. That these expectations will take the form of law. I think we are ripening to anticipate certain situations when it comes to expectations from the structures of the European Union. I'm part of the expectation that regulations are in this sphere. And they were as correct as possible, and at the same time benevolent and for trade, and for non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u39	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u40	I would like to thank Mr Szymanski and Senator Augustine for limping this Samaritan stone in order to take the matter into the form of a bill. With these thanks, I notice. And that's the first question. There is no clear position of the government. It was not only during the work of the committee, which I consider to be a serious deficiency, but also during various consultations, e.g. in an innovative economy institute, where 40 Samaritan stakeholders met. And I'm asking if there's a position like that. During the long debate there were various voices from the government, sometimes of fundamental importance, as regards the definition of government responsibilities in this matter, although government responsibilities are clearly included in this project. That's the first question. And the other. I'm not hiding that I'm a polemitist about this bill, and that's because it has prescriptive elements in it. So it's like you're going away, and you're quitting, and I'm not accidentally using the word "Samaritan" out of goodwill to regulate with orders, penalties, reports, and maybe other things. And as the marshal says... Yesterday he used the word "infamia" that they weren't good people... The question is whether you, Mr President, provide for such an organisation of work to change this philosophy, or at least to deprive it of its prescriptive character and restore the Samaritans.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u41	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were two issues here: the participation of government representatives in the work on this law and the position of the government. There is also a third issue concerning the Samaritan or prescriptive nature of the law. Government and representatives of many ministries participated in all committee meetings, spoke very extensively And with great kindness. In this regard, they stressed that the legal provisions in this case should be supplemented by new solutions, as well as proposals for legal changes which should be included in such a law. Many of these proposals have been accepted by the High Commissions. I think that the amendments that will be tabled today will also include other proposals contained in such very mature and very important letters submitted to the committees following the adoption of the draft by the committees on 18 December. So that in my opinion the participation of both the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Family, the Ministry of the Environment and other resorts was actually and very kind, and very important, and very active. I think the government's position will only appear after the High House has adopted the project. Because it's a senate project, a group project... [[In the Seym.]] ...Senators And that it will appear in the Sejm, during the work of the Sejm. Today maybe the ministers present would like to present their position, but it will probably not be the government's position, but it will be an opinion on what the committees have prepared at the moment. But it would be, Mr. Senator, in my opinion, excessive expectation. At this stage, the government should present its opinion. And as for the mature project adopted by the Senate, I'm sure the government will take a stand on that. And now the last question is whether we should rely only on goodwill. After all, the tax write-downs and tax incentives themselves and the fact that it affects the state budget less is also a delicate legal incentive, isn't it? Senator Rulewski, of course, consistently presents this position, also during the committee's work. I'm very close to you personally. But that's just an opinion. If this were to be followed by concrete amendments and a proposal of such a law that would affect the fact that tons of wasted food would appear in food banks, perhaps committees would move towards this philosophy. But I think that also because of the senator's opinion, these solutions are not very restrictive. Compared to other countries, this restraint is really very low. It is difficult to even say that this is about restrictions, but we are aware that if trade does not waste food, it does not have to pay for its destruction, which is also expensive and will become more expensive. Right? That's a benefit, too. I would like to say in general that we should still treat these various actors as very important and ensure that these solutions are not treated by trade or by NGOs as conflicting. At committee meetings, the representatives of the trade networks have already presented their previous cooperation, appreciated their cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Of course, the voices were different, but there were no protests or such voices: we object because these regulations are excessive and this will make our activities difficult. There were no voices like that. Rather, there were voices: take into account the different facts, and we are ready to adapt, because we understand the need, and indeed we would like wasted food to be as little as possible. So that I think that we should keep this kindness from the various actors and not exaggerate in these solutions. Hence, among others. The 400 m in the first phase. The point is that it should not be immediately introduced into these smaller shops, but in order to gain some experience, because they are both parties, that is, organizations and trade, need to learn this, and the point is that there is some mildness in these regulations. So you can say yes: everything ahead of us. If there are better solutions in the Seym, we'll probably be open because no one ideologically has any problem with these regulations. We should be open, but we are also aware that the rules are not perfect, that they need to be improved. The happiness of this proposed law is that the whole legislative road ahead of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u43	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, here's my question: how much is this bill in your judgment mandatory? I mean, it creates some kind of mechanism of delicate persuasion, but it is consistent in this delicate persuasion. [[Mr. Senator, she's...]] Second question. Whether the law specifies exactly what kind of food it will be subject to, i.e. are there certain expiry dates for the products to be transmitted and is there a specific procedure? Why am I asking this? Well, I'm asking for a simple reason. The aim is to make this system transparent and transparent to the maximum, so that there are no situations that give rise to some kind of tax doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u45	It's not just here, Mr. Senator, it's about not raising any doubts about the tax nature, and it's about transparency, but it's about food safety. That is to say, there can be no food that can raise doubts about health, a food that could have negative health effects. And this is obviously included in the definitions, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 is very precise. At the same time, I am aware that the Ministry of Agriculture in the last opinion proposes even more clarification of this vocabulary, e.g. to the extent you're asking. So I stress: this food cannot be food that raises doubts in terms of health, in terms of food value. This must be wholesome food, which for example. for the end of its term of validity, no one will buy it anymore, but it can still be developed. This is the first case. And case number two, basic. Is there a system? Yeah, there's a system. First, in the first period following the introduction of the law, it will refer to large-scale shops, i.e. over 400 m2, and then to shops with a slightly smaller area, i.e. 250 m2 of this food, contracts, inspections, possible penalties. So that without the system, this legal solution wouldn't make sense. So she creates a system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u46	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I have reservations about the definition in the article. Point 2 (3). These reservations are then transferred to the article. 12, where I think it's like repeating the same mistake. Namely, I'm going to read this definition of leaving things that I don't think are important. Who is the food salesman? How is this to be understood? This is the food business operator for the sale of food in the unit... And here it's all clear. And then, either retail or wholesale units with a sales area of more than 250 m2 each. What does that mean? How do I understand this definition? The seller will have 10 stores with an area of 300 m2 each It's okay, it's a salesman. But if he adds, I'm sorry, a henhouse or a kiosk of 10 m2 will stop being a salesman, because each of these units must be at least 250 m2. I would propose to give up both in this provision and in the transitional provision of this term "each." Then it will be clear that whoever has at least one store of 250 m2 becomes a salesman. I don't know if I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u48	Very bright. And I think that's also what this definition is talking about. I don't know if it's okay for us to get into such very detailed matters today and pay attention to one word. I stress that we are at such a stage that if the Senate adopts this draft law at the next sitting, then it will be possible to crawl it at the stage and seymous and senate. And then it would be worth it for us to get to the point. As far as the food seller is concerned, I have a proposal for a definition which the Ministry of Agriculture has proposed as different after the adoption of the one which you have read. And I think she's better. I do not want to present it at the moment, because it is one of many solutions, but I know that it will also be proposed as a proposal to amend this bill. So thank you for your attention. We should take all of this into account as joint committees and make the law as mature as possible. There will certainly be a lot of comments on it, because, as I emphasized in my first speech, this is a new area in which we have no experience from previous years. So I'm sure there'll be a lot of comments. This debate, which is currently being held, is also very important because we want this legislation to be as mature as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u49	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question of nature... Well, there's a pool of this food that may, under this bill we're proposing, be used as support for solidarity. My question is this... Because I understand that these organisations, these foundations, can deal with this as legitimate entities that are registered, but I do not know whether the state within the framework of the work on this law has examined whether the potential of these organisations is sufficient or whether they are able to manage such a huge amount of food in an appropriate manner. Are they able to absorb it? Well, that's probably going to be hundreds of tons of food a month. It's hard to say, I don't have that imagination, but even from the population. Poland can be estimated how much of this food we are talking about here. And that's the first question: can these organizations carry it? And as for the second question, I'd be the one who's still on the subject of shelf life. Well, if the product says he's important to, I don't know, March 15 On yogurt e.g. It could be written like that. Is it March 16th... Maybe his qualities aren't lost yet, because I'm assuming there's a safety margin. Well, that's probably what this standard is designed to determine the durability of a given product, but I don't know if it's specified that this yogurt, let's say, on March 18th, will still be fit for consumption. This brings about certain, I'd say, technical problems with the delivery of this food, because these organizations also need some time to deliver it to their subjects. Was this aspect examined during the committee's work or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u51	I'll start with the second question. Of course he's been tested. This is a fundamental, fundamental matter. Food for social purposes is foodstuffs within the meaning of Article. 2 of Regulation No 178/2002 which complies with the requirements of food law set out in that Regulation but which are not intended for sale, in particular due to defects in the appearance or packaging of those foodstuffs. Of course, in these regulations, which I mentioned here, this is very specific. It's in that definition in the article. 2. Predicted. As to whether we have full knowledge of whether NGOs are prepared to distribute more food than before, many of these organisations, among others, were represented at committee meetings. Caritas Poland and food banks, which claimed that they could certainly take over and distribute more of these materials, foodstuffs. This was also confirmed by the representatives of the ministries who worked with various organisations. Of course, we do not know exactly how this will work in different regions, because there are such regions, for example. Warsaw or Gdansk, where food banks are very strong, but there are also those where these food banks are weaker, and this also needs to be taken into account. We are also aware that if there is such an opportunity, if there are shops that will be ready to give food on the basis of the provisions of this Law, new organisations will also appear. I am convinced that the network of organisations that will deal with food care and distribution will be greatly strengthened. This will certainly result in this situation, among other things. the reason at the first stage of this law we are only talking about actually large shops, with an area of more than 400 m2, which is not less than 50% the land is used for the sale of food. Because it has to be done in stages to adapt on the other side as well... to take into account the organisation's capabilities and at the same time to learn some cooperation. We know that this is a difficult obligation, these organisations must have transport, they must have places where the food will be located, often food that must be stored in refrigerators, etc. All this will require, well, a very good level of storage of this food. This is not an easy problem, so we do it all without haste, we do it in stages. I think that's the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u52	You're asking Senator Mammets a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have the following question. Today, markets are easier and more favorable It is more beneficial that it is the most important thing to dispose of food in its own way. I don't think there's any way at the moment that the market would have obliged the discount to transfer this food to the food banks. There isn't, is there? And now... I've been talking to a few owners. I was just asking them why they let such waste. And they simply said that if there were to be rules that would entail lower costs than disposal, they would certainly adapt to it, but they do not see this possibility at present. And that's why I have a question: did you take into account the possibility that in some way... you might not force the owners of the markets, but create for them such conditions that they didn't have to calculate whether it was worth it or not, just handing over the food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u54	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that's exactly what it's all about. If they do not deliver food and it will be disposed of, they must pay for the disposal and they must pay 10 gr for each spent kilogram. If they transfer this food to a food bank, they will have no disposal costs and this will be a more favourable situation for them. [[And they'll still have deductions.]] And they'll have tax deductions. [[Tax deduction, yes, sir.]] So that it would be more beneficial... We're just creating... And what we're doing is related to these tax deductions, because it's kind of a double benefit from not getting rid of food. Of course, we are also aware that there will never be such a situation that food will not be disposed of at all. There's always gonna be a percentage. But it's about making such regulations so that the seller knows that not only for moral reasons and not just for the sake of the Samaritan attitude... but that it will also be profitable for him to deliver food to a non-governmental organization. And... [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u55	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u56	Here, of course, it immediately raises the question that you asked Senator Jackowski: will charity organizations, food banks be able to say, rewrite? And I have one more question. 'Cause I think you're a market maker. That's what they told me. They'll have a storage obligation that they can't afford. 'Cause there's a change of pace in the markets. Today's the decision. Tomorrow there's another product. And now if no one's picking up that food, then... And they may charge the legislator with the fact that he creates such adverse conditions for them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u57	Well, it seems those proposals that are in the bill prevent something like that. But what you're talking about is how efficient this whole system must be. It must be a very efficient system, because there are many foods that in a very short time... I know from food banks that the biggest problem is bread. Various foods are doing well, but the biggest problem is bread, which very quickly begins to be treated as old. Of course, this problem exists and the system must be very efficient. And the legislator has to take that into account. We've considered it, and if we've considered it not entirely and imperfectly, then we still have time to refine it all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u58	No further questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? We have Mr Jacek Bogucki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. [[Senator Rulewski is the first, but he's not...]] Senator Rulewski is registered, but he's absent. Another one is Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr Gogach is not here, and I would like to begin by thanking Senator Szymański, who spoke on behalf of the applicants, and for the senators of the presidents, Senator Gogach and Senator Duda, for having organised this work so that at every stage, and there were five sittings, we could explain and draw closer to a good solution. I wholeheartedly support this bill and urge the senators to join this still small club of European countries that have regulated this matter comprehensively. I want to remind you. I'm looking at some senators who've been involved in this. That we as Senate are actually continuing our work. The first law concerned the encouragement that was asked here. They asked if she was or not. It concerned food producers and allowed to deduct previously charged VAT and to include this donation in the cost of obtaining income and, of course, save on disposal. So you could say that these were 3 cumulative incentives. Because this worked out, two years later the regulations came into force, which included distributors, i.e. shopping networks, all shops, all of them, all of them. And you could say that today, if there are such situations as Senator Mammoths were talking about here, it would appear more so, Mr. Senator, please pay attention to how you will be in contact with these people. In the absence of any knowledge that these deductions can be applied. This is a process. After the introduction of these tax rules, there was initially no traffic. It seemed that these provisions were insignificant both for manufacturers and distributors. Today we see that three and a half times the food pool passed only to food banks, and yet this pot is probably bigger, because other organizations are also receiving this food. So let's not worry about whether or not we're going to threaten the company's condition in any way. No, thanks to this law, many more companies will benefit from tax deductions. You could say this: bring the fee to zero, making sure that the food is not wasted. Of course, this does not apply to situations where she can still be wasted. Fresh fish, fresh meat, easily spoiled vegetables and fruit will fit in this margin of 10% from which no fee shall be charged. I therefore strongly encourage you to support this law. We will make a number of amendments, also to take into account the expectations of both food distributors and all those who submitted comments, above all resorts, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of the Environment, UOKiK, Trade Inspection, etc. We tried to take them into account and take them into account in the form of amendments. We're prepared. There's gonna be a lot of adjustments. I am pleased that we will not be voting on this at this meeting yet, because we will have a chance once again, together with our partners, to discuss everything during the committee meeting. It would be all there, ladies and gentlemen. We've been working over the divisions for the third term. This time we are closing the issue of building a food protection system against waste. We provide food security with this bill, we ensure that the recipient... One of the amendments will concern the extension of the catalogue of organisations that will receive food, not only for all NGOs, but also... There was a particular emphasis on this and Caritas Poland requested it. The point is to include something in the Public Benefit Act. The Ministry of Agriculture, if I remember correctly, was asking for this, too. It is important that ecclesiastical organizations can also receive food. It is often the case that in the municipality there are some small discount which has more than 400 m2 there are no other organizations than Caritas And that he could help with the development of food. It's a possibility that's gonna be created. Among the amendments I have tabled will be such that, 18 months after the entry into force of the Act, we will get an assessment of its functioning from the environmental department, i.e. before we move on to the second stage. Because we're prolonging the first stage. It will last not a year, but two years. After a year and a half, the High House will receive a report, as I will say, and to what extent it has been successful. And then we're gonna wonder what we can fix before we take the next step, which means we're gonna have a little smaller stores covered by the law. Quite small shops, as Mr Szymański said, we are not able to enter into the bill because it is difficult to imagine that organizations will drive after picking up 1, 2 or 3 kg of food. However, these shops can also try to manage food and fight for tax deductions, because this is the one that is addressed to everyone. If tax deductions are to be applied, it is simply necessary to provide food to public benefit organisations. It's worth raising this case. Why would that be? Because public benefit organisations must have full accounting. If they have such accounting, the Ministry of Finance may examine whether there is any abuse. And I would like to inform you that the numerous checks that have been carried out have shown no shortcomings in this respect. Finally, the Law and Justice are consistent in this matter. I'd even say the same level as the Platform used to be. You submitted a draft law on this matter in your previous term of office. This is the continuation of those actions. It is a good thing that there is a significant relaxation of the provisions that were previously proposed. The ones that were proposed in the previous term... I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. ... They were much more restrictive. They were similar to the Czech legislation. Today, the Czechs are having trouble with their bill because, yes, I would say, they tightened the screw that NGOs are unable to pick up food. We do it carefully, step by step. And I encourage: let's take another step, let's be in favour of not wasting food, at least not as much as we've done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I declare recess until 12:30. During the break there will be an opening of the exhibition "Always faithful to Poland" devoted to the history of the Polish Union in Germany. I invite you senators to participate in this exhibition. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 55 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on combating food waste. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Kobiak. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Voice from the room: What about the vote?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We're talking about the Food Waste Act, but we're really focusing on how to distribute this food that's not going to be sold in stores. One might wonder if it's worth thinking about what to do not to produce so much food, because if we can't sell it, maybe we have overproduction. You could see if there were any mechanisms that could reduce this overproduction. I understand that shops selling e.g. With bread, yogurt, they prefer five loaves of bread or five yogurts to be wasted, which is to say it's over, rather than one to be missed, because that would be bad for the store. But think about what happens to the huge number of groceries that are displayed for certain holidays. Now we're going to have Easter, e.g. hares, eggs, chocolate baskets, which two days before Christmas are on the shelves, and after Christmas they disappear immediately because the stores are withdrawing it. It's not a 5% issue. or 10% surplus goods which the network has ordered. I know this industry and I can say with all responsibility that these are often all tire of sweets withdrawn from shops. But they're not being dealt and they can't be dealt. Because in Poland we have the domination of shops over producers, not only shops, but also networks conclude a contract that benefits each other, according to which all Christmas returns go back to the producer, whether it is 20, 30 or 40%. And often there are so many. Anyway, after Christmas, they're packed in a car and they're going back to the manufacturer. You could say, and why does the producer agree to a contract that indicates that he can be returned to 20/30% of the goods? Unfortunately, as I said, we have the domination of the network, not the producers, and the manufacturer has only this option: either agree to it or not trade with the network. And because all networks have such records, in fact every manufacturer who wants to exist on the market must agree to the conditions of the network. With a large network there's no discussion about the deal, the deal gets in and either you sign it or you don't. I don't want to mention the names of these networks because it might be a form of advertising, but believe me, I have experience in this matter. The mention that you would like to change something in this agreement causes you to fall out of the market. It's a dictation. The issue is quite questionable from the tax side, because if we're dealing with a situation where the network can return part of the product, then it's a question of whether it's sales or whether it's a commission. I think it's a commission. The sale, however, is normal, as on the invoice... So normally, as a sale, not as a commission... This is questionable. Probably for many producers, especially smaller ones, it would be salvageable if this law states that contracts must not be concluded where it is assumed in advance that the seller is entitled to return to the producer any quantity of goods. It is so uninteresting that, in fact, it appears from the sanitary regulations that the goods returned from the store to the manufacturer cannot enter the market again and cannot be distributed, the manufacturer can only dispose of it. Imagine a tira chocolate that goes into disposal. You can't give this to kids, you can't give it to adults because the rules forbid it. And rightfully, because if something happened on the shelf, he had the right to touch it every customer, healthy or sick, and it goes back to the producer, then it doesn't matter what it does. Therefore, my point is that this should be done, such a change would protect smaller producers, but also guarantee some sanitary caution. Is this really about giving out food, or is it neutral for an average customer? Well, I say that the customer will also pay for those products that will be distributed or disposed of. No company, no store network will allow itself in a situation where they sell 90%. Products and 10% transfer or dispose of those 10% caused a loss that would disturb the rhythm of all sales. Therefore, both the manufacturer and the trader of the unsold goods are included in the price, which is actually the customer will pay for the goods that will later be disposed of. If this were not the case, then, I understand, the price of goods could be reduced quietly, and this is a very pro-consumer action. Hence my comment and such a request to the authors of this law: try to look at it not only in such a way that what to do with unsold goods, but also how to make these unsold goods as little as possible. Try also to look at small and medium-sized producers who, acting under the dictatorship of large networks, have to agree to return contracts up to 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u63	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Jan Rulewski. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My name was called, but in a good, in my opinion, company and context, it is that I took part not only in a meeting at the committee, but also in a meeting at the institute that devoted the seminary. With some 40 suppliers and participants Food security missions, that's what I call it. Unfortunately, there was no representative of the government that these organizations were expecting. My share is not pleasant, I'll admit it immediately. Also, the amendments I make are not lightly digestible, like even the food we are talking about here. In my questions, I have already highlighted my difference of opinion on this subject. Either we accept the Samaritan pose in this bill, but the true Samaritan pose, which in the will parable also gave a foodstuff, or As in this Act, we will introduce a prerogative system so as not to say 'criminal'. About food, which has not only commercial value, not only turnover value, but also value, I would say Sentimental-philosophical... I just think her guardian should be a Samaritan. That is, the good will of those who eat this food, i.e. The raw materials prepare, process and eventually turn, sell and consume... This is, among other things, the case. the position of the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation. I will admit that it has not presented a legislative proposal, but its vision, as have I. Mr. Senator told me I only have a vision, and I don't have a project ready. Today, I'm trying to put this vision on paper and make adjustments. There are several prescriptive, even mandatory elements in this law. Well, the first one is a commitment. All those who are already demonstrating the Samaritan will and passing food to food banks, other organizations or simply ordinary consumers... The obligation to conclude a contract has been entered into. When this does not happen, a penalty of PLN 5,000 will be imposed on them. The Law does not explain how many times such punishment can be imposed, or only once, or every year, or maybe even more often. But, contrary to legal tradition, he punishes everyone equally. 5 thousand zlotys of punishment for those who delivered 4/5 of this food, and 1/5 can... [[That's 2/3, Jan.]] Right? For once, you agree with me. And for those who ignore this statutory duty at all. Come on. It imposes an obligation on these suppliers to campaign, releasing the public, namely NGOs, from this obligation, and I think that they could be carried out from those amounts that I am about to talk about. The law imposes In addition to penalties and obligations on contracts An additional fee. Small, I admit. Senator Augustine says 10 gr from 1 kg. It has been calculated that this could be a total of PLN 250,000 today. Well, the question is, is there any point in imposing small penalties that aren't going to have an output value or even bring losses? Because imposing penalties is also an expensive process. And that 250 thousand zloty could get blurry, it could be drowned in the cost of proceedings. Well, of course, it is well thought that this money should be returned to these NGOs, perhaps to build infrastructure. It's just that for 250 thousand zlotys across the country. 'Cause that's the kind of income that's supposed to come out of these accounts... or the fees, that's what it's called. The infrastructure will not be built. Maybe one small warehouse, maybe a big one. And, of course, these Samaritans today say: why should it incriminate the budget? But as we speak of the budget... We are in a Polish country, and, unfortunately, like a Polish country, three ministries that took part in... I will not say that you have told Mr Szymański that they have participated, but they have not presented constructive conclusions or solutions. I will say more, there is not even an opinion on this task until today. I am no longer talking about the government's position, but there is not even a clear opinion, because three ministries, health, environmental protection and agriculture, had different opinions on this subject, although they were constructive. It started with what this food is, how to define it. Because if there's no definition, you don't know who to pass the food to and how to value it, to write it off, to deduct it from the tax base and VAT base. Indeed, there is confusion here because we are talking about the date of fitness and minimum durability. Mr Szymanski, Mr Augustine and I understand these slogans, but ordinary people get lost in it. They get lost in it. And then Senator Kobiak, who came out in the economy, says that, well, good chocolate is returned and there's a question... And he claims that she's returned to the manufacturer only because of a lack of some sort of capacity... which is the lack of the seller's operationality, or because of defective contracts or unfair, asymmetric contracts. And prerogative... So there's no... I mean. there are not enough instruments to include in this chain of production, storage and marketing, and food consumption. There's not enough incentive. Campaigns and tax write-offs It's not enough, really. And, of course, there is a question that organizations are raising, which is that this process is just the end of the system, where, in fact, there are losses of 5%. Well, we're never gonna reduce that loss to zero, 'cause there's always a bottle of vinegar falling, crashing, and no one's gonna break it. He won't be able to collect any more, although these losses need to be minimized. I'm saying trade at all. Even Senator Kobiak said that. It is very predictable, very oppressive in order to sell everything at the right time and at the right price, not to say, for the benefit of itself. Therefore, I am saying that here the process of optimization of their activities is highly developed, although I do not exclude, as evidenced by initiatives of different networks, so that some of this food can be transmitted because, as Senator Kobiak said, the surplus that is necessary to maintain the continuity of sales. What am I proposing? After Senator Szymanski's speech, I withdraw the motion to reject this bill because of faulty axiology and start working... [[Applause]] But if my opinion was not obeyed, because I am indeed in a clear minority, I suggest... but I make a condition to eliminate all orders and sanctions to adopt the Samaritan model, and then... [[Voice from the room: Why Samaritan?]] Why Samaritan? Because it's true, there he was, let's say, Christ and the woman... So he was, let's face it, order. But if there are tons, hundreds of thousands of tons of food, thousands of suppliers and, I hope, thousands of consumers of this food, then there must be some order, and if there is order, then there must be a law, and as a law, I repeat, not so much a commanding, but a regulating trade, creating conditions for smooth circulation. Why? So that the second time this food passed on by the sellers wouldn't be destroyed. Because then she would be destroying herself because there are no warehouses to store it, no people to distribute it, and so on. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] And the last sentence, not to speak again for five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Europe is concerned... Because Mr Szymanski called for it. She has indeed developed the programme by 2030 to halve its losses in this respect. And I, Mr President, would like to persuade you, because you have influence in the government and it is very strong that the government presents such a programme as a programme accompanying the law, so that there is no argument that we are just dealing with the tip rather than the body. Thank you, and I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Five minutes, right? This is your second speech? [[Yes. I think it's shorter.]] Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, it's nice to see Senator Rulewski as the defender of entrepreneurs, especially those who are wasting food. However, it cannot be overlooked that this is one of the 3 laws that regulate this area. It's kind of like a lockdown. 2 Laws focus entirely on incentives: deduction of VAT, inclusion in costs and non-payment of costs relating to disposal. So three kinds of profits. More and more markets, entire networks that decide to work with NGOs and provide food. But to encourage this, Mr. Senator, I stress: we are encouraging this law. Because no one has to pay a penny if they give food to organizations. Not a penny. It's not like anybody's going to get punished. If someone couldn't sign, not because of his own fault, the contract, he doesn't pay any penalty. That's why I think this bill is balanced. That is why we have worked so long to find this modus vivendi and to add to this catalogue of incentives to the previous commitment, which will allow NGOs to raise funds for infrastructure. And the last sentence. On the one hand, it cannot be criticised that this fee will raise so little and on the other hand say that organisations will have little money to enrich the infrastructure. We have tried to calculate this fee so that slow progress can be made in this respect. Besides, we're trying to get in government programs. And that's what's in the amendment. There has been an opportunity for NGOs to apply for money from the environmental fund. So that they can, in light of what the senator rightly picked up as a weakness of the organization... so that we can change it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Robert Mammothov made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by the senators: Kazimierz Kleina, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Andrzej Kaminski, Antoni Szymański, Mieczysław Augustyn, Jerzy Czerwiński and Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. The text of the Act is contained in print No 731 and the report of the Commission In print No 731 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The day before yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was held, which relied on the law adopted in the Sejm, the law adopted by the Sejm following the initiative and actually the implementation of the Senate resolution. The bill of the Senate, I remind you, was intended to allow mothers of children, or actually children born under conditions, in short, to grant the right to apply for annulment of decisions concerning these children. Because they were innocent. Who were in prison next to their mother. And in the wake of this, if the court so decides, it is possible to grant such a child compensation and compensation or to treat it separately. As a result, I would say that there is some confusion in this bill that the Senate added, as it were, automatically, that the powers to declare these judgments invalid and, of course, the right to claim compensation and redress should be granted to all those who, on the basis of the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those who were oppressed, had the right to appear, just by virtue of that Act... This applies to all of these, I would say, the conditions set out in the Act on the recognition of those judgments as invalid. During the committee meeting, amendments were tabled and I do not hide that I messed up again. The idea was that in this first amendment, which was agreed both here, in the Senate and in the Seym, to extend the subjective scope to those children who, by reason of - To stay in this convention. They couldn't have had parental custody. The fact that her mother couldn't take care of her daughter or her son in prison is clear. This child may have been in a neighboring building, but it is known that the parental authority was limited. This amendment, which I am talking about, may be unclear, so I will allow myself to explain it by limiting myself to what I know, what I have been experiencing, and what we can check out today. Well, for example. During the martial law, there was an internment institution. Sometimes both parents were interned. The most extreme case: minors remained completely unattended. It's not just Jan Rulewski's pride. I don't want to talk here, but maybe I should even... Why don't you ask what names it was about? The underage children of these people were left unattended, not even the closest family members, and I myself, despite the introduction of martial law... As you know, its introduction had signs of violence that prevented normal functioning. Even calling without censorship was not possible. And when it was censorship, it was possible to use this element of breaking up the family. Right? So I propose to extend this to include children who were separated from their parents because of persecution, or in a full way, if two parents were interned, or incompletely, if it was one of the parents. Let us add that some parents were hiding, and their children were under another ward, such as a grandmother. But it was an incomplete process, so to speak. To this we make such an amendment so as not to include the kindness of this law of the family members of such a child, especially since this family is undefined. The point is that these family members, the future spouse, the brother, or anyone else, should not benefit from the kindness of this law. The next amendment is difficult, I do not hide, but it corresponds to the philosophy that passed through the Senate in the previous and present term. We think, I think and this was presented at the committee meeting That the goodness of this law should not include all those who are covered by the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those who are repressed. The main justification is a certain axiology we accepted. The point is that those who are repressed, who are subject to special treatment, should not go beyond the veteran environment, which, as we know, are defined as victims of the most horrible crimes, from exiles, concentration camps to participation in the war, from Ubecki executioners to ordinary arrests. This veterans don't have that... they can use accessories, about 400 PLN in total, and still apply for compensation. Besides, the Polish law, the constitution simply says that today every citizen, if he has suffered a national threat to some extent... The Civil Code says that the citizen can apply for compensation. Of course, the road is stern, because it is first a lawsuit, a trial, and then a possible decision, a court ruling; costs, command, documents somewhere in the wind or destroyed... New legislation creates the conditions for assistance from the IPN, even the possibility to apply. But we think it's that demarcating line of state mercy, I'd say... I'm sorry I'm so abusing the Gospel language today. Well, in the name of certain good principles of social relations, we shouldn't go behind that line. And I propose this statutory passus delete. This does not mean, however, that those who have suffered harm, who may have already existed in the past, and in the number of several thousand have exercised this right, if they have suffered, if there has been a loss in their lives, or something requiring compensation, requiring something called compensation... This institution has been in operation in Poland since 1991 and several thousand people have benefited from it. They have received a benefit which, of course, is not compensation for lost freedom, for suffering, for pain, for harm, for expelling them from the country. These compensations are currently, on average, in the order of PLN 60.70 thousand. This institution will still exist. Then somebody can ask me, "I'm sorry to lecture you like this." Why I'm deleting this. There are other categories of participation in the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and persecuted persons. First of all, it's that someone may have been an opposition activist, but it hasn't been affected. He was a member of the KOR, the KPN, the "Solidarity" suspended or dissolved. Yeah, he was. He took part in demonstrations, paid contributions illegally. Swwank, as it is said, did not bear, but under this law he may apply for compensation. Perhaps the court won't judge... I'd say that's a yes, a reparation... We do not hide that in our thought, consistent here and on the right, and on the left, it was to maintain a certain logic in terms of value of this and in terms of proper honor in today's Polish conditions. And that's because we don't belong to the richest yet. Don't cross a line. Then please, the High House... However, what was the result of the work of the Parliamentary Committee? 'Cause I forgot about that. The President proposed the adoption of a law which came from the Sejm without amendments, so without the ones I was talking about. However, he took care of himself and said that there would still be a need for additional government opinions, which might appear during this meeting. I'm having a technical problem right now because I haven't been able to file yet... And then In particular, it is the Ministry of Finance that made comments not to say that the objections A decision will be taken on the final decision, which the High Chamber is the author of. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. [[Go get...]] [[Corrections? I've got it, I've got it.]] I see you'd like to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. [[I've volunteered before.]] Mr. Senator? [[I'm saved.]] Oh, good. [[Mrs. Marshal... may I, please?]] Well, now that I've given the floor... And then the senator. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I confess, I have listened with disbelief to the report because... I have here in front of me print No. 731 A, which shows that the committee clearly and categorically advocated that the bill should be adopted without amendments. This project came from us, the Senate, and this group you want to skip. I'm telling you, it's clear. We didn't ignore it. The project just went to the Sejm. The Sejm got acquainted with this project and accepted it, and the bill went back to the Senate and you were here without... because the fact that the bill was supposed to go through without any amendments wasn't what you said until the end. And all of your reasoning, or at least half of it, you put it as if to convince the High House that the amendments you are proposing are correct. I understand the first one, you're expanding the subject circle. But I don't understand the other one. Why do you want to take it? Are these personal injuries? Why, despite the fact that the recipe is practically accepted, are you pushing to cut it out at the last stage? Especially since, as I remember, in the previous year, in 2017 the Veterans' Office returned 50 million PLN from the reserve, that is to say, it did not use the reserve. The money is, there are people interested. Let me remind you that in the following article. 8c... It's not like an anti-communist opposition activist or a repressed person gets compensation for being an activist, but clearly for the repression of this activity. She has to show the repression, she has to show the repression. Then why are you gonna make that money? The government's not fucking around, you're fucking around. Sorry about the expression.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u71	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u72	Thank you. I apologize for the logic of my speech, for the fact that what you, Senator Czerwiński, were most interested, I said not at first, but in conclusion. But that's what happens... In the courts, it's different, it starts with a judgment, and then it's justified. In other speeches we talk about the substance first, and then we present the conclusion. But maybe I'll take your advice in the future. You used those words, you asked me why I was pressuring you. Well, I'm not very effective in pushing, since you took the floor and noticed the difference between what the Senate originally presented, what the Sejm had adopted, and what I now tabled in the amendment, which, I repeat, was rejected, with a certain conditional voice. And that's what you understand. And you started by saying you don't understand. Why don't you understand me? Because you probably misread the intention of the High House when it came to working on this law, limited to a few dozen cases, to helping dozens of children who were born in communist captivity, starting in 1956, and for this reason suffered because of lack of proper parental care. Then it was enlarged... I don't know who the author was. This subject circle has been extended to include persons who are included Although, as you can see, in the incomplete part, In the Act on anti-communist opposition activists. In this act we considered that this upper threshold to be accepted in Polish conditions for anti-communist opposition activists, whether they were persecuted or were individuals... To receive, if they occur, status, and consequently the possibility of obtaining an amount of PLN 400, exactly PLN 403 per month and several social benefits. That's what we thought, and that's what happened. Unfortunately, I admit that the process was probably fast and I don't want to say Reinforced persons and anti-communist opposition were added so that they would be entitled to claim compensation by virtue of that law, not necessarily for suffering or harm. It's your question that makes sense and provokes you to answer. Why... Well, first of all, that's what we found in that social agreement in the Senate. Secondly, no one to whom you pay particular attention to opposition activists because you used this term, repressed does not take away the right, does not take away and does not take away the right to act individually for compensation and redress. However, duplication creates some problems, doesn't it? We're actually saying you can, man, woman, ask again for what you could or could have already applied for or applied for. And the question is, what does it mean to be repressed? There is no definition of repression, and this is all the more aggravated by a legal mess. What is repression? Repression can be based on someone's fingertip pointing out: you, man, I remember you, I remember you going to KOR meetings. This is repression. So that it is also for these reasons that should be rejected. But I don't want, I repeat, to impose my will, I just add, not to perform again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u73	Thank you. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the committee's work, because in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, and I think it must have occurred during the expansion of the subjective, increasing the circle entitled to claim compensation... The point is that this power for those repressed and declared as anti-communist opposition activists is clearly extending the subject of the law, leading to some non-compliance with the principles of correct legislation. Was it noticed and considered during the committee's work? I ask because actually the intention and ratio legis of this law were slightly different.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u75	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u76	Thank you. I understood the question. Mr. Senator, unfortunately, this was not defined by the senators or by the legislative department.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u77	I would like to add a second question. Was the work of the committee considered how many persons within this subject area, so estimated, would be entitled to benefit from this claim for compensation for repression and other inconveniences during anti-communist actions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u78	In this narrow range, it was expected to cover between 50 and 80 cases, it would be children, and in the long term based on forecasts or rather estimates of a certain organisation, I apologize that I would not name this organization And the difference in costs, although I don't think costs are the most important thing here, is this: here we have 2.3 million, and here we have 70 million. If I may express my opinion, I would say that I believe that this number will be greater, because compensation is quite serious, as I said, on average, it is 60,000.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u79	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd ask for an application. If possible, of course by the person who owns the data and represents the government How many people have now acquired the status of anti-communist opposition activist and the person being repressed. Because this bill already works, it's not an unknown number. That's one thing. Second, let us remember that not all of these people have suffered harm or harm. And there's some kind of narrowing, because that person has to show that damage or harm. Besides, Mr. Senator Rulewski, I've tried to understand the mode of work on this bill, and I have no doubt about it. My doubts are different. Well, I'm standing you up as a person who rather fights for the rights of those who were wronged at that time. And here you try not to give them those rights. So it surprised me the most, your motivation caused my stupefying, surprised me, not the legislative process, because it's clear how it's going. [[Yes, thank you. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u81	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u82	I think it's right, that's the first part of the question you asked. In order for the government to really clarify these issues concerning financial powers and matters, because during the committee's work it did not have a position, or perhaps even an opinion, to express such, I would say, a loose position or a loose opinion. Senator Mammoths rightly pointed out the need to clarify his position until the vote. Indeed, Senator Czerwinski may be surprised by my behaviour, this reporting, I would say, a guillotine amendment to this bill. But I am fighting not so much for privileges for activists and persecuted people as for some compensation for suffering, and also for those hundreds of thousands of people who fought for Poland, starting with veterans, and ending with those who did it under martial law, to have friendly relations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u83	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I don't see any calls. Thank you very much... [[Senator's voice:]] You're welcome... [[Voice from the room:...Quiet.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u84	Mr. Senator, maybe not directly on this matter we're debating, but on what we've already adopted. Namely, we passed a change saying that the State is responsible not only for the execution of the judgment, but at all for the execution of the judgment. I've been here before, asking what's going on. Has the Seym finally approved this or not? [[Yes... may I?]] Because we're making a decision, and the Sejm is slowing down, and that's a little short...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u85	I'll be honest with you, you're the same... Senator, you are as consistent as Senator Czerwiński, but I think you are absolutely right, at least in procedural terms. I am indeed a representative of the Senate on this bill, and I am running for President of the Parliament's Justice Committee. I think that's his name. Piotrowicz about the law already adopted by the subcommittee on what you were talking about, i.e. that what produced other effects in connection with communist slavery would be possible to prosecute. Unfortunately, there's no positive answer. I hope that we will now go to Mr.Piotrowicz and at least during this term we will finalize this resolution of the Senate, which you have also sought.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u86	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? There isn't. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the Senate, but we have a representative of the government, Minister Łukasz Piebiak of the Ministry of Justice. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Mrs Marshal, if not necessary, then no.]] Thank you very much. Perhaps there will be questions... There are questions. Good. [[After Rulevski take the floor...]] [[Yes, but we owe Mr. Senator Czerwinski an answer because I didn't answer his question...]] I understand. I understand. I'm sure the senator will repeat that question again. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I'm sure there will be questions. We already know that. You're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u87	Yes, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you. [[Then you're Senator Rybicki, right?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] High Izbo, Minister, question one. How many people have at the moment confirmed the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person? Two. What resources were collected in the special reserve in the previous year for such persons? How many have been used and how many have been returned to the budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u88	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I am only able to answer one question from Senator Czerwinski, for which I apologize. I just don't have the data. With regard to the final part, i.e. the issue of the special-purpose reserve and its use, it is a pity that there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance with us, because he would probably be able to help us. As far as the number of people who meet this definition is concerned, now, according to the data I have, there are more than 7 000 of them. The growth rate is roughly at the level of... In recent months there have been 700 and 800 applications per month. There were 800 applications in February, and March has not yet ended. How much will it be in the future? It'll probably depend on the fate of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin. The senator signed up for the discussion. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[He's out.]] There's no senator. I'll close the discussion in a minute. I thought you might be able to get into the O.R. in time. But since the senator isn't here... Has anyone made a speech for the record? [[Yes, Robert Mammoth.]] Senator Robert Mamątow made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. Legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Robert Mamytkow. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the matter under consideration... Oh, I'm sorry. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No. Thank you.]] I see. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 2:30 p.m. [[Just a moment, Mrs. Marshal...]] Wait a minute, or there'll be messages. Hold on, ladies and gentlemen. Please stop for a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u91	Announcement, announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 23 to 14 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u92	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting will take place on 14, 15 and 16 March 2018. The agenda for this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 751. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs adopted unanimously the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees at its meeting on 6 March. I'm gonna read this project. - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismiss Senator Margareta Budner from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. §3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I recommend that the High House adopt a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for the Homeless, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and some other Acts. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act. It's Senator 730-A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 should be voted on together. These amendments clarify the provisions in order to avoid interpretation doubts as to whether the scope of the standard laid down in the provision is covered by the purchase of shares in the joint ownership of the residential building in which the former premises are located. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 4 is to introduce the correct term. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Amendments 5 and 6 should be voted on together. They aim to harmonise the rules so that the beneficiary of the support is required to submit the settlement of the costs actually incurred of the project and that from the date on which those costs are settled a period of 15 years before the end of which the contract concluded cannot be changed or terminated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 7 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 8 is also editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 9 aims at harmonising terminology in the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 10 seeks to regulate cases where the tenant makes a statement on the amount of revenue after the deadline. The re-fixing of the rent will follow the same rules as when the declaration is made on time. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 11 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 12 seeks to protect tenants living in municipal premises on the date of entry into force of the Act against the risk of termination of their lease agreement due to too large accommodation in relation to the number of residents. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the amendment of the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for the homeless, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: amendment of the Social Assistance Act. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 728 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they ask for amendments to the Act 734 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 clarifies the provision prejudicing that it refers to the issue and not to the adoption of a regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 2 harmonises the provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 3 clarifies the provision, assuming that the authority's local jurisdiction should be defined by an indication of its area of activity. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 4 adds the provision for the establishment of a GMO crop register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 63 votes against, 22 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws. We are returning to the fourth item on the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up at the Doha Council on 8 December 2012. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they apply for the adoption of the law without amendments Senator's printing No 732 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 87 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 20]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up in Doha on 8 December 2012. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendment of Senate printing No 733 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Principles of State Property Management and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Rights of Workers. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act, and a minority of committees are asking for the rejection of Senate Print No 745 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 59 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 2 clarify the terminology of the law in order to express the intention of the legislator unambiguously and eliminate doubts, prejudicing that the provisions also apply to limited liability companies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] I'd ask someone to file a motion. Can I report him myself? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Good. I'm filing a motion to adopt a law without amendment. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 24 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Powers of Workers. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendments of Senate printing No 744 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. We are returning to the ninth item on the agenda: the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. This report is available in print No 746 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u95	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u96	Thank you very much. Does senator applicant, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, want to speak yet? [[No. Thank you very much.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance backed by a committee to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 61 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the law on the stripping of military rank of persons and soldiers of reserve, who in the years 1943 and 1990 embezzled with their attitude of the Polish state. A meeting of the Committee on National Defence took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 753 A. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u97	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the committee, after its meeting this morning, requests that the bill be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u98	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jan Żaryn, Jan Rulewski and Bogdan Borusewicz? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must speak because in the process of this law was asked by your decision, Mr. Marshal, the night of August... [[Voice from the room: August.]] ...sierpowy, yes. It's... [[Left hook.]] ...left hook... Well, I'm sorry, it's a left June... And this bill, Mr. Marshal, does not allow it to proceed as part of the proper forms, i.e. In the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, he gave her character, giving her such a night blow in August... so the procession must have been... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...simplified character. I admit that the amendments that have been tabled have not been properly recognised. I am accusing this bill, among others. The fact that she has the character of historical illiteracy, because it is described by the gentlemen to promote it. That independent Poland was established already in 1990. My amendment aims to make it 1991, which is just after the election and after the constitutional correction... [[Voice from the Chamber: 2015]] ...and after the suspension, the notabene in the Senate by Senator Romaszewski, the eagle in the crown. I object to this law and to what they rejected, also the fact that it is claimed that the marshals and the Soviet generals will not be deprived of their powers, that they will continue to be generals, Polish marshals, whose law does not allow... Because no one knows who they were. I'm sure they didn't embezzle their state because it was Soviet. I object to this bill... and especially to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, that I see you as barbaric. If you are going to deprive someone of something or take them to dignity, according to the article. 5 restore the law to the persecuted, it is such a duty for millennia, that in the case of those whom no one can defend, though to notify the family. You rejected it. You also rejected what you are trying to tell us here. Well, at funerals, also at Catholic funerals, perhaps even primarily on them, the priest concludes the ceremony with the words "rest in eternal peace." [[Voice from the room: Amen.]] And you in barbaric want the fumes of fighting, the fumes of barbaric nights to rise above the graves in Poland. [[Lenin's still alive.]] Listen to me, Revolutionary Boats, this is a revolutionary soldier talking to you. [[Voice from the hall: Oh, revolution!]] [[A drooling soldier.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u100	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the National Defence Committee to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome... Wait a minute, not yet, wait a minute. Oh, now. Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 22 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the deprivation of military degrees of persons and soldiers of the reserve, who in the years 1943 and 1990 have embezzled the Polish state. We return to the discussion of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of draft resolutions on the 50th anniversary of the March events of 1968. I would like to remind you that a joint report has been presented to the committee on draft resolutions and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. The third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 737/738 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 50th anniversary of Marc.68. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 731 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Robert Mamytkov, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends adopting the proposals set out in points 3 and 4 of point II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u102	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? You have reached conclusions during the discussion by Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Robert Mamytkow and Senator Jan Rulewski. Please, Senator Jan Rulewski reporting. [[Voice from the room: A drooling soldier.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There seems to have been consensus on these issues in the Senate and this agreement has given rise to a number of concerted initiatives. I'm not gonna name names so I don't brag, and I'm not gonna ignore anybody here. In the case of this law, we have also corrected a mistake which the Sejm has committed, and yet I think it is necessary to ask everyone, this time without specifying who was in this revolution. And there were more of us, there were many of us. For the adoption of an amendment that extends the powers of these children, which, like the bill, this initiative of Senator Mammothov... These are the ones who were born in prisons, but also those that parents could not exercise parental authority These children weren't born in prisons. Because these parents remained in prisons, in internment centers, hiding or not allowed to enter Poland from abroad. It's not much. I think family policy is in your interest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u104	Thank you very much. Do the other senators still want to speak? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 3 were in favour, 84 against. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 extends the subjective scope of the Act, assuming that compensation and redress may be sought not only by the children of mothers deprived of liberty as a result of unfair judgments, but also by children whose father has been declared invalid and children who have been deprived of full parental care as a result of deprivation of liberty of their mother or father. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 54 against. [[Voting No 30]] Correction denied. Amendment 2... [[Voice from O.R.: 6th.]] ...and Amendment 6. These amendments should be voted on together. Amendment 2 deletes the provision ordering children of mothers deprived of liberty to apply appropriate rules to claims of persons for whom the judgment has been annulled. Amendment 6 is the consequence of Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 3 deletes the provision on the possibility for anti-communist opposition activists to seek compensation and redress and those who are being repressed for political reasons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 4 correlates the provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 5 deletes the provision that the claims of the children of persons deprived of liberty without the outcome of the judgment of the proceedings shall not be valid. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 27 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 34]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. I would like to inform you that the order of the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? I take it you do. You're welcome, Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing my senator's statement to the Minister of Science, Mr. Jarosław Gowin. Well, I was approached by a Ukrainian student who is going to finish her second year of law at the University of Ukraine this year and would like to continue her studies in Poland. And my questions are: what will the procedure for studying such a person look like? whether this person will be considered a student who will simply continue her studies at the Polish university, or will be admitted for a specific year, e.g. another, with the obligation to make up for the differences in programs, or The third option Her Ukrainian law studies, these 2 years, will not be recognized and she will simply have to study in Poland from the beginning, because her student status will not be recognized? And the second question is whether the second group of questions. These are questions: what documents must be presented Because I understand that this person will receive from the Ukrainian university a certificate that she is a student, e.g. completed second year of law So that her student status would be honored here? I mean, I understand he's going to present some document of the Ukrainian university, but the question is, is this document supposed to be for example. Translated by a sworn translator, whether it is about the fact that the accuracy of such a document is notarized, or whether it is about the document stating that she is a student, for example. confirmed by the competent Consul of the Consulate of the Republic of Poland, where this university is located, or is it finally some other form of certificate of student status? And if so, what is it? I would very much ask you to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, According to the information provided by the Minister, the last arrangements for the Environmental Impact Report of the Channel by Wiślana are underway and that the report will be discussed in detail in the European Commission. That's good news, but I'm asking for some more details. One: On the basis of what studies, and when was the channel's environmental impact report carried out by measure? Two: where and where are the results of these tests available? Third: has the report been or will be subject to environmental consultation? Fourth: where and when these consultations take place, who participates in them, who is invited to them, in what form are the consultation information published? Next question: is there a dialogue with the European Commission on the presentation of a report and agreement with the Commission. And the last question is whether environmental consultations are carried out using the regulation of the channel construction by measuring whether the general provisions on consultation in investments carried out in the protected environment, among others. within the Natura 2000 network?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u109	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to make a statement on behalf of a group of senators addressed to President Andrzej Duda. It concerns the inclusion in the Constitution of paternity as a constitutional value. Using the invitation of the President to debate on the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, we wish to speak on the issue of paternity, which we believe should be constitutionally protected. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has special legal force in our country. Other specific rights within our political community are being removed from the Constitution. It is to be expected that this very important document properly defines the basic principles and values on which the Polish system of organization of political, economic, social and cultural life is founded. We wonder if this is true in relation to the values that we define as family values. Art. The 18th Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that marriage as a union between women and men, family, motherhood and parenthood are under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland. This is a record that contains some important and positive findings. First of all, it defines marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman. Thanks to this unambiguous formulation it is unacceptable in Poland to enter into single-sex marriages or polygamy relationships. Immediately after marriage under the legal protection of the Polish state, the constitution places the family. It is precious and bearable in the effects of appreciating the most important community created by the human species since the beginning of its existence on earth. The family has key functions for the development of culture and civilization: building bonds based on love, birthing and raising offspring, making a unique contribution to social life, as well as cultivating spiritual and religious development. It is the basic environment in which and through which a person develops his humanity. The life of a nation and the functioning of a state without a strong family is doomed to failure. That is why the state is right to protect the family, because it is a delicate and vulnerable structure. The number of divorces and children suffering from divorces in Poland and Europe, or almost 1%, shows this. children raised outside biological families, in foster care. Motherhood appears as another value that is rightly placed under the special protection of the Republic of Poland. In the most natural and healthy way motherhood is experienced by a woman in a well-functioning family. In a situation of divorce, single parenting of extramarital children, widows or various family pathologies, the protection of motherhood by law should be appropriate to the needs. The list of family values protected by this provision of the Basic Law closes parenthood. And here we see a significant lack. The concept of parenthood also includes motherhood, so it is a repetition here. In the meantime, there was no term "fatherhood." Today, social awareness and legal culture have gone so far that fatherhood is increasingly understood as an active and committed relationship between father and child. Moreover, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the involvement of men in paternity is a social value and is part of the common good. We believe that it is necessary to strive for paternity to be included in the Constitution as a value in extenso protected and cultivated in the Republic of Poland. There are many arguments for this, perhaps the most important of which is the right of the child to be brought up by both parents. Both motherhood and fatherhood, despite the stereotypes still prevailing here and there, are essential for the development of the child. This dad is not a substitute we have in the upbringing or in the parenting of bis. He is a person necessary for the proper functioning of the family, and in particular children. Poland is a country with rich constitutional traditions, which reminds us of the annual celebrations of the 3rd May Constitution. Constitutional wording is a guideline for legislation and judicial apparatus. The constitutional record of fatherhood will translate into law and contribute to creating a culture conducive to strong fatherhood. Children, families, but also fathers themselves, who will be honored in their life's role and encouraged to serve their families more actively and responsibly. Therefore, we are in favour of entering paternity as a protected value in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. They signed the following senators: Rafał Śluszarz, Jerzy Czerwiński, Aleksander Szwed, Andrzej Kamiński, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Marek Martynowski, Ryszard Majer, Józef Łyczak, Zbigniew Cichoń, Stanisław Gogacz, Konstanty Radziwiłł, Jan Maria Jackowski, Antoni Szymański, Andrzej Pajak, Alicja Zając, Kazimierz Wiatr and Artur Warzocha. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-08-senat-57-3.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. I close the fiftieth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 11]]
