ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. As announced earlier, I propose supplementing the agenda with items: the Self-Government Road Fund Act and considering this item as a point of the twenty-fourth agenda; the Act amending the Law on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals and to consider this item as a point on the 25th agenda; the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Law on Tax Law and certain other laws and consider this item as item of the 21st agenda; the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws and considering this item as a point of the twenty-seventh agenda; the Act establishing the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and consider this item as item on the 20th agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider this item as item on the 29th agenda. That's all the points. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u2	Mr. Marshal, I object to the introduction of a point regarding the announcement of November 12th... [[A day off from work.]] ...a day off from work. This point is unfortunately introduced traditionally, according to the rules that prevail in this House, and thus instantly, without consulting the interested, i.e. entrepreneurs. I therefore object to the introduction of this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u3	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's motion had not been passed, it would have been appropriate, I believe, to change the order of consideration...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u5	But it's not, Mr. Senator, it's not... [[Wait a minute, Mr. Marshal, have you taken my floor?]] I'm gonna... [['Cause I can see you censoring every vote I have, including the formal proposals.]] I'm judging. At the moment, I have asked a question about opposition to the introduction of points, and it is only later that we can discuss the order. [[Good.]] Well, Mr. Senator, it's my duty, I have to keep an eye on the order here, and I'll keep an eye on it. Are there any other votes on this? Ladies and gentlemen, as I understand it, the High House does not object to the remaining points. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Good. I believe that all points have been accepted, except for this point that you questioned, Marshal Borusewicz. We will now vote on Mr Marshal's motion, and in fact we will vote on my motion for a point concerning the Law on the Establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland to be introduced and considered as item twenty-eighth of the agenda. Who's in favour of bringing it in? We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of introducing an additional item, supplementing the agenda with a point concerning the Act on the Establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of Reclaiming Independence of the Republic of Poland? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, 50 for, 19 against. [[Voting No 3]] I understand the order has been completed. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u6	Thank you. Maybe I'll finish it now. In line with the need for a fair review of this law, with this in mind, we took part in meetings of committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, where amendments were made. And also, in order to give the Sejm time for possible corrections, I propose that this point be considered in the first place.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u7	The first one. But this... [[The one about the national holiday.]] Holy... [[Yes.]] It's a little contrary to what the senator said, but I understand... I mean, I don't understand, but I understand this conclusion... [[Joy in the Chamber]] The senator is asking that this point... well, it's not the first point, it's the twenty-fourth point. Yes? [[To... yes, yes, in the first place.]] Good. Who's in favour? I'm against it. Who's in favour of the senator's proposal? I put the motion of Senator Rulewski to the vote. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted against, 19 against, 46 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] Are there any other proposals for ordering or completing the agenda? No. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law on the Self-Government Road Fund. The text of the Act is contained in print No 973, and the committee report In print No 973 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, I have the honour to present the report of these 2 joint committees on the Act on the Roads Fund adopted by the Sejm on 23 October 2018. The Self-Government Road Fund Act provides for significant changes in the way and scope of financing investments on public roads managed by local government units. The Self-Government Road Fund will be a state-owned special-purpose fund, and its responsibility is to be the minister responsible for transport. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be responsible for the bank handling of the fund. This fund will fund the construction, reconstruction or reconstruction of district and municipal roads, construction of bridges located in voivodeship roads, district roads or municipal roads and construction, reconstruction or reconstruction of voivodship roads, district roads or municipal roads of defence importance. The main sources of funding for the Self-Government Road Fund will be: payments from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management of PLN 1.4 billion per year; subsidies from the state budget, including part of the budget, which is the responsibility of the Minister for National Defence In the amount of 500 million per year; payments from State Forest Farms of 2% revenue obtained from the sale of wood; payments from the profit of single-member companies of the State Treasury Of 7.5% their profit after income tax. There will be other payments, other dispatchers can also make payments. That'll be, among other things. appropriations from interest on free funds transferred or accepted for management in accordance with public finance rules, non-refundable foreign receipts, revenue from the treasury securities referred to in Article. 6 laws, voluntary contributions, donations and records, receipts from other public funds, receipts from other titles. And now: the funds will be transferred to finance the administrative and municipal tasks consisting of construction, reconstruction or reconstruction of roads and bridge tasks consisting of the construction of bridges located in public roads, as well as the financing of defence tasks carried out on voivodship, district and municipal roads. Local government units are expected to receive funding of up to 80% of the cost of a given district or municipal task, the amount of which will depend on the wealth of these individual local authorities. The poorer the local government will be, the more funding they will receive, up to 80%. If he's more wealthy, it'll be smaller. This law does not even include this, but the Minister said at the meeting of the joint committees that the minimum amount of aid would be 50%. However, the amount of this funding for the district or municipal task must not exceed PLN 30 million. The grant of funding from the Self-Government Road Fund for district and municipal tasks will take place on a competitive basis. Voivodeships will be responsible for organising competitions, who also have applications for funding. The Act contains rules on the conduct of competitions, including rules on how to carry out evaluations and the drawing up of lists of tasks recommended for funding. Letters after prior verification by the Minister responsible for Transport shall be approved by the President of the Council of Ministers. The grant will be granted to qualified applicants on the basis of a contract concluded between the voivodship and the relevant local government unit. The Minister responsible for Transport will be responsible for coordinating the performance of tasks under the Act by voivodships. The Act will remain in force until the end of 2028. The implementation of these tasks will begin in 2019. As far as the value of the fund's revenue is concerned, this will change over the years. From PLN 6 billion in the first year of operation of the fund, i.e. in 2019, to around 3.3 billion in recent years, i.e. in the years 2027 and 2028. Mr Marshal, High Senate, a lively discussion was held at the joint committee meeting, which led to Mr Florek's 10 amendments. These amendments were discussed, but the joint committees did not recommend that the Senate adopt them. The 6-8 vote has lost these conclusions. Senator Pekkis made a motion to adopt this law without amendments and this proposal was voted by 8:6. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the joint committees, I request that you adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u10	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To begin with, a number of comments justifying these minority claims. In 2008 and 2014 the National Local Road Redevelopment Programme was implemented. As you remember, 15 000 km of roads have been upgraded, rebuilt, built. The development programme for municipal and district road infrastructure was then implemented between 2016 and 2019. I said it was, but I was also talking about 2019, which is a program that is still being implemented. And here's the first major conflict with this bill. After all, this programme of development of municipal and district road infrastructure is being implemented. As I recall, between 1 and 15 September, there was a call under this programme and this programme is being implemented in accordance with the principles that have been done so far, the voivode appointed committees that deal with individual requests, etc. And now there's a new law that's been carried out at an express rate. As is the case, it was quickly accepted by the government and then processed in the Sejm. It so happens that this initiative related to the new programme appeared during the elections. At the committee meeting, we asked what was the position of the joint government committee, whether there was such a position at all. In addition, there was a representative of the Polish voivodships, I think, at the meeting of the committee. And of course, there was no consultation on this issue, and there was no position of the government committee and of the local government, which is very important, because as far as this programme is concerned, it is difficult to imagine proceeding without this position. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now refer to the programme and the amendments. First thing. Where's the money for this local government fund? So far, we've been talking about the fuel charge and the fact that this should finance the roads. In this act, the money for this fund will be allocated from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. That's 1.4 billion a year. It's like the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management has too much money. You've often talked about the fight against smog, the thermal insulation, these things, and so a substantial amount from the environmental fund is meant to be spent on roads. Second thing. The Minister of National Defence is to allocate 500 million PLN to roads related to MON. As for this, there is a completely different procedure, and I will talk about it at the end or in the discussion about it. Self-governments actually have nothing to do with it, because the whole procedure is outside the local government, except the voivodeship, that is, these roads are added to this law. What else? Grants from the budget from the competent authorising officer or the competent ministry, the general contribution from the director of the State Forest Farm, the State Forests, that is 2% revenue from the sale of wood. I'm about to come to the conclusion that there's a minority request to change this funding. Then there's another payment, which is important, from the Treasury companies of 7.5%. their profit after tax, there are still interest on free resources, then there are still a few points. And in the end there are receipts from other titles, such a point: receipts from other titles. You don't know what other titles, but other titles. You can ask a question about stability. What's it like? So are these finances going to be stable? And here's what you said to the rapporteur about these percentages: up to 80%. funding, up to PLN 30 million... Well, the defensive tasks are to be financed 100%. [[Mr. Senator, you've been asked to present a minority proposal, and you're not.]] Yeah, I got 20 minutes for that. This is an introduction to this... [[But I'd like to ask ad rem, which is to say...]] I'm getting to the point. [[You're welcome.]] I'm just passing through, and I've just signalled what topics the minority proposals are about. Ladies and gentlemen, the law does not include cities on the rights of powiats, those which are the headquarters of voivodeships and marshals. That, of course, is also some discrimination, because why is the bill being pulled out of the... They're communes, they're communes, and the bill takes them out... Ladies and gentlemen, the next important thing is that there are no representatives of the management board of the voivodship roads, as has been the case so far. I'm talking about those committees that are called up by the voivode. How to talk about network coherence if they're not there? And here's the thing at the end. The President of the Council of Ministers shall have a casting vote which may change everything, which may specify other criteria which, without any criteria, may change these lists without any mode. That's the finale. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are making the following amendments. First: Article. 4 delete paragraph. 7. Payments from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The National Fund has other tasks and so a substantial amount should not be allocated to road financing. Next: in the same article in the paragraph. One is a MON grant, that's 500 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this is inserted into this law on local roads, and the whole procedure is out of the question, because all these roads are decided by the Minister and the President of the Council of Ministers. So it should be the general management, not the local government. Fourth amendment, actually third, and I'll be right back to the first one. In this article in the mouth. 1 delete paragraph 5, i.e. revenue of 7.5% profit after corporation tax. It is not known what these profits will be, what their stability will be. Well, companies are about to finance local government roads right now. I'm sorry, because I forgot to tell you in the article. 4 delete paragraph. 7. This is about these cities, these municipalities, which are towns on the rights of the county. Why should they be highlighted in this bill and not get these funds? Ladies and gentlemen, in the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 3 point 2 to be replaced by the following: I'm just gonna say this here in a nutshell, so I don't read this point. It's about being a representative of the voivodship road management in the committees. Because as we talk about the coherence of roads, when we have a representative of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, when we have 2 representatives of the voivodeships, we have a representative of the supervising inspector, we have a police representative in relation to road safety, and we do not have a representative of the management of the voivodeship roads. So here's an amendment to the addition of this. Then: in Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this The point here is that instead of the President of the Council of Ministers, the competent minister should approve it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, why should the President of the Council of Ministers decide at the end, whether to change the lists, etc.? Can't the minister do that, just like it's been on both the show so far? The premier's commitment to whether there's going to be a self-government road in this and this community, I don't know, 500 or 1,000 m long... It's really pointless for him to decide that. After all, the right minister can do so. Ladies and gentlemen, in the article. Article 26 shall be deleted. One, two, and three. These are the paragraphs that talk about, instead of... a second. The point is that the President of the Council of Ministers does not have a decisive role here. All those changes to the article. I'm not going to discuss them anymore. It is the minister responsible and not the President of the Council of Ministers who approves the final list and the amount, because the amount of compensation is also approved by the President of the Council of Ministers. And, ladies and gentlemen, the last two amendments to this article are deleted. 39 and delete Article. 41. What is it? It's about the defensive tasks I've already mentioned, as well as the bridges. Ladies and gentlemen, what tasks can be financed when it comes to the construction of bridges? It could be these tasks. One second, ladies and gentlemen. For which there was an application for funding for a given year. So the point is that a given bridge, a given object had to have received funding earlier. He had to be on the list of government tasks and get funding for the preparation of this investment, documentation, etc. If the application has not been processed in this mode, such a bridge will not be possible. These are only those bridges that can be built centrally, so it is again the task of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, not this law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are making these amendments. Of course, we're all in favour of making roads. It is known that many have been created since 1989. I remember the first statistics, how many we had and what the state of roads in Poland was, and I know what it looks like today. We're all in favour of building as many roads as possible to spend as much money on this, but there has to be some logic in all of this. We therefore make our possible support of this law subject to the adoption of these important and important amendments that we are proposing in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Klein is first. Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur of the majority. Have you ever wondered, by creating this local road fund, that creating this fund in such a way is de facto disassembling the state budget? Because this fund is created from other funds, e.g. The National Fund for Environmental Protection, etc., this fund is created from contributions from profits from companies of the State Treasury, etc. This is a little ridiculous. Principle to be applied in the budget At least this has been the case so far. The fact is that if a company of the State Treasury or any company with the State Treasury's participation makes a profit, it pays a dividend to the State budget. It is part of the revenue of the state budget and the State through the budget law distributes these funds. Now this distribution of dividends for specific purposes will take place within this company. This is, in my opinion, a completely new situation, and it's kind of a storm, it's kind of an order to build a state budget. The same is true of the fact that you are introducing funds from the Ministry of National Defence into the local road budget. Well, that's also a crazy situation. It should be at the state budget building stage... [[But this is...]] ...reduce the budget... [[Mr. Senator, right now you're having a discussion...]] ...so we return... [[...and doesn't ask a question.]] I ask the question: have you returned... [[This is a new situation.]] ...or have you returned... [[New.]] ...the country's attention to this... [[Yeah, yeah?]] ...that you shouldn't create a fund in this way? That it is simply the government's budget that should pay these funds directly so that they can be used for this purpose? Was this case part of the discussion... [[Thank you very much...]] ...at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u13	I see. Good. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Waldemar Sługocki is asking a question. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the Senator of the rapporteur a question... [[Minorities?]] Yeah, minorities. [[There you go.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator, I have a question: will the exclusion of cities on the rights of the county from the proposed fund affect the fact that these cities will not carry out local road construction tasks? And another part of that question. So what source of city on the rights of the county will they be able to use to build road infrastructure within the boundaries of these local government units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u15	Thank you. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u16	I'd like to ask for more detail. Will all cities on the rights of the county be excluded, or only those in which the voivodships are located? That's the first question. And the other. During the committee's work, was there any simulation of the anticipated proceeds from the profits of the Treasury companies? Because we in many years of practice know that when big investments are coming and companies of the Treasury know this from the work of the economic commission They are preparing for very large investments, there is no profit. What was the simulation? That's a question for Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u17	Please respond to the senators. Maybe the first Senator Dobkowski. You're welcome. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] And then you'll be Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u18	I answer the question that Senator Klein asked in his long speech. It was not at the committee meeting that the issue was considered in this way, whether it is appropriate that individual actors, e.g. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management or other entities allocate funds directly, in accordance with the Act, or these funds should first go to the budget and this would be financed by the budget. There was no mention of that. But I think this bill makes sense. If it were financed by the budget, then these funds would, say, come from other titles that the budget generally finances. And so it is advisable that only from revenue to budget from these institutions, i.e. companies, and in a specific amount. It is simply established here how much money must be paid e.g. The National Environmental Fund, how much money is due to the contributions of State Treasury companies, how much from State Forests and other companies. I remember that as we laid down the details of the Law on State Forests, it was still in the previous term, when the Civic Platform ruled, it was said that the funds from the sale of wood would be used for the construction of roads. I personally think it's a good design. And the construction that Senator Klein was talking about would be wrong. Other questions, I think, were to the rapporteur of the minority. [[There were still questions for me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u19	Yeah, I know. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, question one, I think it's consistent with the one you asked Senator Augustine. As for the municipalities that have been excluded from the bill, I'm going to say yes. In general, applications may be submitted by all municipalities and districts. However, in this law something was done that some municipalities had been excluded. It is only about cities on the rights of the county, which are the seat of the Voivodeship office and the Marshal's office. There are exactly 16 of them plus 2 villages, the seat of the Sejmites. We're talking about Gorz and Toruń. So basically... [[About Green Mountain.]] Sorry, Green Mountain. In Gorzów there is a voivode, and in Zielona Góra and Toruń there is a marshal. Therefore, these municipalities... towns on the county's rights are also municipalities. These municipalities have been completely excluded from this scheme. Why do these communities have been shut down and others remain? Well, it's hard to say. Senator Slugocki also spoke about road financing. It is known that EU funds were also used to finance roads, mainly by marshals' offices, which supported construction initiatives. Thanks to EU funds, many investments have been made in Poland. Since when do we get these resources... We have not only those 15 000 kilometres from local resources, from this joint financing, but also many kilometres from EU funds. This is of course a very important and very strong power source. The senator asked if there was any simulation at the committee meeting about the profits of the companies. Of course, there was no such simulation. There were no details or information. Just the fact that these are two programs that overlap, this is some sort of abnormal situation. I don't know how to get out of this. That's a question for the Minister, maybe I'll ask the question myself. Because there's one program on which the second program is set. And so I don't know what we're going to do. In the case of the second programme, the deadline for submitting the application was from 1 to 15 July. It's already behind us and you can't apply for 2019, and we have the money. We have the money you asked Senator Augustine about, the money from the profits of the Treasury companies. Ladies and gentlemen, we're starting this kind of investment... Of course, the company's president is responsible for the company's finances. And it turns out that the profits that the company will make will be spent not on development, on investment, but on roads. I understand that at some point there's some economic situation that some profits of the company were bigger and that's why maybe they want to take the money and invest in the roads, but the fact is that We don't know what's gonna happen. At the moment there is economic growth and prosperity, so these companies function well. But what next year? What will be the profits for the year, just in 2019? We don't know that. And this is a significant source of road financing. The stability of this funding will therefore be achieved if, for example, Will the profits of the companies be smaller? Well, it's obviously a dilemma. Therefore, there is no simulation, there is no assurance that these measures will be sufficient, in accordance with the rules adopted. Not much, ladies and gentlemen, this program is for 10 years, which is until 2028. That's all the money from the environmental fund, the Treasury companies, etc. are to be allocated over 10 years for the implementation of these investments. That's it. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Mr. Senator, I'd like to rephrase the question to Senator Flork. Does the exclusion of the representative of the management of the voivodship roads, de facto the local government, not affect the fact that the selection of investments will not be complementary to the voivodship roads? After all, we know that municipal or district roads connect with voivodship roads. Will this not lead to such a state that these decisions will, however, be burdened with a large amount of error? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u23	Mr. Senator, the programme that is currently underway, the Local Development Programme for the years 2016 and 2019, and of course, committees have been set up as part of this programme. They're already working, they've been appointed by the voivods. Between 1 and 15 September, there was a call for these municipal and district tasks. Applications have been submitted and committees are working. There's a representative of the voivodship road management board on this committee. And so far it has been. Also in the previous program, the National program of reconstruction of local roads, was a representative. And it's completely incomprehensible why this program is not supposed to be a representative of the management of the voivodship roads. In general, it is a representative of the management of the voivodship roads. How to talk about the complementarity of road networks throughout Poland... 'Cause that's where you start. We have national roads, we have voivodship, county and communal roads. And the point is that this network is consistent, and that it can actually be possible, considering the railroad, to reach all the towns as quickly as possible, so that the roads are consistent... Therefore, it is difficult to imagine, if there is no representative of the management board of the voivodship roads, a discussion on the coherence of the roads. So this is, in my opinion, a fundamental error, which is why. The conclusion... There's an amendment that's about to change that so that a representative of the voivodship road management is also... Ladies and gentlemen, these representatives are not much on the committee. These committees are working. And now there's gonna be a new committee that's gonna be looking into for 2019... this is some kind of misunderstanding. I don't know what's going on here. Perhaps the Minister will answer us, because we have one program, the other, we have the money for this year, the deadline for submitting applications has already expired, you cannot submit these applications, the money is to be... So I don't know what's going on. But in the committee, in this new one, we have so far 2 representatives of the voivodeship, there is also a representative of the building surveillance inspector, there is a police representative, because we are talking about road safety. And it's very good that it is. There is a representative of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, and there is no representative of precisely those roads which should be consistent throughout this programme. So it's incomprehensible, Mr. Senator, which is why the amendment I made... Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the majority. Did the committee discuss the need to participate in the selection of local road investments under the local road fund of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister? Is there really a need for the Prime Minister of the Polish Government to participate in the distribution of funds into local roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u26	Mr. Senator, there's been a discussion about this. I mean, the Senator rapporteur, who put forward minority proposals, talked about it, as well as other opposition senators spoke about it. The Minister replied that this was the right thing to do. Besides, the minister will be in charge of everything... Oh, one more thing. Senator Florek argued that this should end with the fact that the minister responsible for transport should approve it, and that there is no need to involve the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister has many more important tasks than this. But I think that this is the support of the state, it is like additional support for the construction of district and local roads, because the construction of district roads should be carried out by the county, and the construction of local roads, i.e. municipal roads, should be implemented by the municipality. Even Senator Florek was talking about simply giving higher tax revenues directly to municipalities or powiats in order to regulate it by law. But those were just his conclusions. There is a law that talks about how the government should implement the construction of local, district and municipal roads. The Minister said that he did not support all these amendments and proposed that the law should be adopted in the version which was adopted in the Sejm. And that's what the joint committees are proposing to the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u27	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: No, thank you.]] No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister... [[Minister, you're welcome to join us in the podium.]] Minister, I have a question for you. In fact, I wanted to continue with the question I raised to the rapporteur, Senator Dobkowski. It is a question of uniformity, the correctness of the construction of the fund in terms of substance, that is, in fact, the uniformity of the state budget. Have you considered this problem? The point is that separate funds should not be created from subsequent funds or contributions, and if any, this should be clear, transparent, easy to evaluate. Also from the point of view of Members and Senators As such funds operate, this should be a contribution from the budget, and these revenue generated should be revenue from the State budget. This is such a classic and correct way of creating and allocating funds to the state budget. And actually, with the principle that you're proposing here now, for 30 years, they've been fighting. The idea was not to break the budget, but to make it transparent, uniform, clear and understandable. Because there is some absurdity in this construction that shows that the budget will include funds that will be transferred by the Minister of National Defence. This is an absurd situation. Right? Well, I imagine it, but then... It should be that, at the stage of work on the state budget, the pre-planned appropriations for the budget of the Minister of National Defence are being reduced and resources are increased in another part, not that there are some payments, etc., because that makes the budget illegible, ill-structured. Did you have the approval of the Minister of Finance to construct such a local road fund? Did he consider this to be correct from the point of view of budget-building techniques? Does he agree? Second thing. In the previous term, we as the Civic Platform introduced this contribution to the state budget from the State Forests with the idea that these funds would be used for the construction of local roads. And they were so devoted, but not directly, because it was the revenue of the state budget, i.e. these funds were not passed on in such a way that here the Forests are building the way in the village of this or that. At the time, ladies and gentlemen of the PS senators here in the Senate, all like one husband and wife, said that if we put this fund in place, if we put it in place... not the fund, but this deposit, the State Forests will turn over and go bankrupt. And then we were told that as soon as the PiS came to power, it would immediately eliminate this deposit as destroying the State Forests. What's changed is that you're now praising the laws that we introduced at the time, even though at first they weren't even that high... At first, it was a smaller deposit associated with it. And the third, last question, concerning these so-called. Schematics. That's been going through your questions before. The point is to be clear here, so it's precise. Whether the creation of this fund means the liquidation of the so-called programme. Schetynski, which was this technique built for many previous years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u29	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first thing that needs to be pointed out when it comes to building a fund is that it is not a state budget. This is a special-purpose fund. And now, due to the very high demand for the construction, reconstruction and renovation of local roads, the Prime Minister, in agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructure, has proposed such a solution to redirect certain streams of resources that are available to the newly created Self-Government Road Fund. As regards the 2% contribution from the State Forests, it's actually this percentage that is not going to go into the budget at the moment, it's going to go into the fund. That was the construction, that's the financial forecast... [[And now it's a good thing. Yes? If the PiS rules, it's good, and the woods won't get hurt.]] According to our diagnosis, and according to the findings of the Ministry of Finance, the Forests will not be harmed. [[So what you said back then was a complete demagogy.]] Well, it's hard for me to start a discussion right now about what happened back then. Senator, let me tell you what's going on right now. As far as the closure of the previous fund is concerned, yes, the previous fund will be closed, but that does not mean that these tasks will no longer be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u31	Thank you. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have a question, what happened, that the evaluation of projects by the representative of the management board of the voivodship roads, i.e. de facto the representative of the local government, was excluded from the committee. Don't you think that's the voice of a representative of the local government? Would it be very helpful to make decisions? Also, the parity... Because if you, as I understand it, are concerned about the advantage of votes, then you can construct a committee so that this advantage of the government is preserved. I think that the knowledge of the representative of the local government, the management of the voivodship roads, would be very helpful in this regard. Why is a representative of the voivodship road management excluded in this program? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u33	Therefore, a representative of voivodship roads is excluded because the program does not apply to voivodship roads. For this fund to work smoothly... Since we are talking about district and communal roads, and we are participating in this program as a leading voivode who cares about the cohesion of voivodship roads on its territory, we thought that there is no danger, fear that it will not ensure the coherence of voivodship roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u35	Thank you. Well, I think you're overspoken, Minister, because it's not the voivodship that cares about the voivodship roads, it's the management of the voivodship roads, which is de facto the voivodship self-government. This is how he sets out from 5 June 1998 about the local government. It simply says that the roads of the voivodship are in the competence of the local government, not a representative of the government in the field, i.e. the voivodship. So this argument, which you have been polite to state, has nothing to do with reality, to the legal state in Poland. So I repeat this question: why can't a voivodship host participate in the assessment of communal and district roads, which form a common network, just with district and communal roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u36	We felt that the representative of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, representatives of construction surveillance, police representatives and representatives of the local government would be much better able to separate this fund. It's about him being able to be separated quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, isn't it so that gradually, bearing in mind everything that has happened in a different matter in the context of the functioning of the local government in Poland... Isn't it so that this decision slightly fits into the sphere of centralization of the state, pushing out voivodships from various spheres of public life and de facto limiting the powers of voivodships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u39	In my opinion, this has absolutely nothing to do with politics. This is clearly a question of the efficiency of such a body. That's why we created this so that this body would be able to separate the fund in a short time, without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u40	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u41	Thank you. Minister, a fundamental question and a fundamental issue. It is a programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure. According to this programme, the voivodeships announced recruitment, it takes place from 1 to 15 September, and the municipalities submitted applications. One task is, you know, the task of the municipality, two tasks Land districts. The Voivodeships have set up a committee. It is also there, among others. this representative of the management board of voivodship roads . and according to criteria that determine very rigid, clear, they define a list of projects that will be co-financed according to the existing rules, i.e. 3 million 50%... etc. Now you're introducing a new law, a law on the Self-Government Road Fund. And there it is stated that the fund manager shall inform the voivodeship, from 1 July to 15 July of the calendar year, of the expected amounts of the funding. After receiving this information, the voivodships divide these funds into district and municipal tasks, and announce recruitment. This is the case for self-government roads, because it is a little different for bridges, there is a deadline from 1 to 31 March; in the case of defence tasks there is probably also a deadline. So I have a question about what it's gonna look like next year. So are we going to have two programs next year? The deadline has already expired, i.e. it is actually impossible to carry out these local, municipal and district tasks next year. But the state in the bill predicted the funds, you said they'd be from the environmental fund, from companies, etc., you said they'd be next year. In general, the tasks of the programme cannot be accomplished next year, apart from bridge tasks and in addition to defence tasks. So I have a question for you. I would ask you to explain what we are dealing with here and how we understand it. Is there one program or two programs? Will he, or will he not be implemented next year? And if there isn't, then what's the point? Because the bill provides that it is not possible to do so properly, because the deadline for submitting applications has already expired. So what's it gonna be like next year? Will there be 2 programs or will there be 1 program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u42	Mr. Senator, this program, which is in force today, is part of a new programme that has been set up, a programme called the Self-Government Road Fund. The tasks that have been reported in this edition of the programme will also be carried out in the next edition, as if they pass smoothly to the Fund for Roads of Local Government. There is no danger that they will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u43	Mr. Marshal, I'll ask. Well, it's just a legislative scandal, then, if you say so, that they'll be... There's one law, there's another law, there's rules that regulate it. There are no transitional provisions that say that these tasks will be carried out... According to the rules that are currently in place, the programme, which has been implemented so far, will be implemented. There is no chance of implementing the new programme next year, because the deadlines that are proposed, apart from those concerning bridges and defence tasks, are unrealistic, impossible to implement, while in the budget there are resources. In my opinion, we are dealing with some legislative scandal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u44	Would the Minister like to comment on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u45	In my opinion, all these deadlines are matched and the fund will work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u46	Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u47	Thank you very much. Minister, according to the Act of 5 June 1998, such a sense is strictly hosted by the Marshal. He is responsible for the development of the voivodship. Therefore, the creation of such structures here, which, as it were, undermine the role of the marshal in this matter, but also the role of the management of the voivodship roads, is a bit, I think, questionable. I will ask... you, Minister, said that this centralization of the distribution of these funds is aimed at a smooth and rapid distribution of this money. Here I have doubts whether the speed is important, or whether it is the most sensible allocation of these resources. I think local governments, even district governments, with 20-year-old history, could handle it. Wouldn't it be better to set up a special fund at district level? We have the biggest problems with county roads right now. Wouldn't it be more efficient to build these local roads after setting up such a special-purpose fund at the level of the county? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u48	It's hard to have a discussion like this... We have adopted a programme concerning mostly district and municipal roads. I would like to tell you that, following an analysis of the completed programmes, it should be pointed out that more than half of all the municipalities in Poland have not yet benefited from any funding, from any programme. That's why it's county and communal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u50	Minister, this is a question from yesterday's committee meeting that I did not receive an answer to. Does the Ministry have data on the state of the county roads in Poland and data on what resources, what expenditures on these roads should be allocated? Do we even know what the scale of this problem is? It's about the state of the local roads. Is that what it is? If you don't answer me now, I'll ask you to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u51	In answer to the senator's question, first of all it should be said that the municipal roads and district roads in Poland are 374 000 km and represent 88% public roads in Poland. The analysis of all programmes shows that the need for funding is about 100% higher than the available limits. With regard to the state of the county roads and the state of the communal roads, we are based on the results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit which examined this state of the roads. It turned out that 36% of the county and municipal roads were in bad shape. This bad condition means that you should get to work immediately. 35% of roads are unsatisfied and should be renovated in the near future, while only 29% of roads are in good and satisfactory condition. So that's the problem we're dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u52	Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u53	Thank you. I have a question, or I would actually ask you to give me what this annual road fund is going to be, since 1.4 billion is to be taken from the national fund, 500 million from defense, which is the Ministry of National Defence... I don't know how much it's 2%. State Forest revenue and how to estimate 7.5% the profits of the companies. What could be the global amount per year?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u54	We say, and so we planned this fund, that in 2019 there will be 6 billion PLN. ♪ 'Cause it's still there ♪ The senator didn't count it. They're bonds. [[Extra, extra... yeah. 6 billion zlotys. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u55	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u56	Minister, bridge tasks, then. I quote: the Fund's funding can only be provided for bridge tasks for which the costs of preparing the investment have been granted on the basis of a programme adopted by the Council of Ministers. It's an art. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. That is only those tasks for which the costs of preparing investments on the basis of a programme adopted by the Council of Ministers... And therefore, Minister, the question is: what is the participation of the local government here? We know that applications in this particular case can be submitted from 1 to 31 January, not as in the case of roads for which this deadline has already expired. And here the minister makes the list, the minister grants the funding, the minister carries it out... And so it is when it comes to defence matters. There the minister even signs agreements with individual local governments for these defence tasks. I don't really understand why these bridge tasks, which are actually central, and the defensive tasks that don't actually concern... They only concern self-government in the sense that they may be in its territory, but the whole procedure is outside the government. Why are these 2 tasks included in this programme? After all, they have nothing to do with the local road construction programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u57	When building the program, we thought that the construction of bridges and bridges, which connect with subsequent public road nodes, was very important. And that's why it was included in the program. It seems to me that also issues concerning defence roads that arise... Repair and adaptation of local roads to defence roads result from our allied obligations and also from the need to move troops in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u58	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u59	Minister, I have a technical question. The programme will be a multi-annual programme. What time will it be for the counties and municipalities to carry out individual tasks if they get the money? We know that there is a n+3 rule for European measures. What's it gonna look like here? How much time will the beneficiary have to carry out the task? Until now, this programme, which we know was subject to annual tasks, i.e. the beneficiary had to fit in for the financial year. What's it gonna be like here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u60	This programme provides for multi-annual tasks. We constructed it so that in this program they can participate in tasks of very high value, up to PLN 30 million of funding. So in such the most... such a slightest effect... that's 60 million zlotys. It must therefore be a multi-annual task. [[But what's the maximum...]] Whatever comes out of the tender. We'll honor all the tendering deadlines. [[So the bill doesn't have any restrictions?]] She's not gonna put any restrictions on her.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u61	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Are you still a senator? Isn't it? [[No. In the middle of a discussion.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rotnicka was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u62	Mr. Marshal, I didn't expect this discussion to happen so soon. I have a brief statement that involves a minority request. We think, because I am one of the co-complainants, they wrote there quite widely one of the amendments which concerns the deletion of the article. 5. Where do the funds of this road fund come from? That's what's probably scored in 11 points. And I would like, ladies and gentlemen, very clearly to defend the fund, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which is expected to introduce a significant amount every year into this programme. Namely, at the moment there is a national program to fight smog, there are so many other things, e.g. the issue of clean waters, which we should guarantee in the environment. And usually local government units are killing for this fund, people are killing for it, so that they can spend money on various investments to protect our climate from pollution and at the same time protect our health. Therefore, in the expectation that perhaps this broad amendment covering all those entities which consist of the Self-Government Road Fund may not be accepted, I would like to make a narrower amendment, which concerns the deletion of point 1 in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, i.e. payments from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Thank you very much... Mr. Marshal, I'm about to submit an amendment to the minutes in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u63	There you go. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years the National Local Road Redevelopment Programme has been implemented. It was then replaced by the "Programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure" for the years 2016-2019. And thanks to it it was created, it was modernised, rebuilt, built many, many roads in Poland. In this first program it was about 15 thousand km of roads. In Wielkopolska, from which I am from and in which I had the opportunity to work with this program, we built, modernised and rebuilt about 1.5 thousand km of these roads. And I have to say that there were very clear criteria. The Commission, which set the order on the list, had certain criteria, had almost no room for manoeuvre. Therefore, according to the applications submitted, depending on whether they were municipal or district roads, there were 2 letters and on the basis of this were granted measures. The situation was clear and transparent and there were no judgments of any political sympathy because there was no possibility. Check it out, see how it worked so far. Similarly, in my opinion, it was with this new programme for 2016 and 2019, which entered into force and was implemented. Now, in the election campaign, it turned out that something had to be done, speeded up, like everywhere, which is practically giving away money, as it was in the campaign, for whatever it was possible. We've been giving out Christmases lately, not just money. As a result, a new program was born, but suddenly, it was quickly created. He is not at all compatible with this program, which has so far been implemented. I think it's forgotten in this program that there's a program that we're doing that could be extended to, that we could only make some changes to, and that we'd get to the same thing. But no, you had to spend more money, so you had to make a new program. And so there are these controversies. as to financing this, the question why to take money from the environmental fund, etc., etc. In my opinion, fundamental errors have been made. Just read the article, please. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which says that the fund manager shall inform the voivodeships, from 1 July to 15 July of the calendar year, of the planned amount of funding for the tasks. Look, that deadline is over. I was talking about these dates for bridges and defence tasks. There's another date: January to March, which means he's ahead of us. If we pass this bill, okay, but if we pass it, the deadline for these municipal and district tasks is just ahead of us. It is therefore unrealistic to implement this. And as it turns out, in the budget we have the money for next year. So it's not compatible with one program with another program. I'm just curious how it's gonna go. If you accept this bill, we will see what it will be like... I am merely signaling it today, so that there will be no doubts and surprises if this program cannot be implemented and implemented in a week or two from now on we will amend the law. 'Cause I don't see any other way out of this. And the procedure itself in this program... Well, the committees have already been changed, there is no representative of the management board of the voivodship, I don't know why there isn't, after all it is clear that it should be there, and so the government... there are two representatives of the Marshal, the building supervisor... But here's the majority. No need, here are the criteria, here are the clear criteria, here's the score, there's no idea that someone has most or a minority... And yes, the voivodships will have a majority on these committees anyway. So I don't know why these maneuvers are being done. And the whole final procedure is amazing. As it turns out, even if all this were to be carried out one by one, at the end is the President of the Council of Ministers, as I said. As if the minister couldn't do it, as it has been. No, there's the President of the Council of Ministers at the end, who has a decisive vote. Well, he can accept this list, he can change it, he can add new tasks. And here there are no criteria. Maybe it's just... That's the record. Without any criteria, without any mode, so to speak, by quoting one of the Members, to change these letters. Then why do these committees, why do these criteria, why do all this work, if at the end of the day someone can change it all, turn it over, so to speak, whole letters or eliminate some... It's completely incomprehensible. That's why this bill that came to us is unacceptable. Without amendments, without any amendments to this law, the way in which the law is implemented is at all threatened with funding. Therefore, it remains only and only if these amendments are not introduced, to vote against this law. And that's really bad, 'cause we'd all like to... One of the senators asked about the state of the county roads. Well, of course he's changing, he's getting better, there's more roads and so on. We've made incredible progress. I was a councilman in the first term of office. The first statistics that were, concerning the voivodship roads, the national roads, it was something amazing, 80% The roads were that you shouldn't drive them at all. Today's the other way around. There's still 15%. roads that really require fast work and allocation of resources, just cannot be allocated in this way, cannot be taken from the environmental fund, where there are also tasks, and shifted from poop to poop, just because it needs to be done quickly. So, in conclusion, I can say that this bill, as it is currently being constructed, in my opinion. That is my opinion, the Minister has a different opinion on this, but we will see how the law will come into force. It's unenforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I am very surprised at the opposition's criticism of this bill. After all, any funding for district and municipal roads is beneficial and good. The Minister said how bad these roads are, how many roads already need repair, how much repair, how much is in bad condition, only 29% It's still pretty good. After all, it is known that the good condition of roads is the safety of road users. It's also about the fact that cars aren't gonna break down like this, because... I had a choice whether to buy a car from Germany or from Poland with the same mileage, I preferred a car from Germany, because I know that the roads there are good and the car will be in better condition. And I would prefer to buy a Polish car, but I know that the car that was driving in Poland is certainly in worse condition just because of this bad state of the roads. As for what Senator Klein said, just to finance these tasks... But how? Then we'd take the money, for example. From education, from health care, from the ZUS? [[No, no, it's the same money, Mr. Senator, only that they should be otherwise distributed.]] Yeah, but it's a special-purpose fund, as the Minister said, and the special-purpose fund is built the way it's built. And now, Senator Florek in one of the amendments, perhaps the most important one, the first one, proposes simply to remove funds from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This is the sum of PLN 1.4 billion a year. Senator Rotnicka also said that this money is needed, for example. for the fight against smog, for other environmental purposes, but taking care of the good condition of roads is also a form of fighting smog. It is known that smog is created to a large extent by cars. If the state of the roads is bad, these cars pass slower and there's a lot of traffic. It's just that they're going slower and more of these fumes are emitted than if the roads were good, so it's also a form of fighting smog. That is why we use these funds for local roads, municipal roads and district roads. As far as MON expenditure is concerned, this 500 million a year, ladies and gentlemen, there was no mention of it here, but these funds can be counted as defence expenditure. We have to spend 2% at all. defence measures, because this is very well seen by the NATO leadership, by President Trump, who praises us for this. If we can spend this money and show that we're spending it on defense right now... Because spending on roads or bridges is also a form of defence spending. It is known that in order for these tanks or other armored vehicles to pass through in the event of a war or in the event of a natural disaster... Well, I guess it's a good thing the Ministry of Defense can spend that money not only on rockets, but also on things that will be widely used by the residents. And this will also be included in the defense budget. It is known that both rural municipalities and district governments have little money for investments at all. Most of the expenditure is fixed expenditure, so any funding, any surcharge, any grant or any support for investment in these local governments is something very good, very beneficial. In total, spending over 14 billion, at least 14.6 billion, will be spent over the last nine to 10 years. That's what we're talking about. I simply face this law here, I support it, and thank the Ministry for coming out with such an initiative to help finance the construction or renovation of district roads and municipal roads. As far as voivodship local governments are concerned, voivodship local governments have much more opportunities than municipal and district local governments. After all, they can benefit from all these programs, which offer the possibility of building or renovating voivodship roads, and therefore do not have such great needs. I mean, there are also needs, but voivodships have more opportunities than just municipalities and powiats. The government supports those who have the least opportunities, especially municipalities and districts, which are the poorest. They'll have up to 80% funding. The richest ones will have funding of at least 50%. If 60 million zlotys are needed for the task, at least 30 million will be co-financed. So that once again I congratulate the government that it cares for these poorest municipalities, for the districts and for the sustainable development of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few sentences of polemics with colleagues. Namely, we all agree that the state of the roads is some measure of civilization development. The data you gave to the Minister is not good with regard to the state that is. 36% is in a very bad state, 35% requires renovation, which is actually 70% The local roads that we are talking about and which this law is talking about require state intervention, rapid intervention. I think the money that's meant to be for this could change the situation dramatically. Of course, you can discuss with the opposition about the sources of funding for this project, but I would like to popolize here for a moment with Senator Flork from the same voivodship, who as a former voivode is well aware of the situation in the voivodship. Here's what I'm gonna say: just before I went into the O.R., I talked to the Commune of Powid... We know what this place is. There is a very large, expanding base of U.S. troops, and a large, huge airport, the largest military airport in this part of Europe. As far as the state of the county roads is concerned, it is hardly said. This is due to the way in which this county is managed, but also by the idea of financing the counties in Poland. The farms have huge problems finding money for road construction. I think the foundation of this program can absolutely help. That is why, I think, this program, if it is implemented as planned, can change the civilization face, as one of the Members of this late Poland recently said, so that this Poland will not be so late. But we're actually talking about a serious problem, and I think... let's let the government act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! I speak and speak at the meeting of the Joint Committees as chairman of the Committee on Local Government, because I believe that the style of separation - I understand the procedure. - I understand the procedure. Unfortunately, it is not in line with the principles of the Constitution, even with the principles of subsidiarity and self-government. It is undisputed that local roads need support. And here's the full agreement. But I do not understand why a proposal was made to adopt a law without amendments, since between the various amendments Mr Senator, who was the rapporteur for minorities, Mr Piotr Florek, made a request that in these awarding committees a representative of the regional road management be the extension of marshal offices, i.e. local authorities. After all, this is about coordination, this is about the voice of the local government, because it turns out that actually the Prime Minister, as I put it, without any mode, because beige no criterion, will decide to get a list and without justification he will be able to change what he wants. But even at this point of opinion, the voice of the self-government is pushed away, in such a way even, I would say, symbolically. I mean, why? Is this gonna ruin something? I understand that the local government mainly deals with its operational programmes, etc. and that it is something additional, but after all we are a unitary state, we are a country which follows certain principles in which is the cooperation of the authorities, the cooperation of the government with the central authorities. I ask: where is this cooperation if this kind of amendment is eliminated? For me, it has a symbolic dimension. And further: why is there no time for local governments to listen to such an important bill? This was mentioned, a former representative of voivodships, talked about it. Why was this not the opinion of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission? Such questions were asked. That's what I'm still asking. Why? It's not like there's anything against a project that's so serious... Well, money's pretty important here, but it's supposed to be an important project. Why do you eliminate the voice of self-government? And yet we see that the regional governments will be in different hands. Is it supposed to be as we hear, that only closer, or so-called. Are non-polluting local governments supposed to be beneficiaries? We take care of the sustainable development of Poland as a whole. The essence of self-government is that this voice is heard. 'Cause I think it's best to be downstairs. I therefore absolutely support this amendment and the other amendments tabled, with an emphasis on this particular amendment. I do not understand why we do not want to accept these amendments, which only improve this law and show that the voice of the local government in this matter should, even in a symbolic way, be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u71	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Rotnicka. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to dispel Senator Flork's doubts. As regards the current local road support and construction project, these are transitional provisions which take into account the... All these investments will be made. I would also like to say that July 1st and July 15th are ahead of us. These are multi-annual and annual tasks, but they don't end at the end of the year, because it's not like the state budget. So that if the task, even for one year, begins on the 15th or 20th, or, say, in September, it may end in September of the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u73	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Marshal, on the basis of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, I would like to request that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Electronic Invoicing Act in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. I propose that we consider him as item twenty-eight of the agenda. I would just like to remind you that there was no controversy in the Seym under this bill. As far as the committee is concerned, so is it. This could not be completed at 9 a.m. because there was no report yet. Thank you very much. [[Alice Hare: Is this the last supplement?)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u75	Thank you very much. Is there an objection? There is no objection, and we are therefore supplementing the agenda with this item. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farming Animals. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 976, and the report of the committee In print No 976 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the committee meeting which took place on the 25th. After a brief discussion, the Commission asks that the law be adopted without amendment. As far as the short information on what this law concerns is concerned, we are talking about insurance of agricultural crops and livestock from a full package of risks or one or several types of risks chosen by the agricultural producer, including the risk of drought, while maintaining the possibility for him to benefit from the State budget from contributions to insurance contracts. The project gives new notes that will change the current sound. I think it's 10%. the value of the damage... And when it comes to the new regulation, it introduces the so-called. franchise, a new arrangement for the payment of compensation in the event of a drought risk, consisting of a reduction of compensation by 20, 25 or 30% of the sum of insurance. It's a so-called rule. reduction franchise. Thus, the agricultural producer will be able to choose the most suitable insurance option for himself. The insurance also includes the risk of drought and will therefore be compensated, in the event of loss of production as a result of drought, at least the cost of production. That's the justification. There wasn't much discussion at the committee meeting, so I'm asking you to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u77	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Sheriff.]] Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. To see the Senator rapporteur. Indeed, there was a very short discussion at the committee meeting, whether there were no specific questions at all, but there are some very concrete doubts, even to say, which require answers. I received such questions from farmers. Does this law guarantee insured farmers and how much drought compensation? So far, the situation has been that since the drought it has been difficult to insure itself. I understand that this bill gives you the possibility of drought insurance. And how much will that compensation be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u79	Thank you. I asked the Minister at the committee meeting, among others. about how this change will have an impact. The answer was simple: insurance companies will determine the conditions. Anyone entering into an insurance contract, even a car, knows what value it represents. It's the same here. He knows what the value of production is. The agreement will determine that. This entry, which is, says that I have to agree if the amount of insurance to be reduced is determined It's 20 or 25 or 30%. If I want to take advantage of it. There is another question that would arise from the question, if insurance companies wish to reduce the premium. And that's an economic thing, too. And this is a matter between a farmer and an insurer, as far as these conditions are... There's no rule in the rule book, at least I didn't find a rule that defines... There is only a rule that the package must not exceed 9% and 12% , depending on the type of soil, etc. And there's no term here. So it's for the negotiations between the insurance company... We know the insurers didn't want to cover the drought at all. And there was no insurance. The exceptions were in those regions where droughts never existed. Well, the stakes were very high. Therefore, this opposite is supposed to give the farmer such a chance that, well, assuming a certain risk of less pay... that the companies will want Maybe they'd like to, let's say here. In the discussion between themselves, bring to an agreement on what this value will be and what compensation will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u80	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Senator Terminski.]] Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u81	Yes, I have a question, although I do not know whether it is for the Senator rapporteur or rather for the Minister. Mr. Senator, what is the average value of losses this year as a result of drought per hectare?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u82	It's hard to say... [[In percent.]] ...what she is because I don't know the data. I know the committees worked, they calculated differently. There are western regions that have a high loss rate, over 70% in some regions it is from 30% to 70% and in some regions there is not even 30%. It depends on the region of Poland. I don't know the statistics, how much does that mean... Maybe you know the minister, he'll say. But how someone used to estimate It was estimated differently that the losses were, as they were calculated, from PLN 1.5 billion to PLN 4 billion, depending on who counted and how they counted. These were all the losses farmers suffered as a result of the drought.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u83	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Terminski. We invite the Minister here. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u84	Thank you. Minister, I would like to ask the exact same question that I have asked your rapporteur. And second question. The government predicted nearly PLN 1 billion this year for subsidies for agricultural insurance contributions. What part of it was used?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u85	Mr. Senator, this first question is really very difficult to answer, because it really depends very much on the region. In individual voivodships, this percentage of losses varies for individual crops. This is based on the climatic water balance in the so-called system. A decade old. The first decade's information begins on 10 April, for each plant variety. The maximum decade term is the end of September, that is for plants so-called. trenches. So the loss at the moment, according to this information about losses, which we receive every week in reports from the regional crisis management centers by Wednesday to 12:00 p.m.... The drought is now about 5.5 million ha. And the average loss is calculated at about PLN 1 thousand 680 per hectare. But as I say, it's for different varieties of plants, ranging from winter cereals, spring cereals, to shrubs, fruit trees, corn for corn, silage, root crops... So, of course, after the compilation of all reports from the voivodship, we will be able to determine the average loss for each plant variety in the given voivodship. As regards the aid for agricultural insurance, the total amount of PLN 850 million is entered in the 2018 budget. At the moment we have signed agreements with 5 agricultural insurance companies and these are agreements at the level of PLN 560 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u86	Thank you very much. I don't see... Mr. Senator Spokesperson. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u87	Thank you very much. I have a quick question. Minister, what companies have entered into reinsurance contracts with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u88	You surprised me, Senator, with that question, but I'll try... [[It could be in writing.]] ...I'll try to answer that. This is definitely a PZU, this is a Post Office, this is a TUW TUW, these are Concordia and InterRisk. That's the five entities. [[Bravo.]] [[No further questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u89	I don't see any more questions to ask. Thank you very much... [[Excuse me, there's Przemek Terminski.]] Senator Terminski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u90	It's a supplementary question. According to what you said, the average value of losses is PLN 1,600 with a piece. That would be about 30%. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Mr. Senator...]] So the average value of losses is actually 30%... we work on thick numbers, because it's not about a particular farmer, it's about agriculture in its entirety. That would point to 30%.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u91	Senator, if you look at the structure of agricultural fields in the Republic of Poland, you will see that we have about 14 million hectares. $5 million is coming out, to be honest, a little more than 30%. The arithmetic is very simple here. [[And how many hectares are insured?]] Three million, right? 3 million ha are insured. [[Three and a half, for the record. And how many hectares are insured for drought? Is that the kind of country you have?]] Mr. Senator, for the moment, as the last report shows, we have 162 contracts for drought. That's why it's proposed to be reduced... [[But how many acres? Hektars, Minister.]] Mr. Senator, we're proposing a reduced franchise, which is so-called. reduction franchise. This is 20, 25 or 30% of the insurance amount. The effect of reduced franchise will reduce insurance premiums so that this insurance system, when it comes to the negative atmospheric phenomenon of drought, is simply much more accessible. And if the franchise drops by 30%, the policy's price will be approx. 30%, for 25%, ca. 22% , and with reduction franchise reduced by 20% there will be a reduction in the contribution by around 15% . There is no such thing that there is a specific scheme that insurance companies most often insure in a particular area of our country, where this drought may be least felt, e.g. This is the result of forecasts or studies of previous years. It's just that contributions are way too high. And if, for example, insurance of a hectare on the risk of hail costs about 10 PLN to a maximum of 19 PLN and from drought It is well known that the farmer is thinking very strongly about insurance against this risk. That is why, in cooperation with those who have signed agreements with the Minister of Agriculture, we have worked on a legislative project to introduce this reduction franchise, which will allow insurance to be disseminated in terms of the risk of drought.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u92	Minister, I'm sorry, and where did you get these calculations, so precise, to the decimal place, as far as contributions fall in the event of this type of franchise being introduced? Because it's such a precise calculation that it's amazing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u93	Mr Senator, the bill was of course consulted with the social side, and was also consulted with insurance companies, among others. agricultural insurance. Those entities have carried out such an analysis if they are able to reduce the contributions due to the introduction of the reduction franchise. So it's not an analysis done in the ministry, it's an analysis done exclusively. Of course, the analysis was carried out in the Ministry of Agriculture, but with the participation of those involved in insurance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u94	Okay, Minister, last two questions. The first question is: why are agricultural chambers against this law? That's the first question. And the second question is, what is the average percentage of the agricultural insurance rate right now? Because you gave two values: 19 PLN, 100 PLN at risk of drought. I understand that you were only talking about the part paid by the farmer, without the State Treasury. But what's the average bet right now? Such an analysis must be carried out by the State, for example, given the amount of the aid.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u95	Mr. Senator, I don't know how you feel about the fact that the agricultural government is against this project on what grounds... [[On their website.]] I happen to be involved in cooperation with the agricultural government, and I have a range of activities to do. I'm sorry, but I haven't seen that kind of opinion. Perhaps something has appeared or is a declaration on a website, and it is not an official letter to the Minister of Agriculture. I do not hide that the agricultural government also worked on this bill, in this amendment of the law. On the other hand, Mr. Senator, allow me to answer this question in writing. [[Okay, please. The agricultural chambers are referred to in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law which was declared in the Sejm. And it says the farmhouses are against it. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill it is written so that...]] Mr. Senator, after all, I feel that this bill has received the approval of the social side, which is why we have submitted it to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u96	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Terminski. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! This bill is a big step forward, a huge step forward in the insurance lobby, an insurance lobby. Not once a year ago, we changed the content of the Agricultural Insurance Act, raising insurance rates almost three times. As a result, the rates on the market increased three times as much as possible, while protection from the risk of drought still did not occur. Today, insurers come and say, let's introduce franchises. What are these franchises? An additional profit for insurance companies, nothing more. If the state as a government side expects the introduction of franchises to increase the availability of insurance, then you are in deep error. Please note that if the rates were up to 6%, 3.5 million ha were insured in Poland. And how the stakes went up to 15% We're still covering 3.5 million ha. Once we introduce 30% franchise, we will continue to cover 3.5 million ha, because the aim of insurers is not to transfer money to farmers, but to increase transfers to each other. The calculations of the agricultural chambers that I invoke here. Let me use the memo, which points to the following. If we assume that the risk of drought is 40% The average risk of drought in Poland is not even 30% long-term, but let's assume that it is 40% This is, for example, an example. for wheat production in the absence of franchise... otherwise, in the absence of insurance, the loss of the farmer will be about PLN 1 thousand 300. If a farmer insures himself in this option with 30% franchise, his loss will be The attention of about 800 zł, but he will have to pay a contribution. This contribution, including the payment from the budget, means that this amount is again at the level of nearly PLN 1 thousand 300. If we multiply all of this data now through all of these values and take into account that the average value of drought in Poland is about 30%, and we introduce 30% franchises, and multiply by 3.5 million ha, then what number will we get? We'll get there. Attention about 1 billion subsidies from the State Treasury. The whole idea the insurers have presented is to download as much as possible... to optimize the amount of subsidies they will receive. And those transfers won't go to the farmers, they'll stay with the insurers. This is how this recipe is constructed. Therefore, there were my questions about all these averages, because we operate on great numbers, so we have to rely on statistics. Minister, you have succumbed to the lobby of insurers, which has convinced you that this solution will lower the rate. Well, maybe I will, only that if we set the rate of drought insurance at 25% with a 0% franchise It's at 30% franchise. the same insurance rate may be 15% , i.e. how much is today's attention The maximum rate with payment from the State Treasury. And the farmers are back up against the wall because everything is above 15%. Unfortunately, it will not be covered by the State Treasury. And farmers are already pulling out of these insurances today. The only chance to improve the situation on the agricultural market is to promote insurance in the agricultural insurance market. And we're not going to spread insurance by making the conditions of agricultural insurance worse. First we've made it worse by raising the stakes, and now we're making it worse by introducing de facto mandatory franchises, because insurers will benefit from these franchises. Why would they benefit? 'Cause they can, 'cause why not use it? These are private profit-oriented companies, and why wouldn't they benefit from that? The only chance is to promote insurance or change the formula of subsidies. In the law you write about subsidies to agricultural income, I do not know why, by calling it reinsurance, by way of reinsurance is a different concept at all, I would advise you to read what reinsurance is. However, agricultural income subsidies will result in real transfers to agriculture. The contribution payments result in real transfers of li to insurers only. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u98	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls... [[There it is, there it is. Mr. Grzegorz Bierecki.]] Senator Bierecki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My colleague Senator, the previous speaker, made very good remarks. It's hard for me to disagree with that. Nevertheless, moving on the basis of this law, it must be said that, in principle, it is difficult to solve the problem that my previous colleague has perfectly outlined in this model of working insurance for farmers. Yes, indeed: by adding to the insurance premium, we actually add to the profits of insurance companies. Now this law also reduces the cost of compensation payments, which is from 2 pages we add to the profits of insurance companies. Can this problem be solved? Can the issue of insurance, or maybe more insurance, to take a different concept and not confuse these two things, be solved differently? Yeah, it could be solved differently. For many years, governments have been making the same mistake because they are discussing the issue of insurance or the protection of farmers' income with insurance companies. Insurance companies are profit-oriented organisations, they are organisations that estimate risks to their owners, so as if they are not the right partner to solve the social problem we are discussing. In many countries in the old European Union there are so-called. income guarantee funds for farmers. The Netherlands is an excellent example here, the Italians have it, the French have it. There's another philosophy, where the government pays for the compensation paid, not for the contribution. These funds, acting on a reciprocal basis, are not profit-oriented, operate in a structure similar to the cooperative structure. Perhaps it is worth taking advantage of these experiences, it is worth to see why in such a country as the Netherlands there is almost no insurance for agricultural crops or agricultural production, but almost all agricultural producers belong to these funds to guarantee farmers' income. Because what we're interested in is guaranteeing the income of the farm, the income of the farmers. This model, which has now been in force for many years, should be abandoned, should be treated as a complementary model. We should reach out to other solutions that work perfectly and which would be cheaper for the Treasury. There's a lot of documentation on that. Nevertheless, I know that in previous years the insurance lobby, which was very strong in Poland, was able to convince other solutions, was a fear of introducing another model and thus another institution into Poland. But experience is good, European regulations are available. There are also EU funds allocated from the European budget, governments receive funding for these compensation payments, to pay those compensations that they receive. There's a whole mechanism here. I would like to appeal to the Minister to look at these solutions as soon as possible. The aim is also to provide us with a written answer, an answer on the possibility of introducing solutions like the Dutch ones, and also an answer to the question of why, when implementing the EU directive, the Polish government in the previous term of office did not decide to launch the so-called model. mutual funds, because, according to the incorrect translation of the directive, they are called mutual funds guaranteeing farmers' incomes. There's the concept of mutual funds, translated, nonsensically of course... It's a completely different institution. So I am telling the Minister that we have a translation error that introduces a completely different institution, and we are talking about mutual funds guaranteeing farmers' incomes. This was not introduced, this part of the directive was not introduced into the Polish legal order. Why? We'd be interested, we'd like to know. We ask, however, for the government's written position on this matter, which might be the basis for the work. Maybe we should draft a bill together with the Agriculture Commission, Mr. Senator. I say this by referring to my integrity and my insurance experience. I've worked in insurance for many years. I know this market very well. This model, which is currently being used, does not serve farmers. He serves insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, there have already been clear statements here... I don't want to appeal very much to them, but the RI Solidarity Association called for a comprehensive amendment to the Agricultural and Animal Insurance Act. I think it is time, Minister, to take these measures, because such partial actions actually lead to some marginalisation of encouraging farmers to insurance. Let us remember that the government has declared, at least at the moment, 1.5 billion PLN for the effects of drought. This is a declaration, and how much will be used, we will see, because it was different with these assessments, the implementation of the committee, etc. The losses are great, but we'll never get that kind of support from the government that would guarantee that farmers will get... In the same way, at the moment, this partial change will, in my opinion, be regarded as a relationship between RI and Solvency, giving only the chance that companies, entities, might want to enter into insurance. They're not gonna do much to lower their premiums, they're just gonna want to get into the drought insurance. In my opinion, in our relationship, that's pretty much what it looks like. She's not gonna lower the actual premium, and it's gonna be applied... well, we're gonna use this moment that you're gonna have an entrance a little lower than we've given you before. You have to look at the extent to which they offered us these contributions. I've said many times that the first solution we've put in place... I don't remember if it was 2006; I might be wrong about the date. Anyway, we only introduced five risks at the time. And when we introduced these five risks, the premium was five percent or so, the maximum contribution could be about 6% with a 50% surcharge. Today is 65%. State subsidies, with a change in the size of insurance, for more risks, probably up to 10 if I'm not mistaken. That's what makes them 9% contributions. and 15% depending on the classification of the land. And that makes contributions very high for farmers, because if anyone wants the whole package, they have to pay a minimum of 9%. or 15% And where there are weaker land, the more you need to be insured. So that's not attractive. I propose we return to the discussion about the reinsurance mechanism. I remember that in the previous law there was a provision that the State in the event of a sudden overshoot of the level of risk in case of severe drought, so that the companies don't die. Perhaps it is necessary to consider whether such disasters should not be done in this way. And so from the state budget we declare a billion and a half this year. Or maybe it's worth giving insurance and in case of major disasters to support companies only in connection with actual losses. I would like to point out here that this demand for agricultural solidarity has been and is being made. We are ready to talk, to negotiate, to take further action. The next element is... I remember perfectly well the conference that we held together with the Economic Commission. This was done by the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Economy with Mr Kleina. We talked there about the availability of insurance companies' offers on the market because the companies don't want to come in here. There was a proposal to create a small TUW, because it's farmers who know how they work. Let's just change the law. Let's make a law that gives us the opportunity to register and operate small TUWs. After that, they could still connect or not connect, but at least they could work. What's the mechanism? The mechanism is that in order to register a small TUW, you have to meet the conditions for a large TUW. So there's no chance of that. If I wanted to create this as a relationship... That's what he does. Coldiretti, one of the strongest Italian unions who is trying to help farmers in the field of insurance. If I can't wear a little TUW because I don't meet the requirements because I have to do... First I have to register him, then I have to be active for a year, then I have to have three years of experience... I'm sorry. There will be no TUW in life. We proposed at the conference and now we propose that the government examine whether the rules should be amended. The Minister won't sign the agreement if the TUW has no experience. Well, I'm asking. After all, this is a barrier for farmers to organize themselves and for them to create TUW themselves. And let me remind you that in the 1990s, solidarity offered a small TUW. The law, which is it, deprives farmers of the chance to organize themselves, so that they carry the risk on themselves and that there are no cons. If a group of farmers determine something for themselves, one of them will have no intention of cheating because they will bear the costs themselves. I'm paying attention to this element. We have already worked on this with the Economic Commission once, and we have shown some solutions. Maybe it's worth going back to that, going through the materials from our conference and thinking about changing the law so as to give farmers a chance to self-organize themselves in the field of insurance. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u102	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Surprisingly agreed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with interest to this discussion, especially the statements of my fellow senators, Senator Terminski, Bierecki and Chróścikowski. And after hearing these votes, I decided to file a motion to reject the bill. She is indeed a law that is beneficial only for one environment. It's the least for farmers. After all, the idea was that this law should serve farmers in the first place and that it could solve the problems that pose risks in agriculture. In the discussion there was also an interesting voice of Senator Chróścikowski concerning mutual societies, small TUWs, which could actually operate in these areas. Today we are talking about agriculture, but there are many other areas of life where such mutual societies could function. I think that the voices that were so important, both from the Law and Justice side and from the Civic Platform... The bill is bad in the sense that it gives income mainly to insurance companies, and to a small extent solves the problems of farmers. This law must simply be rejected at this stage. It is right that we continue to debate these matters. It can indeed prepare a new initiative in the Senate. The second thing that came to my mind, or actually your attention to the marshal, is that it often happens that the laws are directed only and exclusively to the committees of industry or those for which probably the marshal Or maybe not the marshal, but the people who tell him that it is only there that it is necessary to direct it, although the laws are clearly such that they are beyond the scope of this one narrow committee. This bill is a classic example of this. She should be on the Committee on National Economy, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, so that someone can look at her as if from the outside, not just through the perspective of their environmental experiences. That's how it is today. We're about to debate the Law on November 12th. The law, which has such a diverse dimension, was addressed to the Committee on Culture, not to the Committee on National Economy, not to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, but to the Committee on Culture, a law whose consequences are far beyond culture. But I'm not gonna talk about it anymore, so let's get smarter people who know these things better. I am simply asking the marshal here to ask his services to examine to whom the laws really need to be addressed, so that the broader context of such a law can be found, and those elements which some will see, and others will not see. The debate itself is too short for a better analysis of these issues. I'm filing a motion to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u104	Thank you, Senator. Senator Chróścikowski. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: But...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Terminski, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Don't take personally those charges that the senators are filing. I understand that as representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, you are simply trying to save the situation in this poor situation that has occurred, and because of this reluctance of insurers from the insurance market to conclude drought insurance contracts. But please review the statistics, review the financial data and note that from the position of the farmer the biggest problem with insurance, including the risk of drought, is, of course, a contribution, and from the position of insurers Aversion to the accumulation of risks in a given area. Here's the thing. For example, with me, in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, with these low subsidies farmers had the opportunity to insure 10,000 ha, while with high subsidies, with these high premiums they could still insure 10,000 ha, because just insurers do not want to insure more hectares, even though they get three times as much money for it. And that's not gonna change after the franchise. In the matter of this law, we see Here I am pleasantly surprised. This is, you can say, a nationwide compatibility, because both insurance professionals, like Senator Bierecki or my humble person, as well as farmers, like Senator Chróścikowski, Senator Klein, indicate that this law does not have any positive effects. On the other hand, Minister, the risk of drought is covered in the spring, i.e. that we have six months to sit down and think about developing a more comprehensive and coherent product, one that will include the union of membership reciprocity that Senator Bierecki was talking about, or the mutual insurance company that Senator Chróścikowski was talking about, or commercial insurance or some mix of these three institutions that will complement themselves and finally ensure a decent, fair and effective transfer of public funds to farmers. Because the purpose of agricultural insurance payments is to increase transfers to farmers, not increase transfers to insurance companies. A compromise must be found here which, on the one hand, will safeguard the interests of farmers and, on the other hand, will not allow excessive concentration of funds on the part of insurance companies. The Minister speaks well, now there are 5 insurance companies in the game. But in practice, none of these five insurance companies address the issue of insurance universality. Even the great state PZU, as it can, so limits its commitment to agricultural insurance. If it could, it wouldn't cover it at all, but it must; politically it must, but if it could, it wouldn't. TUW Post Office, which was designated as an agricultural insurance entity a year ago, is doing absolutely marginal and sham operations on the agricultural insurance market. Other insurers operate strictly commercial, based on the profitability of capital and the search for profits. That is why I call on you, particularly the Senators of the ruling block, to consider Senator Kleina's proposal and to actually postpone this bill today and, for this reason, sit down and, for the winter, re-enter a new draft document, which will take into account all the doubts raised, the comments submitted and the ideas submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u106	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It wasn't my intention to say this bill was wrong. My intention was to talk about what needs to be done in the future, how to solve the problem, because we know exactly what the situation is for insurance companies. Please pay attention to the historical view of what it looked like in previous years. There were years when there were violent frosts, those companies that insured were more expensive than what they collected as an insurance premium. I understand that, so I understand their concerns. Well, that's what happened, the results were shown, and we were checking it out, and we saw that companies paid more compensation than they raised their contributions, so these companies were suffering losses. I get it. But the universality of insurance must be introduced as much as possible. We're talking about another element that is and shows... Well, Senator Bierecki... Senator Bierecki is right, but Poland is not the Netherlands. In the Netherlands there is a system in which full agricultural accounting is introduced and in the full agricultural accounting system it is possible to introduce... In Poland farmers do not conduct full agricultural accounting, so they are not able to prove... to calculate the insurance of their income. I will give an example when we took part as a committee in an away meeting, when the same drought in the voivodship, which was mentioned here, i.e. in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship... In one of the state-owned companies where full accounting was carried out, losses in the case of class I and II land, calculated by the company, amounted to That's how it's been passed on to us, to the board of directors of 13%. And in the same voivodship... Land classes show differences, because drought in the case of Class I doesn't cause great losses, but in the case of Class V, losses are huge. So here you have to analyze certain things and show these elements, consider how to solve this problem again, comprehensively. This law still needs to be notified to the European Commission. She doesn't come in immediately, she still needs to have a notification from the Commission. Therefore, all these actions of the government are right, because we see what companies operating in the market are doing. And coming up to meet us, we give proposals as an agricultural solidarity, which has been talking about this for years now... I have repeatedly, during the work of our Senate Committee, as well as working together with the Economic Commission, talked about this. And I propose alternative solutions. There is a great discussion ahead of us about how to tackle the effects of drought or how to counteract the effects of drought, farmers also talk about security, water, etc., etc., and there is also a question of a good insurance system. So that we have hard work ahead of us to even say that for years, but now we have to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u108	Thank you. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u109	We have here a typical example of a discussion in which we talk about something better, which is the enemy of good. After all, we do not claim that this tool we are using now must be immediately thrown out that the law must be rejected. But here, from the substantive discussion, we're about to become political... That wasn't a good conclusion, Senator Kleina. [[There's no policy...]] Yeah, we were just talking about something that might be, and what we could do to make it better, not something that's working right now, to eliminate it immediately. Well, I've been driving a small fiat for many years, and now I have one, but I also drive other cars. And I drove this little fiat to places I wanted to go. But it is with pleasure to drive other cars, to drive different brands better. Nevertheless, I still have this little fiat. And that's what you need to... And that's the approach I represent here. This rejection request is not appropriate. It's more complicated than you'd think. This is a matter of our relations with the European Commission too, the issue of notification of the systemic change we are talking about. This system change cannot be implemented immediately. We can work on it, and that's our intention. We speak in good faith. As far as the small TUWs are concerned, I must tell the senator that, following changes in insurance regulation at European level, namely Solvency, it is a very difficult task to conduct insurance business in the form of a small TUW throughout Europe. Therefore, the Dutch, the French, the Italians have found another solution for themselves, which is carried out by institutions that are not insurance companies. They're not. This is another solution that is easier, more understandable for agricultural producers, but gives the effect that everyone expects. It guarantees income for farmers. As far as the accounts you mentioned are concerned, I would like to say that at the moment small entrepreneurs who perform services, e.g. The plumber who comes to my house and fixes the plumbing uses the accounting service that the bank offers them. They have accounts at the bank. The bank gets them all this through bank overlays. So it can be considered whether cooperative banks that are looking for their place in the market, their role in the market, should not notice the possibility that would be greater, better service to farmers. Solutions exist. We can use the technology that helps us. But what's important? You have to change the model and not add to the contribution. We should pay compensation and these compensations should be correctly calculated. The change in the philosophy of payment will reduce budget expenditure, increase the universality of this insurance and will be a lasting, significant change. Minister, we are at your disposal. We'll be happy to cooperate. Perhaps, in fact, Senator Chróścikowski, we should take this initiative. We have been talking about this for many years, our partners are changing in conversations, and the project has not yet been born. As you say, do it yourself. Yes? Do it yourself. Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u110	Thank you, Senator. There you go. Senator Chróścikowski, corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u111	I would like to tell Senator Bierecki here that there is a lot of right in what he says, but the system that is in Poland is long-lasting and a change in the tax system... In agriculture, we have a flat-rate tax system. The transition to full tax, profitable is ahead of us, but this is a long-term challenge. It's been tried for many years, but it hasn't changed. This still requires a long period of reflection and a change in the tax system in agriculture. If we break the barrier, maybe we can talk about it. I repeat all the time that even European Union legislation has imposed simplified activities on us in the use of RDPs, but there is still plenty of time to put in place a full accounting system. I understand ease... It's about changing the tax system in agriculture. [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u112	Senator Bierecki, corrigendum to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u113	Yes, I'd like to correct. Of course I do not postulate weapons, Lord God, so that all farmers will immediately have full accounting. This is not necessary to estimate revenue. As can be estimated from flat-rate income, this is how small farmers' income can be estimated without full accounting. It's important that the message doesn't go that I suddenly want to include farmers in the full accounting system. No. Based on the data that are generated, it can be done. That's my opinion. I can do that. I'm ready to show it later in committee work and discuss it. I don't think we should go into that kind of detail in plenary. In my opinion, there is no need for full accounting to achieve the effect I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u114	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not wish to prolong the discussion on this point, but I must refer to what Senator Bierecki said. There was no policy in my speech, that was not the intention. Just all of you gentlemen. You said exactly the same thing, i.e. that this law does not serve farmers but serves insurance companies. Maybe the farmers are gonna get a little better, that's not gonna be 100%. exclude, but the main beneficiaries of this law are insurance companies, and, as I say, the area of insured land will not change, as Senator Terminski said. If we have time, it doesn't make sense to say so, to absorb everyone right now, so that this bill goes through, and the president, to sign it, and someone there to publish it, and someone else to carry out the whole notification procedure. This is the absorption of employees, officials, people. It is better to spend this time writing a new law that will serve farmers and insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u116	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Przemysław Terminski and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. The discussion is closed... [[Legislative proposals.]] Oh, legislative proposals, of course. You have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Kazimierz Klein. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No.]] Thank you. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Tax Law, and some other laws. The text of the law is contained in print No. 970 and the report of the committee In print No 970 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Act in Senate print No. 970, i.e. The law on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on corporation tax and the Act on tax liability and certain other laws is a government project. This proposal provides for the implementation of the provisions of the General Tax Avoidance Clause Directive by introducing: preferential taxation of income generated by intellectual property rights, specific arrangements relating to the acquisition by economic operators of sets of claims, alternative means of taxation of eurobonds, taxation of virtual currency revenues, taxation of income from unrealised profits, so-called. exit tax. The Commission, after its meeting yesterday, on 25 October, requests the adoption of a law without amendment. The committee was also attended by representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors who submitted their comments to this law. They also received positions and conclusions from the NSZZ National Commission, which calls for the introduction of a very interesting exemption...I'm sorry, not a waiver, but the possibility of paying in the cost of obtaining the revenue for membership contributions in trade unions. The Minister took this position with interest and this issue will be discussed in the next revision. There was also a letter from the National Credit and Savings Co-operative Casino on the way in which the super-obligations held by the National Bank were presented, and the impact of this on transfer pricing requirements. The Minister's position presented to the committee was that this issue could be resolved by means of a general interpretation to which the Minister had committed himself. at the meeting. For these reasons, none of the senators accepted the proposed amendments. As I mentioned at the outset, the committee proposes to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u118	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: If necessary...]] It's not necessary. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any questions? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. [[The question is, Senator Klein...]] [[No, the question isn't, it's just a request for discussion.]] Good. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we were working on this bill, a very important, extremely difficult bill. Notice that no one has asked a question about this bill. So often it is with us in the Senate, but also in the Seym, that the more difficult the bill, the more complicated, the more important the discussion is, less questions. There was one more thing about it. The law passed by the Sejm very quickly, was passed in the Sejm 2 days ago, and last night we received the text of this law and started working on it. I applied to postpone the debate on this bill to the next Senate meeting. I've applied for it, but this motion has failed. I asked the president why this is our way of working on this law. The only answer was this: because that's what you ordered the marshal to do. The Act is to enter into force on 1 January. I do not deny this, none of us deny that such a law should enter into force, but it could be passed at the November meeting. Then there is also a session of the Sejm, and if there were amendments, it would be time for the Sejm to accept them, and we, the senators, would at least have the opportunity to read the bill. I'm sure none of you... Mr Bierecki may be the only one who has read this bill, its justification, its opinion, etc., but no one else. So we're going to vote on an important bill because we're introducing a new tax, raising taxes, changing a lot of different recipes, without any discussion. We should discuss tax laws at least a little bit. Yesterday also the Legislative Bureau, because it is obliged to always present its opinion on the laws we are working on... The legislator said that he read it briefly and is unable to present a legislative opinion, but he has doubts that some of the provisions are not non-constitutional. He didn't say it for sure, but he said where the doubts were, and he said he only read the bill briefly. This bill I don't want to come back for her to show it to you. It's a big bill. The Legislative Office should have time to read it, read it, analyze it, help us so that we can consciously discuss this law. We as the Civic Platform in the Sejm did not fight this law, we did not say that we were opposed to it, perhaps even colleagues from the Civic Platform abstained in voting on this law, also having those allegations that I am talking about here, i.e. speed, lack of consultation, etc. There wasn't even a full consultation of social factors, but it's kind of another case. Well, it's really sad and difficult. As I say, this is a bill that introduces a new tax, a new tax. By the way, if we had analysed these last three years of the rule of law and justice and asked a little bit about how many taxes the PiS had raised, how many new ones had been introduced, it would have turned out that there was a lot of this, and we had announced that taxes would be reduced and none would be introduced. But the practice sometimes is that the rhetoric of the time of the campaign or the rhetoric of the opposition is that it's said that we're just gonna do people right, and when we get to power, The piss does that, we can see that. It's doing exactly the opposite of what you proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we do in this situation? I'm making two amendments. I told you yesterday that there'd be adjustments like this. I didn't know exactly how to edit such an amendment, because, as I say, there was so much time that there was no way to do it, which is why I announced that I would do it today. I also asked your legislator to work on these initial proposals so that he could lead them to real shape. And we're going to try to implement these amendments. We want to support this bill, but we want some of the elements that I'm going to briefly mention here to find their place in the bill. First of all, these are 2... practically 3 amendments, but as if in 2 groups, I propose to delete the changes introduced to the tax regime, which include, first of all, an amendment to the general clause against tax avoidance and individual interpretation rules and additional tax obligations and tax reporting obligations. That's the problem. I'm sure for a country that isn't too interested in these tax issues, it's going to be a little bit of black magic, I'm sorry, it's not a charge, it's just everybody specializes in different things. This is a large, difficult obligation imposed on them, the deadlines they have to implement under this law are relatively short, maximum 30 days, and the liability of tax advisors is very high. And a second group. The second and third amendments amend the exit tax, i.e. on unrealised profits, in particular by deferring the obligation to pay the tax until the actual disposal of the assets. So it's kind of a reversal of the rule that was proposed in the bill. She doesn't reduce any load. This proposal does not mean that there will be any funds, tax obligations that will not affect the budget, but changes this mechanism, that it will only be paid at a later date. This law also introduces for the first time the taxation of virtual currencies. What may be a domain of the activity of a very narrow group of people today... This seems to be the right solution. If it works in practice, we'll see. So I would like to ask you to accept the amendments that I am proposing here. It seems to me that it would depend on whether our club in the Senate would support this bill or not. And in the future, I ask you one more time... I ask your marshal and your marshal's service again not to put us in such a position that difficult, complicated laws make us consider without being able to read the bill, not even from day to day, but from hour to hour. You just don't give the Senators in charge or the Senators in the opposition a chance to read the bill. This is a practice absolutely bad. We're gonna do this. And you'll remember. They have experienced in the past because we as opposition senators have made various kinds of comments in different situations. There's no discussion, there's nothing, we force and we vote. After two months, you come... Of course, you don't explain yourself then, you just say the amendment of the bill. And it'll be an even better solution. Assuming what we've done here, they've offered... That's when it goes through. It's a waste of effort for all the services one at a time. It's better to wait, wait, discuss, analyze, argue even at the committee meeting, but do what should be done, do it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u120	Thank you, Senator. I ask Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u121	Thank you very much. In my report, I did not provide any information relevant to the senators, which we heard at the meeting from the Minister. The question of what revenue we expect to have in the budget for the introduction of this law is 1 billion 400 million, right? I remember it well. 1 billion 400 million. I took the liberty of saying, at this committee meeting, if there's 1 billion 400 million, I'm gonna be in a hurry, right? Then I'll be in a hurry. We need... [[But one doesn't bother the other.]] ...that money. The Sejm Calendar, the Senate, everyone knows. We know that we need to adopt this at this meeting so that this law can apply from 1 January. And it's a good thing she's gonna apply. An interesting discussion with tax advisors showed how to think about the profession of tax advisors. Well, if tax advisors are afraid of reporting tax optimization schemes and claim that 30 days is not enough This is a normal administrative deadline, 30 days to pass on a prepared, previously thought out scheme of tax optimization... That's enough time. I would also like to say that this 30-day deadline is included in the EU directive on cross-border operations. Besides, the minister at the committee meeting gave us this information. So the claim that 30 days isn't enough is absolutely unfounded. As for tax advisors, when this profession was created, no one had the intention of creating a professional group that would work to teach how to avoid taxes. That's not what this professional group is for. Besides, we say it's a profession of public trust. If we are to trust public tax advisors, then we need to know that they are working for the good of our country. Yes? Those tax advisors are supposed to help taxpayers identify tax problems in the taxpayer's activities, which taxpayers might, for example, have. I didn't notice. So that's like, uh... they're making some kind of transaction and they're not quite sure what taxes will be in place for this transaction. And that's what counsellors are for, to precisely indicate what these taxes are and to help taxpayers be good taxpayers. Well, it's certainly not a professional group to organize a national tax avoidance sport because it ends badly for every country. We can see that there are countries in the world and in the EU that have adopted just such customs by organising national sports tax avoidance. So that's what I wanted to draw your attention to, because we saw at the committee meeting that there was still a shadow of such an old mentality, an old way of thinking about tax advisors, when advisors dated customers for a percentage of what the customer wouldn't pay the tax office. Well, those contracts were made. It's not like we should tolerate this. We shouldn't tolerate this. This isn't a race for who else won't pay. It's supposed to be reliable advice to taxpayers on how to comply with existing law to the detriment of... I'm sorry, without damage to the budget, for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After all, we do not want our taxpayers to make mistakes in their companies, mistakes due to ignorance, lack of competence, sufficient competence. That's why we need tax advisors. Yeah, they're needed. They are needed, but their role as people who perform a profession of public trust must be defined with benefit for the Polish state. So many of my comments. I fully support the position of the committee which is asking for this law to be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u122	Thank you, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we do not support the criminal activity of anyone, including tax advisors. If they abuse laws, act illegally and use the law to lead to some dishonesty, then it must absolutely be pursued with all the power and severity of the law. And none of us have any doubts about that. I'd like to add one more thing. The law that we are debating is part of the implementation of the EU directive, but this is the implementation that goes far beyond the scope of the directive, because it introduces corporate taxation into the directive, and we also transfer it to individuals. It is also worth paying attention to and remembering. So that here the Ministry of Finance comes out, so to speak, very strongly and very widely beyond this scope, implementing this directive and developing it creatively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u124	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Kazimierz Klein. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 971, and the report of the Commission In print No 971 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws is included in Senate Print No 971, and the report of the committee In print No 971 A. This law was also created on the basis of a government project. The purpose of this law is to simplify tax law on income taxes. It goes on, among other things. for the reduction of CIT, the relaxation of provisions on preferential taxation of spouses and single parents. In addition, the Act amends the conditions of use of the so-called. the housing allowance and repeals the information and registration obligations in respect of lump sums from the revenues recorded from rentals. The Sejm passed this bill on October 23rd. Our committee considered this law on 25 October at the same meeting at which we discussed the previous act. The discussion of this law was actually a continuation of the discussion on the earlier law, which we have concluded. After ... [[The other way around.]] Yeah, the other way around. I'm sorry. Yeah, that was... That's where we started. Together, we discussed both of these laws, so actually the information concerning the course of the meeting which I provided, when presenting a report on the previous law, is valid also for this part of the meeting and the work on this law. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u126	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. [[It's all clear.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any questions? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. There you go. Minister, in that case, I'd like to see you here. [[If you don't mind, Minister...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Kleina...]] Mr. Senator, stand by the speaker. [[Come on in.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u127	Senator Klein, in his speech during the discussion of the previous law, said that we raise taxes and make life difficult for taxpayers. It is this law that I am putting down taxes and important facilitations in the functioning of taxpayers. Would the Minister like to mention these facilitations and the reductions that this bill brings? It's in the context of such a discussion... [[It's not exactly like that.]] ...the bill. [[You're a raspberry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u128	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u129	Of course, Mr. Senator, I'll exchange it now. The main facilitation that this law provides is to reduce the corporate income tax rate to 9% for so-called companies. small taxpayers, i.e. those companies with a turnover of up to EUR 1.2 million. We're still considering raising this threshold, but it's kind of a different issue, and we're gonna do it in a different time frame. As far as other important matters are concerned, this is, for example. The fact that we're raising the depreciation limit for passenger cars for business. Currently it amounts to 82 thousand PLN. This is expressed in euro, so different this amount comes out, but this limit hasn't been raised in a dozen years. We raise it to 150 thousand PLN. Of course, we put it in such a way that... we want this car to be at a cost, within the limits of this 150 thousand PLN, not that there's a car at a cost, for example. for PLN 300,000. So this is a limit that seems to us to be a limit on honest ones, one that will allow us to buy a car that meets all the safety requirements, but doesn't have any super luxury. We're talking about a passenger car. Because there are no restrictions on business cars that apply strictly to business cars. There's a couple of these great facilities for individuals. Namely, such a long-term problem connected with the fact that the submission of joint settlement of PIT after the deadline deprived the right to benefit from the relief for spouses... Of course, the same was true of single parents. We introduce a provision that will make these people not be relieved. You will be able to submit your PIT after the deadline, submitting it within the deadline will not be a condition for using the joint settlement. We make it easier for individuals to inherit real estate. Now is the condition that it takes five years to inherit, so to speak, to hold the property, to own it, so that you can benefit from the relief. We count this term from the initial acquisition by the heir or by the donor. It's something that I think meets your needs. The senator asked about the tax reduction. And maybe I'll mention the earlier bill, the one we've already closed on, I'm talking about print number 970. There's a reduction there, too. It's where the so-called. IP BOX regime. This is about income from intellectual property rights, which we want to tax at a rate of 5%. In the Polish legal system there was no such low rate for income. We're going here according to the world trend. This is not the lowest rate in Europe, but one of the lowest rates. We are at the forefront of those who reduce tax on these revenues the most. And why are we doing this? Therefore, in order to support an activity that aims to create intellectual property rights, i.e. those that bring the most revenue and can really move our economy forward. We talked yesterday at the committee meeting mainly about seals, about this, let's say, a bit of a bitter face of the rules we're introducing. But they also contain many such solutions that help business in the direction. And these are really such good, proven solutions that will also help the Polish economy. And we hope that they will simply bring very positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u130	Thank you. Senator Przemysław Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u131	Mr. Marshal, I have three questions. But I would like it to be in such a sequence that I would ask a question, and the Minister would answer, because the content of the next question depends on the Minister's answer. Minister, the first question: are these 9 percentage points you are introducing as a tax scale, that is what this year is as 15% ?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u132	Yes, Senator. This is... [[It's from companies, not...]] [[CIT.]] This concerns companies, I said, legal entities. This is corporate tax, CIT. Please also note that these are, however, several hundred thousand entities. In Poland, of course, we also have a division into so-called small, large and medium-sized enterprises resulting from business law, but in Poland, however, there is a situation that a large majority of taxpayers, including those who pay corporate income tax, are not really in the category of medium-sized entrepreneurs. In fact, most of them don't even fit in the small category. These are companies that have much less turnover. So it's like, well, we have several hundred thousand entities... In total, these CIT taxpayers are about 500,000. For this reduced rate At present, 15% But now we're going to lower it to 9%. Approximately 400 thousand of them will be eligible. So it is nevertheless, as we think, quite far-reaching facilitation for this small business, i.e.. a small taxpayer, the one defined by the law. The point is that he can, so to speak, get some air under his wings, move on.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u133	Okay, thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Thank you.]] [[Thank you. I just want to confirm that it is.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u134	And the second question is the following. I was discussing exactly yesterday with my accountant about what's going on at 15%. Well, I understand it's gonna be 9% next year. The law states that in order to be able to benefit from the preferential tax rate, in the previous year it was necessary to have a certain turnover as a company, I stress: in the previous year. So with a smart policy in business, and entrepreneurs will quickly find out in this gap, because this is a legal gap, just have 2 companies and in one year make a turnover by one company and in the other by another. In this way, it is possible to be on 90% income tax for all time. Did you predict that this would be the consequence of the introduction of this provision? I'm asking because in the case of 15% this is already happening, but it does not pay very much, because between 19% a 15% There's only four percentage points. Yeah, but between 19% a 9% There's a chasm and it's asked to use a gate like this in tax law. I was discussing this exactly yesterday with my accountant and I considered this provision to be at least controversial, because it is such a possibility that if an entrepreneur sets up 2 companies, it will be on 90% income tax for all time. In an extreme case I'm able to imagine it. Even Orlen could start 2 commercial companies and pay 9% for all time. tax, not 19% And that would be perfectly legal. That was my second question. [[That's a crime.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u135	Yeah, that's what I was gonna say... [[That would be a crime.]] Maybe not a crime, but it would be an abuse. In 2016 a clause against tax evasion was introduced into the Polish system. When you read this provision, which you are talking about, in isolation from other regulations, from the entire regulations that apply in Poland, then of course you can come to the conclusion that you have said. And if we look a little wider, we'll look at, for example. We will see that doing such a thing in order to achieve a major tax advantage or one of the main tax advantages we talked about yesterday at the meeting of the Finance Committee can be challenged by the tax authorities. There is a very serious risk here: if someone does this and makes it look like a way to do business, it will be questioned. [[Minister, no...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u136	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u137	Third question. But at first, I'll allow myself to disagree. There is no circumvention of tax law, because the circumvention of tax law concerns a particular taxpayer, and in this situation, which I am talking about, is 2, 3, 5, 50 taxpayers. And it's hard for the tax office to come to taxpayer A and say, "I'm sorry, darling, you should have turned 100 million zlotys, and you've reached 5 million zlotys, and to taxpayer B: I'm sorry, you've reached 100 million zlotys, and you should have reached 5 million zlotys or vice versa. Well, these are different taxpayers. The fact that they have a common owner has no meaning in this practice. The tax evasion clause will not apply here because it concerns a specific taxpayer, not a whole group of taxpayers, who in extreme cases do not need to be capitalised. Yes? I'm talking about functional connections. As for the third question, this is a similar remark concerning intellectual property. You're saying the tax here will be 5%. In a situation where it is not fully defined what intellectual property is. This is very judgmental. This creates, again, a temptation to sell, for example, trademark rights, which are part of intellectual property, or some mythical know-how for a huge amount of money. We had such experiences in the case of international corporations, when the Polish company reduced its tax obligations by selling mythical know-how or sign rights. You say, well, possible profits from it. It's not enough that they're small, it's just this. Only 5% will be taxed. Well, I see another way out of a tax knife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u138	Mr. Senator, why don't you stop pointing those gates? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: No, I have to...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The senator needs a financial advisor...]] Don't need... [[...honest.]] Mr. Senator doesn't need any tax advisors. Minister, please respond... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Yes, of course, Mr. Marshal...]] How do you assess such hypothetical situations, situations that might occur?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u139	Mr Marshal, it is such that, first of all, as far as intellectual property rights are concerned, there is a definition of intellectual property rights which are subject to this regime. This is a regime that... There's nothing to hide: it's not something we invented, because it's common in the world. We implemented the OECD's IP BOX guidelines and we did it very carefully. We did it so that it was not possible to question for any reason whether it was from the EU or from the OECD's point of view. This is in line with these guidelines. With regard to these schemes, which you mentioned earlier, there have indeed been situations such as the transfer of a trade mark abroad. This pattern was based on... Okay, maybe I won't tell you what it was. It also meant that the transfer of this mark was tax-free. We are introducing a regime whereby the disposal or commercialisation of intellectual property rights will be taxed at a 5% rate. In order to qualify for this regime, many conditions will have to be met. Of course, we want to do this in a flexible way, we will talk to business and we will create guidelines for it to be possible to apply, but we have to say that it will not be easy to apply something like this. Speaking of your earlier question about this certain optimization associated with companies that benefit from a privileged stake, Senator, I'd like to say that it's not that... it's not so easy to run a business, make a few companies, one of them enters the other's shoes. Right? If we want to achieve turnover, we do it with some kind of customer base. Right? If we have several companies and each of them operates in a different industry, it has a different customer base, then each of them can benefit from this 90% stake, because these are unrelated businesses. If we combine them in such a way that one company replaces the other. in the long-term contract to the same counterparty, which means we have a certain connection in question, it won't be that simple anymore. At that time there is a discussion on the tax circumvention clause. If you don't mind, sir, I'd like to propose a broader explanation in writing. It's gonna be a little more... Because these are lines, let's say... I don't want to take up a lot of time. I see there's a desire to discuss this. I'd be happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u140	Senator Terminski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u141	There are situations where a company, a large company, assumes 2 commercial units and participates in tenders every year. Once a company wins, once a company wins a second. And it happens in the majesty of the law. The counterparty base is an open base. Anyone can offer these counterparties. It's gonna be tough, especially if you have a staff of legal advisors on the other side to capture it... I just see it as a way in. In my view, this law should assume that a lower tax threshold, today 15% , and in a minute 9% , should relate to income in a given tax year and not on the basis of income from the previous year. Then this gate would close immediately. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Can I still?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u142	There you go, Minister, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u143	I'm sorry, but that's what it is. I missed it. I'm sorry. That's the way it is. This applies to revenue from the year in question. [[That's why my question was...]] Yeah, yeah... [['Cause the thing about the bill so far is that on the basis of...]] No, no. [[...data from the previous year...]] We're leaving this pattern. [[So that's what you're changing?]] We're changing, I'm sorry, we're changing it. [[Well, that changes things, Minister. In that case, chapeau bass. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u144	Minister, I want to ask you a question. Does this law change the principle of paying taxes on the sale of apartments, on the disposal of apartments? Doesn't it change? This isn't the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u145	No, no. [[Okay...]] Only when inheriting are the dates counted from the moment of acquisition... [[Just?]] ...by the heir, not... [[Only in succession? Good. Is there a transitional provision on the current situation? How does it look, or is there a transitional provision?]] I'm not sure there's any transitional provisions here... That's what I'd have to check. Maybe. If anyone's in this situation... Because Mr. Marshal says something's gonna happen today, and there's gonna be different rules from January 1st... [[Yes.]] Well, I'd have to check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u146	Good. Minister, I have one more question for you. I see here, maybe I'm overly suspicious... With these 2 laws, has the government applied the tactics that it is proceding the 2th law, one that raises money to the budget, one billion 300 million, and the other that reduces tax burden And they are basically processed together, and in the Seym, and in the Senate? Was there any idea of covering one law with another law, or was this a completely random situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u147	Mr. Marshal, no, it's not a coincidence that there are a little broader aspects involved here, we're implementing directives, there are other modes... We also wanted to have a bill that we all thought would be positive, so that we're doing something really good for business. That's the bill. In it we introduce this reduced rate, in it we introduce all these facilitations. However, we are human beings, we have the need to give something good to taxpayers, and that is exactly what we wanted to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u148	Thank you very much for your honest answer. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Thank you.]] Senator Terminski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u149	I'm sorry, Minister, but it's like an ad vocem of what you said again. If you're leaving this scheme, We didn't get the bill until yesterday, and I'm gonna admit that I wasn't able to analyze it, and it was on the finance committee, which I'm not a member of. Please answer me the following question: how will this tax be charged from the beginning of the year? Because entrepreneurs pay advances every month. And in the first month, I shoot, the entrepreneur has a million dollars in income, the second month has a million dollars, and now he doesn't know if he's going to exceed 5 million in a year, which is 1 million 200 thousand euros... Well, maybe it'll go over 100 thousand euros, and it'll go into a completely different tax threshold. And now, will the advances be paid at a rate of 9% And then, if you cross it, it pays back all of this, or do you have to declare at the beginning of the year what revenue is expected, and then you get a refund of that tax? How is this resolved in the bill? Tell me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u150	I'm sorry, but I'd rather answer that question in writing because I can't, I don't remember. [[Yeah, I'd ask for a written answer, because it's very important. Thank you.]] I'd love to.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u151	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Terminski. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 975 and the report of the committee In print No 975 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Director! Minister! This morning a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was held on the examination of the Electronic Invoicing Act in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. The law concerns the implementation in the Polish legal order of the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, which will enable the achievement of the objectives set by the EU legislature under national law, i.e. reducing barriers to cross-border trade resulting from the coexistence of a number of legal requirements and technical standards for electronic invoicing and their lack of interoperability. With the agreement of the Director, the Commission adopted 4 legislative amendments. There was a vote. Everyone was in favour. As in the Sejm. I therefore request that the High Senate adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u153	Thank you, Senator: At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz like to speak on the bill presented and present the position of the government? No. But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any reports. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Act establishing the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 978 and the report of the Commission In print No 978 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act on the establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. Both committees, after considering the law at its meeting on 25 October this year and after voting, stated that none of the proposals voted had received a majority. Before I go to the committee meeting, I would just like to say a few words about November 11th. One, two sentences. 11 November 1918 is a breakthrough day in the history of not only Poland, but also the whole of Europe. In Compiègne, near Paris, Germany signed a truce ending the First World War, and on the same day in Warsaw the Regency Council handed over the power to Józef Piłsudski. This date has therefore become the date of the symbolic event of Poland's regaining independence. I think this national holiday has been one of the most important holidays of the Republic of Poland for 100 years. I will no longer emphasize everything here, among others. how important it was that after 123 years of partitions, slavery marked by struggle, suffering, the efforts of many generations of Poles and Poles, our country regained sovereignty. And I'm going back to the bill. Since this day of November 11 falls on Sunday, and could fall on some other day of the week, which would be a holiday day, a holiday day, a good idea is to celebrate a little longer, so that November 12 would also be a holiday day, a family day, the day on which we celebrate. Next time we can celebrate like this in 100 years. I wish we could all live to see it. I ask you, at the time of the committee's deliberations, a number of requests were made: a motion for rejection of the law; a request for amendments to the Act; a request for deletion of the preamble; a request for deletion of the article. 3, i.e. that this should be a holiday in which there is a ban on trade, that is to say, as on Sundays, to which we have already become accustomed and which are Sundays free from trade work, because since this is a national holiday, it should also be a full holiday for 1 million trade workers. So this article. 3 would be deleted, and I agree with the motion Senator Rulewski made. During the committee's deliberations, of course, there were some inconveniences related to this law. It was suggested, for example. on the vacathio legis, that immediately after its adoption, the act would enter into force after the President signed it. This is, of course, a little awkward. It was pointed out that there was no public consultation. Everyone keeps saying that we have a democratic rule of law, so all laws should be reviewed by society, etc., and therefore legal security in the case of this law has not been preserved. I'm just reporting what we talked about at the committee meeting right now. They said there were a lot of business interests in progress. It will be a great difficulty for them to fulfil their obligations. Even Polish State Railways, hospitals, outpatients, etc., which is what is related to health care... Well, it's gonna be a little difficult for them. But as I say, this is the biggest holiday in our history, and that's why some sacrifice is required of us. Perhaps what was mentioned during the committee's deliberations will be some state compensation liability, there may be some collective actions for the entry into force of this law. Of course, all of this can be, but it is extremely important that we celebrate this holiday properly. I think that's it for me. I'm sure there'll be a lot of questions, so then I can answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u155	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the family committee... [[Do you still...]] Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u156	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Polish Parliament adopted this law irresponsiblely, without taking into account the economic damage to the state budget and to society. The bill sorts citizens out on those who are supposed to celebrate November 12th, and those who will work. The bill will cause chaos and dissatisfaction among those who will be deprived of preschool care for their children that day. People won't be able to send their kids to school. Offices, banks, post offices will be closed, which will surprise many citizens, including those who use in turn and other means of transport or services of institutions that should function on a daily basis. How and what is to be celebrated by an average citizen surprised by the grace that falls upon him in the form of an extra Christmas day? That's the question. The Legal Office's opinion is devastating for this law. It says that the Legislative Office has a lot of doubts about its compatibility with the Constitution. Please note that the Sejm passed this bill on 24 October this year. It therefore violates the principle of loyalty to citizens. Such a bill cannot be a trap. No one could have predicted that November 12 would be a holiday. This can't be a trap for citizens. The principle of loyalty, as the Constitution says, is also a prohibition on lawmakers to surprise citizens. And what if the President of the Republic, who has to sign this bill, wants to use his 21 days to analyze the bill? Her ad's coming up after November 12th. And then what? The president is also under duress. In addition, the applicants vaguely and unconvincingly argue their project, without taking into account the national and social implications that I have already stressed here. It concerns the functioning of means of communication, health services, offices, etc. This is an attempt to make society happy by force. This is supposed to be a bonus for voters who in the second round of local elections are to vote for PiS candidates because they were graced with an extra day off work. Not the money anymore, not the promises of individual ministers... Only that in any case the consequences of this will be borne by the State Treasury and entrepreneurs, citizens. Finally, note that November 12 is the national holiday. Please note that this is the title of the Act: the Act on the Establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. This bill sort of cancels November 11th. Ladies and gentlemen, on November 11th, he has long been a holiday to which the name of the National Independence Day has been given. I think Marshal Piłsudski should put a kick in this project's ideas from behind the grave. I'm talking about November 12th with a shout: don't move your freedom and celebrate it on November 12th! And just so that November 11th is November 11th, we are filing a motion to reject this rash, thoughtless bill. By the way, it is surprising that among the initiators of the proposal there were people responsible in a sense for the Polish state. Under this project was signed by Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki, Minister of Agriculture Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Krzysztof Czabański, President of the National Media Council, and member of this council, Mrs Elżbieta Kruk, who brought this law before the Sejm. It is worth noting that none of the members of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy of the Senate wanted to be rapporteur for this law. Finally, this obligation had to be taken on by someone from Law and Justice and became Senator Ryszka. This situation at the committee meeting speaks for itself. The bill is harmful, cloudy, appalling and should be rejected. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u157	Thank you, Senator. And now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am known as a senator of controversial speeches, of which even Marshal Karczewski says he does not understand them. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So I should warn you that the beginning of this speech may be incomprehensible to some. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are proceeding and working on a bill on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. And it is not open to discussion, nor is it subject to the mood that is being given to this debate. But I would like to draw your attention to remind the generation of the Soviet Army that exactly 27 years ago in Moscow an agreement was initialled on the withdrawal of Soviet troops from the territory of Poland, the agreement on the withdrawal of the Soviet Army after its 50 years of residence... And when we today rightly remember important, beautiful days, but also dramatic, regaining independence, we must also remember that after 27 years this independence, the power of the Nazi occupation, repeated by the Soviet army, was lost for 51 years. And here we are. I recognize a lot of them. The generation of "Solidarity," the generation of people who supported "Solidarity," also on 26 October, led to this independence being regained once again. That's why I cared about the wording of this bill. Senator Augustine and I have decided that this day cannot be legally described on our knees, and we think it is. The preamble shows great logical shortcomings, because it does not talk about worshiping regaining independence, only the 12th day, the day of celebration, that is, in a few days' time. This is an obvious error. But an even bigger mistake is... What's the preamble for? After all, the title itself indicates that this is this day, this is a holiday, you don't have to write it down unless someone doesn't understand it. Well, they don't understand me like that. Next, in Article. 1 a new concept of festivals important or greatest for Poland is introduced. It is illogical, because every holiday, especially national or national, is a festive celebration and it is not necessary to note that it will be festive, i.e. there will be no celebration at the ceremony. We as Senators of the Civic Platform cannot agree to this for language reasons. Finally, I move on to a case that warmed up Poland because the top of my fellow Members from the PiS irrationally, one can say, 'heroically' introduced this law on the last day. Senator Damięcka spoke about these matters, and the Members of the PiS also spoke about them or expressed doubts. This holiday is to be joyful, free from economic tension, family tension, others. However, for many of the groups set out in this Act it will be a celebration of deep concern, not to say: counting losses. The various losses are reported. Sector-related companies are talking about a few billion, except for those losses that these people will have to bear for changing the organisation of their companies, because these losses are immense. There is also talk of a breach of international agreements which would be respected on that day. In the inner plane it goes, for example. the care of those people who will then work in commerce or in health care and will have nowhere to walk their children, to kindergartens, to schools, because schools will have a day off. So I want to prove that this concern... This day will not be a happy day for hundreds or thousands of people, even if it does not exceed, it will not reach the number of 1 million or 2 million people, family environments. It can be said that 30 years, 27 years of the existence of independent Poland, parliamentary Poland, so I would say, did not teach some that the laws could not be an input, even though it was such noble intentions that Senator Ryszka spoke about. Today, our country, a rich country, with a complex economy, with a complex social life, cannot be so surprised. Even the fact that one mayor or councilman has to be won does not justify the extraordinarily issuing of such decrees. It's just too much irresponsible. But I think that in this Polish hindrance, because this is also the way to treat this law, we can find the language of consent. And if 'Cause I've got, unfortunately, such a sad prognosis. This law will not be rejected, it is still the place to make amendments at that time, which is still given to us. And that's why I'm proposing these amendments. As an assurance, as an alternative to ridicule and irresponsibleness. Main amendment In addition to these grammatical, logical ones, it comes down to the fact that this holiday, like all holidays in Poland and probably in the world, is for everyone. So I can't agree to disabling trade work here, especially since it wasn't controversial until recently. The work at Christmas was never controversial in Poland. Only the issue of working on Sundays is controversial, I would add that also on Saturdays. This is where the compromise was reached. But no one ever questioned the principle of holidays on Christmas day, on any holiday, whether religious or public. Therefore, I do not agree to the exclusion in Article. 3 concerned a huge number of trade workers. I don't know how they'd listen ceremonially. President's speeches or heroes, veterans, even though they're probably already dead because it's been 100 years. It is also debatable to limit or create lex specialis for work on this holiday in the case of health care professionals, health care professionals. Summa summarum, in order not to prolong, because these are obvious matters for you, although it was not obvious in the Sejm, I believe that the exemptions, namely Article, should be deleted. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4. This is not the way I think it should be said. That any amendments would interfere with the implementation of this law. Well, I'm really sorry, but if we want to celebrate heroes on a solemn basis, there's no obstacle for the Sejm to accept these amendments to meet again at the talk about the Independent, talking about our homeland. That is why I am presenting these amendments to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u159	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please. Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej. Which rapporteur do you have a question for, most or minorities? [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: Senator Ryszka.]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u160	Senator, I would like to ask the drafters of the law what really meant that they decided to present to Poles an extra day off from work in such express legislation. I will add that only some Poles, because, as you know, not everyone will celebrate. Don't you think it's again the division of Poles into good ones and bad ones? The good ones, regardless of the economic and social consequences, will certainly vote yes, and the bad ones will be against. Is this supposed to be the call of President Kaczyński for national unity and for consent? That's the first question. Second question. What am I supposed to say to the entrepreneurs who called me asking me who's gonna pay them for the losses caused by the downtime in production? I think entrepreneurs are too big a word. These are small manufacturers who barely make ends meet and who only exist in this market because they obtain customers thanks to the reliability and punctuality of deliveries. One of them asked me this question: Has the Lord God taken your senses from you, that you are a law that serves no one? I repeat this question to the voters: has the Lord God taken your senses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u161	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u162	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm starting from the end. You must ask God if he's taken our senses, because we feel full of mental authority. This holiday does not divide Poles. Many millions of Poles will celebrate. The president... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: How do you know that?]] How do I know? Young people and children will rejoice without going to school. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: How to Rejoice?]] They'll remember for the rest of their lives that there were two days off for the holiday of independence. Normally this day would fall out some day of the week, e.g. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and there would be no problem. Therefore, the applicant I'm not the applicant, I'm just trying to explain the applicants wanted this Monday, the day of the day as if to complete the holiday day. Marshal Piłsudski, knowing that on 11 November it was a great feast, established this day by decree of 10 February 1919 on the celebration of regaining independence. In that situation, they came to the conclusion that it was supposed to be such an extra day of celebration. I agree with the fact that it is too late, that we are making various difficulties for entrepreneurs, that someone will have to suffer the damage. That's the truth. But the value of this celebration outweighs the losses that will not be so great. I imagine if someone has some international agreements that they have to do on November 12, they'll just do it, and his employee gets 100%. more or according to an individual agreement will get some more money. [[He can't.]] [[And who's gonna return this to the entrepreneurs?]] So are doctors who have scheduled surgeries on November 12th... doctors are in different employment relationships, they're on contracts, they're billed on an hourly basis, and so on. The hospital director's gonna have to settle all this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u163	Thank you, Senator. Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, issues such as: relations of employment, leave, equivalent for non-use of leave, settlement periods, civil contracts, public-legal obligations, access to health services, transport, offices, courts... How do you imagine that? Perhaps as of November 12, this year, a number of very important, perhaps vital things were planned by the citizens of the Polish state. The state, by introducing this law, is changing this order. [[Suddenly.]] Don't you think it is? I'm gonna use a very gentle word. "Unreasonable"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u165	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u166	I believe these are very important matters, and I agree with you. But this will to celebrate, expressed by Members, is equally important, and I know that millions of people are already happy to have a day off. But I forgot at the end of my report... 'Cause right now, there's an interrogation going on... I would also like to make my own amendments, which are similar to... [[Why don't you report it in the discussion?]] ...senator Rulewski's amendment... [[Yes, yes, of course...]] I'm not gonna take the floor in the discussion... [[You can report it, go ahead.]] ...so that these amendments are now being tabled. [[I'll ask you a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u167	Senator Sługocki wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u168	Mr. Senator, but still, please pay attention... Is a group of Members Of course, the majority of Members can decide and put Poles before the fact? But shouldn't the legislator ask Poles? This is quite an important issue from the point of view of the functioning of each of us. And if the legislator wanted to establish on 12 November this year. on a day off, shouldn't he do it in January, February, or March of this year? Why this initiative today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u170	As far as I'm concerned, this bill was a couple of months old. It's incomprehensible to me, too, why it wasn't filed three months earlier. Yeah, but that's a fact we're facing, and there's nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u171	And one more question. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u172	But, Senator, did he lie down? I don't understand. After all, the Marshal of the Sejm is Marshal Kuchciński, a representative of the ruling party, de facto the applicant, the initiator of this rule of law. So that's a question for your marshal: if he didn't notice that someone had made such a bill, is it responsible to process it today? Perhaps Marshal Kuchciński should stand in front of the mirror and ask himself whether he is not putting a huge crowd of Poles in an extremely difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u173	Okay, Mr. Senator. You asked me a question, didn't you? Because you turned to the marshal. [[Kuchcinski.]] Oh, Mr. Marshal Kuchciński... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, let's get to the next question... [[I'm just gonna tell the senator...]] And if that's a question for me, it's a difficult situation... There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u174	I'm just gonna say in person that I've agreed for a while, let's say, to be red for others, which is why... [[We understand.]] [[We won't bother.]] I'm not asking you to spare me, I'm asking you to understand the situation we're in...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u175	We understand, Mr. Senator. I ask the opposition senators to take this into account, but of course they ask questions, they keep asking questions. [[And they didn't split the hair into four.]] Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, a very important 100th anniversary of regaining independence, a very important bill. My question is: are the representatives of the applicants present today in the Senate sitting room? Were they invited to this meeting? Because I think they're following a case in the media, and they know what kind of concern this bill is right now. Maybe... I don't know if there was any information in the public media about it. After all, it is the responsibility of the applicants to submit such a project in such a sudden manner. I don't know if they were present at the committee meeting. Could you answer that, please? Did they answer, argue? Why is this proposal being introduced in such a way? After all, this law applies to almost every citizen, and concerns many of the entities you spoke about, and therefore the implementation of such a law 20 days before this date is indeed irresponsible. And maybe one more question: what are the proposals for this day then? What options did the applicants propose? Well, if we're gonna celebrate, I guess it's not just about going shopping at the store. So are there any suggestions? What's this celebration supposed to look like when it's an extra day off from work? Because the Christmas announcement itself, without any show, isn't enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u177	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u178	I answer: neither during the committee meeting nor today we hosted any of the applicants' representatives, but it was quite widely commented in the Sejm. Members acted, responded, etc. We in the Senate have no obligation to host Members of the applicants, so that I believe that their absence is explained. If they were bound by the rules, I'm sure somebody would be here. As far as this celebration is concerned on Monday, I suppose on November 11th, there will be about a million people coming to Warsaw who will eat together for the celebration. A million people will be coming back tonight, at night, these people will be taking coaches to their homes. Well, I don't know what their betting job would be like on Monday. I think on Monday it's gonna be such a celebration in the form of rest, without all the different concerts and so on, because it's all gonna be on Saturday and Sunday. I'm telling you now how I imagined it. This day, November 12th, this is a national holiday, giving as if the opportunity to survive this great holiday once again, so familyly, in the form of rest. And once we've organized this, we'll plan it, we'll... Well, that's what makes it possible to establish this national national holiday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u179	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Senator Philip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u180	Thank you very much. [[Am I registered?]] [[You're next, Basia.]] Senator rapporteur, here was the deadline, the pace of work on this law, the lack of representatives of applicants, but that is not what I intend to talk about. Well, two things I'd like to bring up. The first point is that my previous speakers pointed out in various ways that so quickly passing this day off from work would cause a whole lot of perturbation and trouble. And I have this question, do you not fear that all these people who will be affected by these problems will, as a result, remember November 12, 2018 as... Well, they will be associated with the problems they will encounter in their daily operation, not with the celebration of November 11th. And the other thing. Maybe it's my stowaway, my carelessness, my confusion. You said a million people would come to Warsaw. Well, I may have been looking badly, I haven't looked into the Senate box, I admit, but I haven't met in public space, also in national media, with some information that there will be mass events to which a million people will come to Warsaw. I thought that since you guys are so attached to making it an extra day off from work, because it's a century, I'm gonna get information from everyone about mass events, and for the first time in my life, I'm gonna find out about this mass event from you. You said a million people would come to Warsaw. Could you explain that to me? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u181	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u182	These events, of course, will not only be in Warsaw, they will be in every city, in every municipality. These parties are planned, they're already on the air. Speaking of Warsaw, I may have overreacted, because there is actually no invitation for Poles to come to Warsaw. I just imagined that on this day many people would like to celebrate just in Warsaw. In my opinion, every day off for Poles is rather a good thing, so that all the perturbations that the senator mentioned here will touch some group of people, but I think that for most people it is a good thing, which is the possibility of spending time at home, is more important than going to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u183	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, I would like to ask you if you realize that this project is presented in the country where Christmas Eve, the most cultivated and traditional Polish holiday, is the day when Polish women have to prepare this Christmas Eve and men go to work. Do you realize that? And you want to introduce us to a new holiday that will be a rest after I'm guessing. The March of Independence. The March that's supposed to take place here. And those people need to go home tonight and rest the next day. It really amazes me. And I would like you to refer to why there is no initiative, e.g. free on Christmas Eve, but there's an extra Christmas initiative. And the next thing you know, my next question... [[Once every 100 years.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] My next question, Senator, concerns costs. At the moment, they're dying in the media for $7 billion. You said in your speech that there is no problem, because you can move it to the next day. Mr. Senator, if work could be moved to the next day, we'd be working, for example. once a week and we'll move everything to Friday. You can't do that. If you don't work, it costs money. It costs money because there's no production. They say these costs are 7 billion. And I have a question about whether you have calculated the cost of this bill and the introduction of this extra day off from work. What are the costs? 'Cause we're usually used to judging the financial consequences by making laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u185	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u186	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Speaking of Christmas Eve, I agree with you, although employers are shortening their hours of work on this Christmas day so that our mothers and wives have time to prepare Christmas Eve. But it would be nice if Christmas Eve was a day off too. I agree with that. And as far as I'm concerned... [[What's more important?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Okay, but there was a question and the senator answers.]] This isn't about what's more important because we're introducing this November 12 this year at the same time. So that it's here... Christmas Eve would be a problem. The problem is, I'm gonna say Christmas Eve is always a day off. I'd even go for it. As I say, we worship only November 11th, and we extend it to the 12th. As far as costs are concerned, we read in the explanatory memorandum that in order to quantify the minimum effect, the proposed changes are assumed to affect only the industrial and construction sectors, because, according to the analysis, they are the sectors most sensitive to changing the number of working days per month. The other sectors show most flexibility in adapting to the changes in the number of working days. And here we have it calculated. There are simulations. The simulations carried out on such assumptions indicate that one day off from work causes an average decrease in production in the month by around 2,5%. Monthly decrease in industry production by around 2,5% means an annual decrease of approximately 0,2%. And from this point of view, an additional day off from work can undoubtedly have a negative impact on economic growth, but it must be borne in mind that over a period of several quarters it is possible to make up for this, this loss in the production process. That's what I'm gonna do. On 12 November, the day off will not significantly reduce economic growth compared to, say, other years to previous years. It will simply not affect any long-term economic processes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u187	Thank you, Senator. [[Janek Rulewski.]] Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u188	Nevertheless, I respect you because you are in a four-fold role: as Senator rapporteur, you are also defending this bill, because I saw it in the vote, and you are defending it. or whether it somehow appears on behalf of the initiators, but also of the government, which is here, regardless of the rules of procedure, necessary, because all questions concern the determination of the effects, not so much the needs, but the consequences. Still, I'd like to ask you if you can't. Was it Christmas to be transferred to Christmas Eve, which is Saturday off? Isn't the goal, though? I'm here to argue with you. A desire to worship with, say, some kind of bribe? Because when you say the kids aren't going to school, I don't know if it's... There may be joy among these children, I would be happy too, but this is a loss of one day of science, and Poland requires science. When we do Monday's holiday, it will mean that the stakes, the day off, will be double. And on Saturday, I was introduced, and I was, and I was involved, so that, among other things, I would. Poland served in terms of family life, but also celebrations... How would you say, "Why did you lack this imagination for Members, Senators?" Or would you say it's the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u189	I agree with the senator, with everything you've said here. However, it seems to me that this free day, this free Monday at school, for each student is connected with the previous day, with this November 11th, so that it will be remembered as celebrating the independence of Poland, and not just a day free from science. If it were Christmas Eve, however, it would be more connected with Christmas than with Independence, so that I don't agree with saying that it's some kind of election bribery or... What's happened here, too. But absolutely, since it is the second day, the next day after the Independence Day, honoring the Independence Day, then both days as if they were creating one holiday. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u190	Already? Yes, Senator? Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have this rather specific question: what does the group of Members mean? Because I took the senate prints that we have... Where do I even get to know what group of Members this is? With specific names? Who was the initiator of this bill? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I can read you.]] No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u192	But okay, okay. Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I can introduce you because I...]] [[Yes.]] But it's not... I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u193	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask if during the committee's work Perhaps you have some more exclusive knowledge of the applicant, this group of Members, following the initiative of this law, consulted its content with the President of the Republic. Because the mode of working on this law and the deadlines that come into account, the constitutional terms, in principle preclude the President from taking advantage of the full time that he has to sign this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u194	Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u195	Mr Senator, these questions should be addressed to Mrs Raven, who ignored the Senate and did not see the need to come here. Besides, it's not the first time for Members That's how they treat us. So you're obviously focused on that dissatisfaction. With all due respect, Mr. Senator, speaking of the fact that 2.5% decrease in production in a given month for an entrepreneur isn't important, because he's gonna do it in a mythical time... I'll say, you're talking crap. Most companies in this country work with a few percent profitability. Trade works with profitability below 1%. Reduction in turnover by 2,5% means that in November all these companies, from the vending machine, will record the loss. They will record a loss, which will make their credit rating worse, which will also have specific consequences, for example in the increase in interest for these companies. So that these consequences are much greater than just a simple loss of production at a given moment. Mr. Senator, you said there'd be losses in construction and one more area. And on what grounds do you claim that losses will not be in the steel industry, for example? Can you imagine putting out the stoves for one day? On what grounds do you claim that there will be no losses in mining? You mean what? That the miners wouldn't come to work, and the coal would come out on its own? When are they gonna make up for getting that coal? Some other day off, I guess. 'Cause I'm assuming they work at work anyway. Mr. Senator, I would like you to approach the problem so comprehensively and answer the question: how can you imagine making up for your losses? Someone here said about the amount of 7 billion by tens or by thousands of entrepreneurs who will suffer these losses? And why is this bill... I understand that we want to celebrate the day off, I understand that... [[But, Mr. Senator, you've already crossed a lot... it's been a minute.]] I'll just finish my sentence, Mr. Marshal. [[But the question is...]] I rarely speak. I'm just gonna ask... [[But that's a question, not a voice in... you can sign up...]] So my question is: why couldn't it be normal to say that because November 11th is unlucky on Sunday, in some near future, the employer is obliged, in agreement with the employee, to give him a day off from work? The wolf would be full and the sheep would be fine. [[Thank you very much.]] Why didn't you think so?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u196	Good. Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u197	Thank you. About the first question... During the committee's deliberations there were no Members of the applicants, so that I find it difficult to answer the question whether they consulted the President or not. So it's one thing. I was talking about construction and industry, about the loss there. Yeah, well, it's not just the construction that they're gonna be. And the industry, as I understand it, is mining, and the steel industry... And I was merely quoting the justification of the parliamentary project, in which it is clearly stated that it will result in 0.2% of the losses per year and that it can be easily made up for. And if there's a way to put out a stove... Yeah, well, you know, Sunday, too. [[You can, but these are losses.]] Of course you can't. So that here the question is... [[Mr. Senator, the steelworks are running in continuous mode. Even Christmas is working.]] Yes. [[Of course.]] So that I'm sure the directors of various workplaces will prepare it properly so that this day is free and that all of this will be made up later on. That's what they're directors for and managing bets for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u198	Already, Mr. Senator? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u199	I've already... Maybe there'll be more discussion, and maybe, Senator, we can explain what it looks like in the economy, what it looks like... Because please note that many companies in Poland are connected by a whole network of links with the whole of Europe. There are transport companies whose cars go there because you have to pick up the goods, they come... And you can't just move it, there's no way. Someone just has to do it, and now you don't know how. I'm gonna ask you a question, Mr. Senator, because the question was also on the side. The Confederation of Leviathan, we all believe so. Well, if the project had come a year ago, we might have wondered how to do it, and perhaps it would have been okay for this holiday. But now it's really too late. I'm already overlooking the fact that this project is unconstitutional. Please refer, Mr. Senator, to why this happened. Explain the reasons why this project has been lying in Mr. Marshal Kuchciński's desk for so long and why only now... Were these costs generated on purpose? Because I don't understand. They could be reduced if, as business representatives said, they knew about it a year before. Even two months before, you could have done something...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u200	Now, Senator, it's been over a minute. [[Yes. And this is...]] The question has already been asked. Thank you very much. [[Yes, thank you.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u201	Mr. Senator, Sundays and holidays are free days according to the work code, art. 1519. So why should some groups work on this holiday if the law provides for November 12 as a holiday? This is a contradiction between the content of the Act and the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u202	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u203	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this is an important anniversary and it is a pity that the project has been submitted too late. Senator Zdrojewska spoke about this and I will no longer develop it, but I have a question: did you analyze what it looks like when it comes to the number of working days? How does it look in Poland? Because we can afford to actually have more of those days. It's a one-time day off from work, but we also talked about it. About Christmas Eve. What does it look like compared to other European countries? Is this number of Christmas days smaller, bigger, or the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u204	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u205	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska's answer is that the word lay so much between me. I know this idea was ripening, that it was born a few months ago, but at what time was it, so to speak, reported as a project, it's hard to say. Well, I know it's been thought of. Life is richer than certain, let's say, decisions, and that's why there's the situation we're dealing with. As for these international agreements mentioned here, there is a transport that needs to start on Monday, I think it will. It's up to the employees to avoid any major losses. If the transport of some products to some country in Europe is to start on Monday, because this is the way it's planned, because on Tuesday it has to be proved, that's probably what it's gonna be like, except that this driver gets another salary for it, or he's gonna take his day off, these overtimes. It's, I think, to do. I'm not an entrepreneur, but I have so much imagination... Well, I know that's not the kind of thing you did. As far as your Marshal Borusewicz is concerned, these code things, and so on, so are they for individual settlement. We want this holiday to be handled by as many people working as possible, and that's why the amendments we're making as a law and justice club. They are also consistent with the amendments of Senator Rulewski. Absolutely it should be that way, so that I think that... we're trying to make it compatible with the work code and, let's say, with what it usually looks like during national holidays. So there shouldn't be any conflict-of-laws here. Senator Florek asked what it looks like when it comes to holidays in Poland and Europe. We have the most free days in Europe, so that by adding this day, we enrich ourselves even more on the holidays. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Poles like to celebrate, I personally like to celebrate. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] And since we are an economically developed country... [[Oh, that's right.]] Yeah, we're an economically developed country. [[Right.]] ...we can have this... It may allow a bad word, but there is no danger. This day of many Poles, so to speak, will be spent in the family.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski, and then Senator Damiacka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u207	I thank you for the fact that these amendments are being broadcast on a common frequency. However, I would like to ask you a question in order to convince others who are not convinced of these amendments, but not only. In introducing this holiday, we divide the employees into those who, on November 12th... Except, of course, in cases where the code indicates who's supposed to work. E.g. gastronomy, movie, culture are still like that, I would say, alarm workers. They'll get 200%. salaries, and trade workers who have been assigned an obligation to work on that day will only get 100% salaries. And I have this general appeal because these laws, however, require consultation with experts. I'm just now picking up some contradictions about this bill. I'd like you to answer the question of whether you'll be in favour of not sharing the staff also on account of the salary of the day. [[Voice from the hall: Government, I think.]] The government, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u208	Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u209	I'd like to ask if you've received any news... Because we had the two committees meeting yesterday. In the meantime, between yesterday and today, did any information come to you about what is to be done, how are we to celebrate, what is the proposal to celebrate November 12th? Because apart from the frightening information that a million people are going to come to Warsaw... I understand that for this million people there must be some suggestions for spending this holiday. Is that even what you're talking about? Did the applicants take this into account? Or was something said at the Law and Justice Club colloquially? If so, please give us a little bit of a break in the mystery, which is due to happen on November 12th. How's everybody gonna celebrate this day? Will it be, as you said, a family holiday consisting of, as usual, as on other such days, traditionally parents with children will go to open supermarkets that day, to movies, etc.? How's that even gonna work? What is the proposal of the Polish State, which is likely to be involved in this on 12 November? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u210	Thank you very much. Senator Panczyk-Podniej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u211	Please correct me if I'm wrong. It seems to me that we have recently dealt with a law which obliged employers that if a public or ecclesiastical holiday falls on a day off from work, the employer should give the employee a day off at a different date. To me, this is a classic example of this... And that's the case. It's a day off from work, so... It wouldn't be a problem if employers were now dating employees for a day off on a different date. Am I wrong? If so, correct me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u212	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I got a question from one of the voters, a citizen of our country. It sounds like this, I quote: Mr. Senator, what is this holiday for health care on November 12th? We are also citizens and have a statutory day off or not, because even the NFZ can't decide. Can you settle that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u214	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u215	Senator Rulewski asked about the division of employees. Well, I think we can... we know what a national holiday means, and we know how they work... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But that's why we know...]] We know... [[Senator, no one bothered you.]] ...how you work on state holidays and who works on state holidays. So, a little bit, I'm gonna say, by deleting the article here. 3, we are already fully celebrating as in the case of public holidays. And at the workplace, the principals know who's working and how they're working. Another issue concerns health care, which Senator Slugocki asked about, quoting the voter. Health services work a little differently. I'm not a health care professional, but I do know that hospital employment, clinics, outpatients look different. These aren't just jobs, because they're contracts and stuff. You can have overtime, you can pick up another day for working on your Christmas day. I also got a question from one doctor who's gonna have to perform surgery on Monday. He asked who he was supposed to leave his children with that day, who were at school. Well, these are difficulties. For him to say so, his head is to find his mother-in-law, his neighbor, or someone else to help with the children. I hope that Poles are wise enough, wise enough, etc., that they can manage it somehow. Senator Damiacka I would like to answer that this 1 million people it was me who made up a little, in the sense that I say: on such a big holiday as November 11th, on the anniversary of every 100 years many people, many Poles should come to Warsaw. And that's how that 1 million came to my mind. But I know there's no mandatory agenda that law and justice wants to organize. There's nothing like that. So I'm gonna ask you to give me that $1 million, so to speak, forgive me. It's just my imagination, so to speak, and my patriotism dictates that we should celebrate together that day. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal request.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u216	It's a formal conclusion, isn't it? There you go. What's that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u217	I am filing a formal request for an adjournment until a representative of the government arrives at the Senate sitting room. [[But there is no formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] It has to be. [[There isn't. Time out, huh? You're asking for a break, aren't you? Yes?]] Yeah, it's a break, but my justification is clear. The justification is that a government representative should be present during the examination of this law. He wasn't at the committee meeting. He's not here right now. It's a big part of... [[Okay, well, there's a request for a break. There you go...]] Much of the questions should be addressed to a government representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u218	I'm against that conclusion. We vote... I don't have a card, so I can't vote. Who's in favor of the senator's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 30 senators voted against, 18 against, 12 against. [[Voting No 5]] There's no quorum. The motion didn't go through. [[But the motion passed!]] Oh, no, Mr. Marshal... [[But the motion has passed, Mr. Marshal!]] Mr. Senator, I know the rules. I interpret it if you have doubts. [[May I? May I speak, Mr. Marshal?]] [[But the motion went through, it was 6:12 p.m.]] We're not discussing this right now. There you go, who's asking the questions? Senator Borusewicz asks a question, then Senator Rybicki and Senator Terminski. Please, Senator Borusewicz is asking a question. Mr. Marshal? [[No, no, I applied for a formal application.]] Then I'll cross you off the list of questions. [[Please delete.]] We're losing you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u219	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we're talking about profits, the positive effects of this bill, we're talking about tangible losses, we're talking about calculations of business losses. And did someone at the committee meeting or in the debate raise the problem of how much loss you suffer by the fact that citizens, in particular entrepreneurs, are surprising decisions that deeply interfere with the personal lives of millions of people and, on the other hand, entrepreneurs who cannot adapt their businesses so quickly and citizens' life plans to a holiday that is completely unexpected? There is such a thing as a citizen's trust in you. Will this authority of the state not be compromised in connection with this process and surprise of citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u220	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u221	Okay, we've already discussed that entrepreneurs are having losses, that the state has losses, the budget is losing, we're all losing. We discussed that people would not be able to treat themselves that day, because we would have to cancel the surgery. I just got a question, literally right now. Because some people don't have a very comfortable life situation and one of the ladies who's watching, I understand, our deliberations, asked me to ask you this question. What about the trial that day? 'Cause you said in your speech I'm quoting from memory. That it can be moved to the next day. You mean what? That there'll be twice as many trials on Tuesday? The lady who asked me that question has been waiting for a divorce hearing for nine months. Divorce itself is stress. So what? Now the next nine months will wait and stress, or will this trial be held on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u222	Thank you very much. Is that the end of the question? Does anyone else come forward to ask a question? [[Because you're going home tomorrow.]] No? Mr. Senator, you're welcome. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I agree with the fact that many citizens will be surprised by the introduction of this law and there is nothing to hide. So the way they're gonna handle it is on their heads. However, most citizens, I am convinced, will be delighted with this additional holiday. Will the authority of the state stay here... [[Trust in you.]] Trust in you... Well, then everyone has to answer that question. I think that no, I think people will be happy, most Poles will be happy that they have a day off and can spend it in the family. Because we can come up with different life situations here, but, like I say, there's no answer to that. As for the divorce hearing... It's best that this divorce isn't, so to speak, I'm in favour of permanent marriages, but it's up to the head of the court to move the court hearing to another date. I don't think it's gonna be such a big deal that they're gonna be married another day. I'm sorry, I don't want to trivialize, but let's not do a lot of examples, what if. [[One last question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u224	Anyone else have a question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u225	Mr. Senator, why don't we agree to the end of this series of questions with such a conclusion? 'Cause that's what you're saying. The only ones who will be happy with this holiday are children because they won't go to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u226	Well, that wasn't a question. [[It was.]] Okay, I don't take that as a question. No more questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we are in a situation where we will probably decide that Sunday is on Monday. The Senate, the Sejm can do anything, but I didn't think there would be a situation in which we decided that the century of independence, a national holiday once every 100 years, would be the twelfth, not the eleventh. So we're gonna assume Sunday's on Monday. It's a good thing it's not Wednesday, it's not Thursday... This is a bill for which, I understand, the government is embarrassed or dissatisfied. And it's too bad Mr. Marshal made it impossible for government representatives to come. I applied for a recess until government officials arrived, because it wasn't the senator who was supposed to answer those specific questions. And this law brings with it a lot of detailed problems that we are trying to show, resolve during this debate. It is not a matter for the Senator rapporteur to answer such specific questions. On Monday, 22 October, the Sejm entered the Sejm, and on Tuesday, 23 October, a day later, the Sejm passed this law in the night hours. The debate lasted 1 hour and 36 minutes. With us, this debate lasts much longer and is therefore more detailed. There is a contradiction between this law and the Labour Code. The Labour Code says that all holidays are free of work, and the law that speaks of the holiday on 12 November states that for some workers groups there will not be a day free of work. This is a clear contradiction with the labour code. Well, it can't be that the law is made... [[With a constitution. Inequality...]] ...has such an inequality. This bill contradicts any legislative correctness. The time at which this law is being processed, this instant mode, and this law concerns the economic sphere, after all not only pleasure and rest, but concerns the whole economic sphere... This procedure, which has been introduced, is nothing strange in this term of office of the Sejm and the Senate... [[Yeah, that's normal.]] ...but you have to deal with the various problems that this bill will bring, because it concerns all employees. This method of proceding does not give the opportunity to adapt to statutory, organisational, legal, business decisions. What about trust in a country that should guarantee legal stability, stability of economic processes? It is not possible for entrepreneurs to comply with this law within 3 weeks. This is an absurdly short period. For many companies, this will result in a painful drop in revenue. Art. 2 the Constitution speaks of a democratic state of law and the principles of this democratic state of law. There is the principle of trust in the State and the law, the principle of legal security, the principle of protection of acquired rights and interests in progress, the principle of maintaining the corresponding vacathio legis, i.e. an appropriate deadline for adapting. I am no longer talking about the principle of compliance with the rules of correct legislation, which has not been properly applied here. The Legislative Office has included its comments on 5 pages and these are comments that say that this law is non-constitutional and should not be procedated. There has been a violation of the principles of correct legislation. This law is flawed and inaccurate, highly vague and unclear by the drafting of regulations which makes it impossible to determine precisely the content of the regulations contained therein and to create uncertainty among its addressees as to their rights and obligations. Such doubts are raised by Article. 4 for the provision of health care. In fact, it is not known what rules health care will be provided on 12 November 2018. This is a quote, just one piece of this legal opinion of the Senate Legislative Office. So, Mr. Marshal, this bill should not be prosecuted. And since you've already introduced this bill to proceed, without regard to these comments, it should be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u228	Thank you. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Suppose this year's Independence Day would be Wednesday. We'd have one day to celebrate November 11th. Luckily, it fell out on Sunday, so we have two days to celebrate, because it's still free Saturday. I understand that the Sejm in His Grace wanted to grant the third day to celebrate, although, as Internet users joke, it is probably because on November 12, 1962, the premiere of the film was premiered about two such who stole the moon. This is, of course, an online joke, but understanding the assumptions of applicants is difficult, perhaps somewhat embarrassing for them, because they do not appear anywhere, either at committee meetings or at plenary sessions. However, care for patients is not visible in this act. You can't see in this act the care of doctors. You can't see in this bill the care of those who have a court hearing that day. It's not like that. I don't have to explain it in this House. That the operations that will not take place on Monday will be carried out on Tuesday, because on Tuesday there is already a full list, long-established, and some patients are waiting for this Monday surgery several months or longer. And they're waiting, for example. for replacement of a large pond prosthesis. And once they're off the list, you don't know when they're gonna be operated on. Hospitals are very worried because trade unions, the same ones who are asking for free trade, are already asking if people will be paid double rates, like on Christmas Day. And in a hospital employing 1,500 people, there would have to be double rates for everyone, because if the hospital is to work, it's not enough for surgeons, anesthesiologists or anesthesiologists to come, there have to be instrumentalists in the ward, kitchen, etc., etc. If the hospital is to work as normally, giving double rates for 1500 people means a burden on the hospital's budget. And as you know, the debt of hospitals already exceeds PLN 12 billion. We make an unwise decision to make this debt deepen. Courts. According to the newly obtained information on that day, several thousand court cases were to take place. It's not just the divorces you've been mocking Senator Ryszko from, it's also serious business. If they fall off the docket, they won't come in on Tuesday, because the vocanda is already full, because the queues to the court extend, despite the assurances of Minister Ziobra, according to which they were supposed to shorten. We're adding to the extension of this line. The question is whether it's constitutional to give freedom to everyone while taking away this freedom from all hospital staff and part of the pharmacists. I have doubts about this, so I agree with the amendments on both sides to delete this article. The legislators have serious doubts about what they have expressed in their excellent legislative opinion. There was a Barei movie I don't like Monday, which perfectly parodyed the reality of communist times. Looks like that movie was bad, too, like everything that was for communism. So we try to create such an impression that we like Monday. But this road, ladies and gentlemen, will lead us astray not only economically but also socially. And it will not improve the perception of the authorities as the serious supreme democratic authorities of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think you have to weigh words, and you're right. Since words have fallen on your side, and the rations that concern only one side of the coin, I hope that I will add the other side of the coin, which, I hope, is also in your hearts and minds, but somehow we have decided a strange way of doing so. At least the State of the Civic Platform has decided Forget about her. Only Senator Rybicki, who isn't here, said he was right. And indeed, let these rations begin to weigh. I must say, for my part, that you have, unfortunately, I admit it with pain. That's part of the point. I agree that the present time is certainly not the best time for this bill to enter into force and for the President to sign it in such a manner. It would certainly be much better if this law had been passed much earlier. Then both economic issues and all these arguments concerning potential issues, because, of course, it is not real at all The losses would have been long beyond us. All these arguments would be gone by now. And even if that's why it would be better if this bill wasn't processed today. I must say that you are, of course, right in this regard. However, I would like to remind you, I hope to say that for you However, we are discussing a special day in Poland's history. And I'm terribly surprised that you don't want to emphasize that in your statements. 11 November We will celebrate the century of independence. And I have the feeling that such late proceding is the result. We're on our side. The lack of a certain imagination that has been corrected. What is it? It consists of - Did you? - No, I didn't. I didn't We're really looking forward to it. I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... It doesn't make sense. So that we can celebrate this day on November 11th in a truly unique way. Senator Czesław Ryszka, for reasons closer to me unknown, withdrew from the opinion that he was hoping that a million inhabitants of Poland would appear, perhaps, in Warsaw, to celebrate this holiday. I hope that there will be a million and even more Poles who in different parts of Poland will celebrate this day properly, dignifiedly. We would very much like the celebration of independence, which once every 100 years falls in such a solemn moment, to be a feast for all of us. This is the other side that the state is not interested in at all in its statements. Why are you not interested in understanding such a simple reality that if we want ♪ and we want to ♪ To mobilize the Polish people, Poles to work on November 11th, they worked to give testimony that they are patriots of the Polish... This is probably a pretty serious argument, though, so that once every 100 years we can work for independence, for... [[We're talking 12 o'clock, 12 o'clock.]] ...of witnessing. They will be crowds, I hope, government officials, crowds of self-governments, crowds of all, all those who would like to show that they are Poles and want to celebrate. And therefore, of course... [[Every day the Pole serves the nation.]] ...this day, Monday, November 12th, from my perspective at least It will be a day of decent rest after a well-filled, hard work celebrating Independence Day. I'm surprised you don't want to weigh those points. I'm standing here saying I weigh those rations. Because what you said is important. But why isn't there an incentive in you for Poles to celebrate November 11th? I just don't get it, so emotionally. Why doesn't any of you stress that? [[But we're gonna celebrate.]] Where will you celebrate when you haven't said anything about it? [[Voice from the room: 'Cause that's not what...]] No opinion. [[Voice from the room: Well, here we go.]] So I speak for you, ladies and gentlemen. And I hope that from now on you will begin to say that we are balancing, that we are balancing, and not That we give one side of the coin. This is unfortunately... [[We'll celebrate.]] ...a phenomenon that doesn't affect your formation for the first time. Here Senator Rulewski was inclined to suggest that this day of November 12 is the result of our cynicism, our utilitarian treatment of reality, voters. Well, thank you very much. But isn't that a story about yourself? In the context of talking about November 11. I'm sorry to go out here as an educator and a teacher, but sometimes you have to study for the rest of your life. [[Corruption.]] So I hope that... [[President.]] ...as we talk about events such as the century of regaining independence, we will be able to find such a minimum in terms of dialogue that we will accept your rations, and you will be willing to be in this sphere of commemoration of important events in Polish reality so deeply rooted that we will be able to function together, so to speak, in this root. I wish that to all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u232	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think I'm gonna have to disappoint you a little bit, Professor Jarin, but that's in a minute. First of all, I want to say this: the current majority has been in charge for 3 years, so at least 3 years now knows that on 11 November 2018 we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Why didn't this project, on November 11th, be a day off from work, show up a year ago, two years ago, three years ago? For 3 years you have been converting by all cases the words "Poland," "nation," "national," "patriotism," and as you have to look at the calendar and in this calendar you will see that November 11th falls on Sunday, it somehow looks weak. I would not like to say that everything comes down to words, but in this example it shows that everything comes down to those words in your country. Now I want to say this: this is not the only case that we are at such a rate prosecuting important resolutions or laws. I will no longer refer to specific examples, but this is another gem to this whole chain of hasty and messy legislation that you have been practicing here for three years. That's another proof of that. I would say this: it is unacceptable that there are no applicants here, that there are no government representatives here. What's this? At least that's all I have to say to Senator Żaryn that he took on his chest the fact that we are at such a rate and that is how we proceed over this bill. This is unacceptable. And that's the first thing. The second thing, and here it is a disappointment to Senator Żaryna, is what I want to say: I think we live in two slightly different realities, because you make such an impression, as if during these 3 days there would be some big, mass events in Poland. Here's what I'm gonna say. I wasn't going through my Senator's box and I didn't watch the invitations I might have received last week, but last week I was thinking, where am I going to spend November 11th? And I'm gonna say that I don't have any invitation from my constituency, and I haven't seen any invitation from your senators who probably check their senate mailbox more often than I do, invitations to some party where you could have mass celebrations on November 11th. So what million Poles are to come to Warsaw, and what thousands of events are to take place? In my district there are 28 municipalities and I 3 weeks before 11 November do not know where to spend this day, and I would like to spend it somewhere, because I think that the hundredth anniversary of regaining independence by Poland is an important anniversary. Do you not think that the belief that millions of Poles will manifest themselves and enjoy themselves in Warsaw is not an expectation of growth? Well, unless President Kaczyński issues a disposition to bring PiS activists to Warsaw for party money. I don't think there's a million of them, but there's gonna be a few grand. It's true. And I want to say yes. It's a matter of mode. I also talked about the fact that all the doubts that have arisen here, about the current functioning of the economy, hospitals, courts, etc., etc., are real doubts. I don't think it's all gonna happen. If a law is adopted at such a rate I would have thought her right a year ago, and two years ago I would have thought her right, and that's the kind of problem that has to happen. I fear that there will be noble intentions again, but their execution will cause all these Poles, who will be affected by difficulties, to remember 12 November 2018 not as a day off from work, during which they could enjoy the 100th annual regaining independence, only as the day on which they met their endless problems and problems. I don't think we should adopt this bill. I will vote against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u234	Thank you. Senator Alexander Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have some ability to create strange situations where they're not supposed to be. This is a very unusual holiday, November 11th, the century of regaining independence, and we should meet in about the climate that Senator Żaryn was talking about, and we are already having a two-hour discussion here, which seems to be unsatisfying to none of us and certainly not bringing us closer to the climate of the holiday on November 11th. It's sad. I was wondering if I could even perform in such a sad climate when we should celebrate, but out of such a duty, I would say, professorial I decided to say two words. Looking at this in professor's terms, I'm going to ask you a simple question: how much time does it take to draw up a bill? What's the minimum time to make a bill? In the academic climate, there are more and more times when a student comes, who would be happy to defend his master's degree in three days and hasn't done anything yet. Perhaps this error comes somewhere from the education process, and I feel responsible for it to some extent. We have lost some idea of how much time it takes for some simple projects. Do you mind if I... I'll think about it today: maybe I'll build a house. And I'm gonna start by inviting you to a housewarming party next week without asking myself how much time it takes to build a house. Well, in a week, no matter how much money they had, and I don't know how much determination, we're not gonna build a house. Because the laws of gravity and other laws decide that this is simply impossible. Meanwhile, in politics, things are possible. And unfortunately, we've gotten used to this kind of mode, and it's very disturbing, and I've already talked about it by the way... Well, unfortunately, there's been a few opportunities in the last three years to talk about it. Today we work in such a way that someone gets something in their head on Monday morning, and he assumes that if we get it right, we can actually do it through Parliament in one day. This is, ladies and gentlemen, something very bad. It lowers the rank of Parliament, but it's still a six. But it's just something very bad and dangerous. And here in this, it would seem, a small matter we have, as in some case laboratory, school, just an example of this kind of thinking, a way of action that should simply not have happened. The bill... Same as the house. It is not something that can be put up in one day, so the bill is not something that can be carried out by Parliament within a few hours without damaging the substance of the matter. And for this reason, trying to get into all this, however, this climate that should accompany the century of independence... Well, once again, but in a special way, I would like to appeal to us, as parliamentarians, as those who have a greater impact on the way we proceed in Parliament, so that in the new century, as if opening another, beautiful, we hope, a century of our independence, well, we have made certain commitments, in such a manner simply not to proceed. To take ourselves, Parliament and citizens more seriously. Don't do what I'm talking about. Even in noble intentions and with noble intentions. I think that this appeal of mine is also part of the appeal of the Professor, Senator Zarin, to celebrate the century of our independence creatively. If that were to happen, it would be very good. And another appeal, namely, that is to say, this holiday of independence, well, despite these disputes which unfortunately still on the last straight before this feast are accompanied by us... that, at least this one day, and now for three days, from 10 to 12 November, we may be able to find what we have in common, not what separates us. So we can experience that we are a community. So that... I don't know, at least during Mass or some other celebration, we would stand next to each other. Anyway, like... Well, there were shy voices from different sides that should be followed by former presidents on that day, former prime ministers, different representatives of all political parties. [[Voice from the room: They were...]] But unfortunately, it's... [[Don't repeat fake news, Senator, okay? They've been invited and don't tell people...]] ...what my previous speaker, the honourable Senator Libicki, was talking about... Well, I actually didn't find any invitations in my mailbox either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u236	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, with some embarrassment and sadness, listen to what's being said here in this room recently, because I thought something like what, but such a simple bill could be adopted almost in consensus, even if And it's the only thing actually, I don't think it's very deserving of a debate here in the Senate. It was possible, to admit, to do all this technically better. As for this, there is no doubt that it would have been better if this bill had been here a few months ago, or perhaps even earlier. It'd be better, but it is what it is. Right? We left the house this morning and it was raining, and we had to adapt. If someone didn't adjust, it got wet. And there's nothing unusual about it, that sometimes something happens that is more or less wrapped up by others or by us, but you still have to live with it, you have to deal with it somehow. And I don't think it's worth the crocodile tears right now, and so many words to sacrifice to this mode of work. But to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, century It's a truism that happens once every 100 years. And it seems perfectly natural that an extraordinary answer, just once every 100 years, could fit into it. Celebration is a natural need of man, of which there is no doubt. In all cultures and civilizations, people celebrate and it is necessary to build a community to establish bonds. All people need it. This is most clearly seen in religious celebrations, but more and more often we also celebrate various events that are not of such character. Please note that in this celebration in some sense the nature of the event, how it is mentioned or how it is celebrated, also translates into the length of the celebration. Just look at the biggest religious holidays we are celebrating, especially in Poland. Christmas is 2 days, although the Lord Jesus was born in one moment, somewhere at midnight, from Christmas Eve to the first day of Christmas. It's not common, not everyone accepts it. This second day of Christmas, which few people remember, is not even a day of mandatory church visits, but we still celebrate in this way. There's a similar situation in Easter. This Monday is just so high up just to highlight this great rank. Unfortunately, Green Christmases, which also traditionally consisted of two days, lost the other day somewhere. But this shows how important these great holidays are: Christmas, Easter, Pentecost of the Holy Spirit. Please note that traditionally also some events that are completely unreligious, only secular, are celebrated for a long time. Well, an example is weddings that sometimes last a very long time. And it's just that this is how we show how important the event that we're remembering or celebrating is. There's nothing weird about it, there's nothing out of the ordinary about it. If there are voices here that the initiative is late, but at the same time I heard voices about Christmas Eve, which could be free... I'd throw in a big Friday, 'cause in a lot of places in the world, it is. There is nothing to prevent such an initiative from arising here in the Senate. I will be happy to sign it because I think that not only ladies deserve it, but also gentlemen who are preparing Christmas or Christmas Eve supper, as well as those who are preparing for Easter, Easter Friday is a great day and in many places, in Protestant countries it is a day off from work. And it's perfectly natural. Why do we want to stop it? All these arguments that the state will lose some money, that the children will not learn that the courts will have trouble with the vocabulary, that there may be some perturbation in other areas or areas of the economy or social life... Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's the way it is. In a country that has almost 40 million people and is organized in a specific way, there are certain things that will not work so that we can all celebrate. No, I'm afraid not. As a doctor, I can tell you that I have had many Christmas Eves or other holidays, big holidays, when everyone sat at a family table together, spending time at work. Well, it's already in some competitions, and there's nothing weird about it. Is a day off from work a perturbation that conveys the meaning of accepting this particular celebration? No. Of course, as a community, as a community, with some exceptions, which must be in such a situation, even to preserve some continuity, security and order... This celebration is desirable, people enjoy it, enjoy it. Today, practically no one remembers the time when some slow Saturdays were introduced shyly, and then more and more. Then there were those who calculated how much it would cost us. But we are already a relatively wealthy country, and we do not have to count every penny to fear that one day off will fail. By the way. I've heard in these debates that are going through the media today, from a psychologist who said that people who are resting are working more effectively. So who knows if, if we count it all together, it's not even gonna pay off. But this, of course, is not an important argument or a major argument. Ladies and gentlemen, as I come to the end of my speech, I must say: I have no doubt that the fact that 11 November will be built with more days off is good. By the way, November 11th is a symbolic date, because, ladies and gentlemen, on November 12, 1918, the Regency Council... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...she entrusted Józef Piłsudski with the function of Chief Leader and he accepted it on that day. So this is a big day too. The next few days are also important days. On November 13th, the French national government, I'm sorry, he had a different name... France was admitted as Ententa to a group of countries that ended World War I. So this is the time that's stretched out, and there's no reason not to celebrate that day too. I think it's possible to get everything out of the way, you can bring everything down to some simple things, but I have such an irrefutable impression, and it's a sad feeling that there's a sacrum and a profane mix in here. Because we touch the sacrum, the century of independence. It's some kind of sanctity. I think it's worth a moment to stop arguing so hard about such details and little things, because really, in the context of what we celebrate, once every 100 years, it's just not important. And I think... on the one hand, I regret the debate here. I am completely the same opinion as Senator Żaryn, which means that it is as if there is no dimension of emphasis as to how sacred these days are. But I think there's still a chance. I would suggest that all those who see some sort of imperfection in the drafting of this bill, nevertheless, just in the sense that the days are approaching, during which we should be together, vote in favour of extending this holiday so that we can create more opportunities for ourselves to be at those big events that are organized. I think this is a great task for all of us: to celebrate together. But it's also about having a normal time to hang out with your family, go for a walk. Maybe the weather will be kind enough to make it work. And to forget, in short, what separates us, and to be together these days. And one last thing. The media issue. What was in the gym was already done. But let's not go out to the media now, which has been bombarding us with questions about this case all morning, as if we weren't accepting more important things from the point of view of public interest... The point is to stop our sharp tongues, stop accusing each other of some evil intent. Let's assume for a moment that even those who were late for this initiative wanted well. And let's join in to want well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Dorota Czudowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two words on my lips when discussing this law: more generosity, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. 12 November as a day off from work is a gift and let us treat it as a gift to the Polish people on the occasion of the century of regaining independence by Poland. There were a lot of arguments here: about losses, about those who have to work... I immediately assure my patients, the patients of the clinic that I am leading, that we will receive patients on another day, at another time, convenient for them. They will not suffer any harm because November 12th will be a day off from work. Or maybe it's worth thinking about how grateful the day is for those who, on those days of celebration, organize this celebration, which means thousands of children from music schools, artists, theatres, bands, choirs... They are already working hard, and for them these days of celebration will, of course, be the culmination of trials, they will be hard days of work. It will also be for restaurants, waiters, all prepping caterers. Let's think about them. This day of November 12 will be needed as a reflection, as just the time for walking in our cities and villages, beautifully decorated in white and red colors. I'm not waiting for someone to invite me. Although there are many of these invitations, there are also announcements, because every city, every president, every commune organizes something. And all that remains is such an invitation to accept or invite guests, the audience, people, not only their constituents, to these celebrations. I will even say that I would very much like to appeal to all those who will have to work on 12 November. As they must work, as it has already been said, on Christmas Eve, on Good Friday, on Christmas In the name of the fact that it's a gift, the bigger it's unexpected... Maybe this is the way to treat him: not only is it a nice gift, a good gift, a beautiful gift, it's a surprise! And maybe you should treat It's like this: if we're already serving, we have to serve people on this day. And there'll be plenty of people like that. Well, maybe we don't blame ourselves for the extra pay, the overtime pay. We all often repeat the prayer of Father Piotr Skarga at various celebrations... In order to make no mistake, I'm going to read this passage. Although I know him by heart, it is possible to make mistakes in such situations. "All-powerful eternal God, let us have a broad and deep love for our brothers and beloved Mother, our Homeland, so that we may forget her and your people, our interests, and serve them honestly. Do we forget our benefits only when we don't have them? More generosity, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! More generosity! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u240	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll refer to the summons of Senator Professor Galin, who had a good speech here. But I paid attention to that, I'm sorry when you said, Mr. Senator, that you had to play teacher and teach us how to care how we care. Read: Games; that's how I understood it. 'Cause we're giving a day off because we're celebrating an extra holiday. I don't accept that philosophy. Well, there are sowers and there are organizers of the games. There are people who give freedom, and there are people who want to enjoy this freedom. That's it. And I would also like to point out, not as a educator, that almost a year ago, an initiative came out of the office of the President concerning the celebration of the century of regaining independence. It was a year to prepare various activities, the notabene was allocated PLN 250 million for these purposes. However, the composition of the national committee was essentially state-owned. He collected people in several segments, but in the first segment he gathered only politicians from the PiS. [[Oh, come on, Senator, please, I'm calling you into order because you're saying...]] No, you can't, Mr... [[You're not telling the truth.]] Let me quote you a line. [[There are, sir, all club presidents, all political party heads and Mrs. Gronkiewicz-Waltz. Don't tell me it's not true.]] Mr. Marshal, I was just checking... [[Don't tell me... I'm calling you...]] ...on the Internet. And you are, but that's not an excuse, because that's the kind of person that should be. [[Then don't tell me...]] 250 million zlotys have been earmarked for these purposes. And I'll give you a compliment: the Senate is fulfilling these statutory obligations because of you. It was thanks to you that it was possible to organize the nationwide White Eagle competition, in which 15 thousand people and most senators participated. 15,000 Children have practically taken up the symbolism of the White Eagle over the millennia. Nevertheless, the whole committee was The first part, because it consisted of several segments I'd say a uniform political, uniform party, but it was called a national party. Surely, Mr. Marshal, you will agree this time, but please don't interrupt me. In this committee, in the second part, so-called. Socially, you were the chairman of my Duda relationship. But certainly on this national committee, which was to unite among others. for this day and not only for this day, for the whole year and even later for 2 years, because these celebrations will continue until 2021. The independent insurrection lacked those who had hard negotiations with Jelcyn and led the Soviet troops out of our territory and from Europe. Mr Lech Wałęsa's actions are different from those of Mr Lech Wałęsa. I'm one of the critics myself, even I was an opponent. But it is undeniable that this is the greatest achievement of the century in terms of independence, i.e. the highest value of the Polish state. He's not here. Mr. Marshal also interrupted one of his colleagues' appearances and said the invitations were sent. Then I'd like to know from your marshal. And I will agree to interrupt if a man who is a Polish value has been invited not only in Poland but also in the world. Mr President of the European Union... [[Advice.]] ...European Council Donald Tusk. You think it's maybe not that important. If he is not invited, I say that others will not come, and we all care. Okay, we're gonna say yes. Our neighbors, our neighbors, who once were enemies, opposers of independence, also sit in the Senate halls and others. Today we would like them to celebrate our great success, our independence, which we regained in dramatic circumstances 100 years ago and which we later had to defend after 51 years of Soviet presence. The next issue is the matter of technology. Well, Mr. Senator Radziwiłł, you're becoming independent in different ways. I'm celebrating. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, But he's been working hard all year to make it independent. The health care you've been running, and the cleaning lady, and the rural women who are preparing wreaths for the harvest... It hurts me that you're accusing us of not being able to organize ourselves for the holidays, building a community. Yes, because this is not enough, this community must be built for many years, for the next 100 years. But not in such a tone that we are a nation, and the others are traitors. And that's what I'm getting from your electorate. So that I ask Poland to do so: let us all be Poles for the next 100 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u242	Who's next? Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first sentence I'd like to address to you is Professor Zarin. Very often we talk to each other and, in general, if we talk with each other, we talk with respect and that we can talk with each other. However, Professor Senator, he has a certain manner of speaking, and it's been once... It is such an attempt to rip off the other side of any positive patriotic feelings, to share and in a sense to boil away, to dissuade what the other side feels and thinks. The senator claims that he does not hear in our statements this joy, the importance of this event, or the constant repetition that it is 100 years, that it is so important. Mr. Senator, I don't think... It is as with religious sentiments: there are very many people of deep faith who do not have to lay cross in the middle of the square, and who are hard to blame, since their lives are right and in line with the precepts that they are not believers. How will you feel when you go out on November 11 to celebrate in a suit and meet a young patriot wearing a patriotic T-shirt with an inscription on his back and front, and he will come up to you and ask: why so modestly? And why aren't you testifying? I mean, you can do better and better. In developing what you were talking about, Senator Radziwiłł decided to instruct us about what happened on November 12th. You said, Mr. Senator, that on November 12th, the Regency Council handed over military power and chief command to Piłsudski. We seem to have different sources. Well, we have authority in this courtroom, and if you need anything, you can ask. It was on 11 November, and on the 12th it was the Regency Council that wanted to entrust the task of creating the Piłsudski government, which he did not accept, and so on 14 November the Council dissolved itself. Is it because I haven't got the wrong dates, that I'm a better patriot? I don't think so, I don't think so. I just wanted to show that there's a historical consciousness on that side, too. And last but not least... Of course, I could talk for a long time about how this was prepared, but all I have to do is send people who might someday want to read this transcript to what Senator Bobko said. Yes, sir. The important thing is that we're all going to celebrate together, we're all going to be happy. Moreover, it so happens that this date, so to speak, includes us in the European celebration, because there are countries, powerful and close to us, which celebrate the same day. All the more reason to stress that this is a phenomenal date. It is rare that on two sides of the continent 2 nations celebrate the same event on the same day. Therefore, I would like to say that without questioning our commitment and the joy of this 100th, round anniversary, I will continue to claim that this spoon of the day according to the old proverb may be many people who will be surprised by what will happen on the twelfth, because it is done at the last moment, unfortunately spoil the whole barrel of honey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u244	Thank you very much. Senator locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! He'll be out of my league if my vote is taken as a polemic voice to anyone's voice. That's not my intention. Ladies and gentlemen, it was said that this bill would cause confusion in economic trade, that this law would cause chaos, disrupt the work of schools and offices, that this law was an ad hoc, emotional initiative, beyond the possibility to think that this law would violate international agreements, that it was an act of Polish exaltation, that this ridiculousness and irresponsibleness was asked: did God take away your reason? That this bill will strike the decisions of Poles in life, that it will put many people before the fact. They asked what the costs of this initiative were. It was said that the bill was surprising that it was too late. Who's behind this? That this will lead to contradictions and very many specific problems. Such doubts arose during the project: Poland independent. I am convinced that the ancestors of all of us in this room 100 years ago broke such doubts and many others, thanks to which Poland was founded independent. Let us not be restrained in rejoicing in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I get the feeling we're discussing two different things. The Senators of Law and Justice, justifying the law written on their knees on the day off on November 12, speak not of November 12, but of the importance of the celebration of Independence Day, which falls on November 11th. It's like one thing has something to do with the other. After all, Independence Day is November 11th. [[Exactly.]] Celebrating this day in a dignified and elevated way has nothing to do with the free day of November 12. On November 12th, a day off or a working day will in no way raise the rank of November 11th. He's got nothing to do with it. I listened to Senator Radziwił's arguments about the superiority of two-day celebrations over one-day celebrations. Senator, if you'll excuse me, this is the level of discussion we're discussing about the superiority of Easter Christmas. [[It is known that Easter is more important.]] [[It's okay. It's logical.]] We can discuss. It will be the same discussion as discussing whether to celebrate for 2 days or celebrate 1 day. Today, High Senate, we are not discussing whether it is better to celebrate for 2 days or celebrate 1 day, but we are discussing procedures. [[Better.]] [[Better.]] What's our situation? We've been discussing this for at least a year. The government and various other state bodies are preparing to celebrate the century of regaining independence by Poland. And suddenly, a few days before the end, there is the idea of a gift for a part of society in the form of 1 day off on the pretext of celebrating Independence Day. In my opinion, this idea is not accidentally abandoned during the election campaign, before the important finale of this campaign. I am convinced that the intention here is not to celebrate 11 November better, but to send a signal that a generous government gives the public a gift in the form of 1 day off. The bill is legislatively poorly prepared. It raises a lot of doubts. He's gonna disorganize a lot of public life. So please do not repeat here, do not use the well-founded argument that those who want to celebrate for 2 days the century of regaining independence want to celebrate more worthy than those who want to celebrate Independence Day only on November 11th. That's good enough for them on November 11th. They don't have to rest on November 12 after the celebration. I would ask that we focus on this and leave the holiday on November 11th within the limits of November 11th. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'm sure November 11th is one of those days we should celebrate. We've been waiting 100 years for this day. The parliamentary initiative is very valuable, but the discussion that takes place in the Senate and in the media shows that this day is very much between us. There's something else bothering me. I don't understand why a part of the public should work on November 12th. I'm supposed to go to work. And a part of society is to celebrate. If we're celebrating, then we're celebrating. If this is November 11th, then we celebrate November 11th. And may all Poles celebrate Not only in Poland, but also in Polonia. So 60 million Poles celebrate Independence Day. Just to be clear, when this day is He's not on Monday. I'm celebrating November 11th... [[Applause]] [[Me too.]] I miss this discussion... You don't talk about another day off. This is the day we don't raise our GDP. And we are going to chase the EU countries, we, this year, as planned, are going to outrun Portugal in terms of GDP per capita income. As a nation we must remember one thing It is only work that we can catch up with the EU countries. And let's talk about this job, let's say that work is extremely important to everyone, that work is valuable, that thanks to the fact that some people work more Maybe she's smarter, maybe better educated, maybe she was born, I'd say, under better conditions... This part of society, working, working on those who work less, is less resourceful. So it's 500+ we're moving from this part of the society that works more into the part of society that needs it... [[That's right.]] But we have to talk about work ethos. Every extra day off... I am not saying that he is not important because he is important, but this is an additional day that delays us from reaching EU level. I don't want to share, because I think the Senate is a House of pride, but also wisdom... Let us therefore consider together whether this Monday, 12 November, is so important in celebrating the centenary of independence of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u250	Thank you very much. Is anyone else speaking or not? No. The discussion is closed. Because there was a formal motion, and there was no quorum, I'm going to try right now... Is there a quorum? You're welcome... Mr. Marshal has filed a formal motion... [[No, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u251	Mr. Marshal, don't bring this to my conclusion... it doesn't lead to a psychic situation. We have finished the discussion, and my proposal was for a break so that a government representative could come here. [[Voice from the room: Right now it's already...]] We're done with the discussion right now, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u252	But here's your conclusion, Mr. Marshal... [[Don't put that motion to the vote, because it's a psychic! Why should a government representative come now?]] Well, that's because you've made such a request, Mr. Marshal. [[Why?]] Yeah, you did. I don't know why. You called it in. [[I volunteered to ask him... and you made it impossible.]] You're canceling... So I don't vote on this proposal. Yes? [[No.]] Vote, not vote? Well, Mr. Marshal, you said not to vote. Tell me if you... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...you're retreating from this conclusion... [[...that motion didn't make any sense.]] I see. Thank you very much. [[And you know it.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, of course, I'm sorry. The vote will be at the end of the meeting. This is true. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask you, before this is voted on, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a recess for an hour... [[And the committees?]] Yeah, okay, and I'll count... There you go. I'm gonna need an ad.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u253	The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Local Roads Fund Act will be held today, immediately after the announcement of a break in the session, in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of the requests for the Act on the Establishment of the National Christmas on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence will take place today, 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in session, in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Act on Personal Income Tax, the Act on Corporate Income Tax, the Act on Tax Law and some other laws will take place today, immediately after the announcement of a break in the proceedings, in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the review of the proposals for the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance will take place today, 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in session, in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u254	Dismissed until 4:35 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 36 to 16 minutes 13]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u255	I'd like to inform you of the extension of the break until 5:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 13 to 17 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u256	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 21, 22 and 23 November this year. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. Dear Senators, on your desktops you will find a publication on the occasion of the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the first Senate meeting of the third term, 1993 and 1997. October 19th this year a formal meeting of senators of the third term took place in the Senate. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No. 980. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee unanimously adopted the draft resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees at its meeting on 24 October and recommends that the High House adopt it. Resolution of the Senate on changes in the membership of Senate committees. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismiss Senator Andrzej Stanisławek from the Health Committee. The Senate of the Republic of Poland elects Senator Andrzej Stanisławek to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u258	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I can't see. I can't hear anyone. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 74 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 962 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 72 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the second agenda: a law amending the Act amending the Law on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 957 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration at its meeting on 25 October 2018 examined the requests made by Senator Tadeusz Kopcia and considered that they were outside the scope of the Act. The committee therefore proposes to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Kopeć, Senator Tadeusz Kopeć, still want to speak? [[No.]] No? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, supported by the committee, to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 72 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a report in which it included a summary of the proposals submitted at the committee meeting; Senate printing No 967 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 51 against. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 4 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 2 and 5. Amendments 1 and 4 indicate the Chief Labour Inspector as the entity to which a staff member of the State Labour Inspection should make a declaration on the performance of specific activities by the persons closest to him, and prejudice that the declaration will be made not only by PIP employees carrying out control activities but also by the supervising staff. In addition, the amendments seek to extend the scope of the declaration. It will apply not only to persons closest to PIP employees carrying out business activities but also to activities on the basis of employment relationships or other legal bases. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 19 were in favour, 52 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] We are voting on Amendments 2 and 5. Amendments 2 and 5 prejudice that a statement on the performance by the closest persons of a specific activity will be made not only by the PIP employee carrying out the inspection activities but also by the supervising worker. The amendments aim above all to correlate the scope of the statement made by the staff member of the State Labour Inspection with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on State Labour Inspection setting out the entity for the control of State Labour Inspection. In accordance with the amendments, the employee's statement will relate to the exercise by the closest person not only of economic activity but also of activities on the basis of employment relationship or other legal basis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 73 voted in favour, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 3 considers that the failure by a staff member of the State Labour Inspection to make a statement required by the Act, to make a statement which is incorrect or not to update the declaration should be regarded as inappropriate in carrying out his duties, which may give rise to termination of the employment relationship after termination. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 20 were in favour, 52 against. [[Voting No 12]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 50 against, 25 against. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act on Employee Capital Plans. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 968 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 October, at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the amendments tabled by the committees and amendments presented by Senator Rulewski were examined. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u262	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have tabled 8 amendments to this key and important law. I will not quote them all in extenso, but I will say that 3 of them, most importantly, are to allow people whose professional activity takes more than 60 years to participate in the PPK programme, as the Act states, i.e. the duration of their professional activities. The second amendment aims at changing the proportion of payments and fixed amounts as the age goes on. Today, this law only specifies that a one-time payment of 25% appropriations collected at the age of 60 and subsequently broken down into 120 instalments. And finally... This is precisely why, if one of these insured people collects less instalments, e.g. as a result of the approaching, let's say, the metric period, that is punishable by tax. The fourth amendment states that the budgetary sphere in this law will be included In the goodness of this law It's not for more than two years. We say that this period for preparation should last at most a year. We simply do not want to discriminate against the budgetary sphere. Please... [[It's still valorizing.]] Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. And thank you very much. Indeed, Senator Augustyn is also the author of the amendments. More corrections... What's important is valorization. A favorable welcome fee, 240... [[250.]] ...250 PLN, and an amount each year supplementing staff contributions of 250 PLN... [[240.]] ...240 zlotys would be valued, and there is no record of this in the bill. Of course, there was also a draft amendment on privacy guarantees. There's a simple record that says that this is private property, that's a very good term, but it's not saying what's gonna happen if this rule is violated, which can happen under the law. That was the case with OFE. We say that then the cartridges should be returned, but they should also be refunded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u264	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the other gentlemen, Senator rapporteur or Senator applicant, want to speak yet? Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki? [[Thank you.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, supported by the joint committees, to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted; 51 were in favour, 23 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Employee Capital Plans. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 955 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Cosmetic Products Act. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 963 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Cosmetics Act. We are returning to the ninth agenda: the Public Documents Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 956 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 takes into account the terminology used by the tachograph law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 74 were in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendments 2, 3 and 6 should be voted on together. Amendment 2 adapts the terminology used by the Act to the Act on the Protection of Classified Information. Amendments 3 and 6 pursue the same objective. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 4 makes the person making the declaration of non-punishment subject to criminal liability for making false statements, not statements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 5 ensures that the correct name of the Commander of the Military Police is used. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 7 aims to clarify the classification of international classified information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're still voting... Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 8 causes soldiers of the Military Gendarmerie to have the same powers when performing operational and exploratory activities in relation to the possibility of using public documents. Officers or officers of the Homeland Security Agency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome... Oh, just a minute. Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment No 9 corrects the amendment order contained in the Law of 24 November 2017 amending the Road Traffic Law and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] The ninth was already there, wasn't it? Good. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Public Documents. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantage in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have tabled a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 965 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 54 votes against, 1 against, 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantage in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products. We are returning to the eleventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 966 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 73 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Products of Animal Origin and the Act on Food Safety and Nutrition. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject; it is in print No 969 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 25 October 2018 considered the proposals put forward in the course of the debate on the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to adopt the amendments set out in point II of Amendment Nos 1, 4 Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? The conclusions were made by Senators Libicki, Chróścikowski, Poślednik and Kaminski during the discussion. [[No.]] Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on Senator Jan Filip Libicki's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against... [[Senator of the PSL.]] Yeah, with PSL. Okay... [[Talking in the O.R.]] A motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 7 for, 52 against, 12 abstentions. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the bill... [[Voice in the room: 16 stopped.]] Yeah, 16, and I said 14. [[Voice from the room: You said 12.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Well, that's average.]] Yeah, the average is 14. I will repeat the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 7 for, 52 against, and only 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 19, 29 and 42 introduce the principle of liquidation of the rural hostel circle modelled on the Foundations Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to apply... Yeah, just a minute. Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 2... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: No. 3...]] Ah, number three. Good. Amendments 3, 14 and 32 abolish restrictions on the setting up of rural housewives' wheels and the joining of rural housewives' circles. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 22 votes against, 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 4 introduces the seat of the rural hostel circle as a priority criterion for registration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendments 5 and 13 correctly formulate a provision of competence for decision-making and eliminate statements from the law suggesting that the law does not contain comprehensive regulation and activities of the rural hostel circles. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 74 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 31]] Amendments 6, 11, 18 and 38 introduce the terminology of the Civil Code into the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted in favour, 75 in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 7 correctly specifies the representation of the rural hostel circle, emphasising that commitment is part of representation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-four senators voted, 51 against, 23 against. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 8 correctly... [[Voice from the room: Amendment 9...]] Oh, in the event of rejection, and it was accepted. Okay. So now Amendment 9... I'm sorry. Amendments 9, 24, 40 and 47 remove the contradiction in the law as regards the possibility of dividing the profits of the wheel between its members. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 72 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 10 deletes the part of the provision which vaguely sets out the principles of liability for members of the founders of the circle. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 23 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 12 deletes the unnecessary word. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 15 excludes from the separate editorial unit a provision allowing the directors of the county offices to be authorised to issue a decision, extends the scope of that authorisation and gives it the correct wording. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 16 determines the priority of registration of the wheel due to the order in which the application is submitted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 17 improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 21 complements the data contained in the register on the circles of rural hostess. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 22 complements the data contained in the register in respect of members of the circle. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 22 complements the data contained in the register regarding... [[Amendments 23 and 39.]] Was it number 22? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Now amendments 23 and 39, which align the terminology of the law and adapt it to the terminology of the Civil Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] Amendments 25, 26 and 46 remove the contradiction in the law as regards the presumption of competence of the wheel bodies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 27 removes unnecessary words. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 28 decides on the obligation to initiate supervisory activities at the request of a government representative for small and medium-sized enterprises. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 31 introduces an indication of a provision distinguishing it from a provision which entered into force earlier. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 33 shortens the deadline for the declaration of existing registration wheels to one month on new rules and modifies the procedure in this regard. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 24 against. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 34 allows the registration of all rural hostels who have so far worked in the rural area. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 35 clarifies the procedure for financial assistance to the groups of rural hostess. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 36 sets the ceiling for expenditure on financial assistance for the rural hostel's wheels and introduces an adjustment mechanism. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 37 extends vacathio legis to 14 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 51 against. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 41 harmonises the rules for the establishment of quorums in the model status of the rural hostel circle. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 44 corrects syntax errors. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Which now... [[Voice from the room: 45.]] Good. Amendment 45 removes the contradiction between the provisions of the law and the model statute of the village housewives. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 75 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 54]] We are now voting on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 65 were in favour, 4 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation of the State-owned utility enterprise - Poczta Polska. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 964 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 70 were in favour, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation of the State-owned public utility enterprise We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 958 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which they requested an amendment to the Act. It's a 960 A senate print. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. The amendment raises doubts as to who will be able to exercise the right to acquire the shares covered by the Treasury free of charge as a result of the acquisition of the acquired company and the provisions of the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees to be applied to such acquisition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 72 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 58]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 54 votes against, 10 against, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Law on the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptibles. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; print No 961 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 55 for, 7 against, 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptibles. We would like to return to agenda item 17: the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 959 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No 735 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Rafał Ambrozik to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 72 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 62]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the implementation of the Penal Code and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Rafał Ambrozik to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the bill on the provision of compensation services. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 862 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u267	Mr. Marshal! At its meeting on 26 October, the committees discussed the proposals made during the debate of 25 October on the Law on the provision of compensation services, the committee's report is contained in print No 862 X. They recommend that the Senate adopt amendments No 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were submitted by Senators Bierecki, Rulewski, Cichoń and Stanisławek. [[I'd like to.]] There you go. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to repeat what I already reported yesterday. Namely, I find it devoid of... and even irrational to include in this law the pursuit of activities in the field of compensation... I am referring to two categories of people, namely lawyers and lawyers. These are separate categories of people who are characterized by the fact that they have completed studies, have completed applications completed with a given exam, are included on specific lists and have their deontological collection, which is much wider, much more demanding than what is proposed in this law. And, as I said yesterday, there is no reason to include them in this bill for those who do not need any qualifications which in their previous activities have shown that they do not respect fundamental ethical principles. It's all about soliciting patients in hospitals to give a power of attorney to claim damages, or getting these compensations and taking them as fees. sometimes up to 50% The sums collected, or finally taking directly into your power this money from compensation companies, which, of course, in any activity of any lawyer or counsel can not even be thought of. Then I find it even irrational. To say no, it's a ridiculous combination... It is as if in one act we want to combine a doctor and a felcher or a doctor and a nurse, set for them a level playing field. Hence my call, however, for this amendment which I tabled, the High House to accept. I'm not gonna dwell on it because it's late. Thank you. [[What number?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u270	No, it's 17th... It's not late, 5:40. [[What number?]] Good. [[Second amendment.]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No.]] No. Then we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, print No 862 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print No 862 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 complements the provision defining the scope of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't tell me. Well, they all have materials. [[Mr. Marshal, we're moving on.]] Yeah, but it doesn't matter, these... Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 70 for and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 63]] Amendments 2, 3 and 10 must be voted together. They exclude lawyers and lawyers from the scope of the Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-two senators voted, 35 against, 32 against, and five senators abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 4 amends the way in which the rules on the remuneration of lawyers are described. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for a vote. Gentlemen sitting in the front row, please do not comment. We vote, not comment. We'll be commenting at home. Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 65 were in favour, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 5 eliminates the prohibition of certain forms of advertising and acquisition of compensation services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 70 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 6 harmonises terminology. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 5 is... [[Voice from the room: No. 7.]] Amendment 7, of course. Amendment 7 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 73, all senators were in favour. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 8 changes the place of the provision prohibiting certain forms of advertising and acquisitions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 71 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 9 prohibits the transfer of claims from unlawful acts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 11. [[Voice from the Chamber: Now vote on the whole.]] Excuse me? The whole thing? In case of rejection... Oh, those were accepted. Good. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the draft law in its entirety with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 72 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on the provision of services in the field of redress resulting from an illegal act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate print No 977 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please don't talk because it's bothering you. We can take a break so you guys can talk. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 72]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. Before the session was interrupted, the Ombudsman of children's rights answered the senators' questions. We are voting to give our consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman of the child's rights to Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska. Who is in favour of calling Agnieszka Dudzińska's child's ombudsperson? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 1 was in favour, 67 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate did not agree to the appointment of Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska as an Ombudsman of the rights of the child. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're back to processing the point... [[Something's broken.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senator... You guys want a break? Well, we can take a break and then you'll discuss it. [[No, Mr. Marshal, I just asked a question...]] We're back to processing... [[...what's going on in the PiS.]] We're not commenting, Mr. Senator. I think you know that. Unless you don't know. We are back to discussing item twenty-third of the agenda: the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No.972 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which has been sitting today, recommends that the High Senate adopt a draft resolution on the adoption of the Act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u273	Indeed, there is a lack of money to support people with disabilities, but they are mostly lacking in the system. This system is mainly based on the work of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. If the measures envisaged for the implementation of this law were addressed there, if this law were to amend the Act on the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, then those objectives which are enshrined in the Act could be successfully achieved. However, this law actually excludes from the social control and participation of stakeholders the huge money that should be spent on activating unemployed people, including those obtained from other sources. Especially since our amendments were not adopted at the committee meeting, which were to civilise this law, we are asking for its rejection.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u274	Thank you. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Mr. Senator Rulewski? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn? [[...Rejection.]] I'm asking if you still want to speak. In this procedure, you may speak twice. Well, that's what it looks like. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Oh, no, maybe... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 73 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 20 against, and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law on the Self-Government Road Fund. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 973 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the committee you mentioned earlier... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...I would like to present a position regarding the Self-Government Road Fund, this very act. And so: committees have examined 16 proposals, except that the first proposal concerned the adoption of a law without amendments and this proposal has not been accepted by the committee. [[Did he get it or not?]] He didn't. [[He didn't.]] Since 7 senators, members of the committee, voted in favour and 7 also voted against, the proposal was not accepted by the committee. The 15 amendments tabled by the senators were then considered and these amendments were not accepted by the committee either. This time six senators were in favor and eight senators were against it. Therefore, none of the conclusions received acceptance of the joint committees. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u276	We're coming... No. I know what's going on. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed to the vote... [[But, Mr. Marshal, can you have a question...]] But we're already voting. [[But I couldn't turn myself in before, and I wanted to ask you a question...]] No, but there's no formula here... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean there isn't one?]] Come on, Mr. Senator. What are you talking about? [[There isn't?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. Are you... are you an applicant senator... [[I don't know what the situation is.]] That's hard enough. Whether the Senator, Jadwiga Rotnicka, or the other Senator rapporteur, Piotr Florek, want to take back the announcements ? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[The voice from the room: But I would like to...]] There is no possibility, Senator, at this point, of asking questions to applicants and rapporteurs. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 14 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Fund for Self-Government Roads. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farming Animals. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 976 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a report which the committee has prepared today in connection with the application for rejection. The Commission has rejected and asked for the proposal contained in point II, i.e. the adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u278	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on Senator Kazimierz Kleina's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 21 senators voted in favour, 51 against. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the rejection of the proposal to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 50 senators voted, 21 were in favour... Oh, I'm sorry. 71 senators voted, 50 votes against, 21 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Tax Law, and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 970 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 26 October, the Commission examined the proposals made during the debate held on 26 October on the Act amending the Income Tax Act of natural persons, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Law on Tax Law and certain other laws. The Commission asks the High Senate to accept the proposal contained in point I, i.e. to adopt the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u280	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Kazimierz Kleina still want to speak? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. I would remind you that Senator Kazimierz Kleina withdrew his application, point II, point 3 in print No 970 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance backed by a committee to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 52 against, 20 against. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on taxation and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 971 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 71 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 79]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Electronic Invoicing Act in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution which proposes amendments to the Act; Senate print No 975 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 deletes a non-normative rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] Amendment 2 corrects language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 3 adds a substantive provision prejudicing that the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs acts as the national management body within OpenPEPPOL. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] Amendment 4 deletes the repetition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 Senators voted, 72 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 83]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're voting. Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 84]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Electronic Invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. We return to the examination of the item on the 29th agenda: the Act on the establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Culture and Media took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 978 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u281	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Media Culture at its meeting today discussed the proposals made during the debate, including today, on the Act on the establishment of a national holiday on the occasion of the centenary of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland. The committees request the High Senate to accept the proposal contained in point I, i.e. the minority's motion to reject the law. But let me add that this was due to the absence of several Senators of Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't matter.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u282	Which ones? Oh, come on, he can't... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: Objection! Objection! I object. That's not true. The committee...]] But we don't vote on it. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: That's not true.]] Did the senators of the applicant... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: That's not true.]] ...or do the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? The conclusions were made by Senator Czesław Ryszka and Senator Jan Rulewski during the discussion. In addition, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka and Senator Jan Rulewski were the rapporteurs of the joint committees. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes, I do.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u283	First of all, I would like to say that the senator is not telling the truth, because the committee meeting did not only start on time after the announcement, but even with a few minutes delay, and the composition at the committee meeting was the result of the vote. So the two joint committees voted to reject it. And I ask you to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u284	Thank you very much, Senator. Are you still Senator Jan Rulewski? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u285	The minority proposal restores the principle of equality of citizens in this law in the face of the celebration of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland by deleting the article, in which a large group of trade workers were excluded. Moreover, the unnecessary and erroneous preamble is deleted. And yet, I would say, logically, the wording of the provision on what is 12 November 2018 is improving. Thank you on behalf of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I thank Senator Ryszka for joining this motion. But yet, as the author of the amendment tabled at today's session, which aims to ensure that this principle of equality also includes health professionals and pharmacies, I ask Senator Ryszka to join this amendment as a representative of a significant group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u286	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: Request from the committee.]] [[The joint committee's motion.]] On the motion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But this is the committee's first motion, and there have already been joint committees... [[Connected.]] That's... Yes. Okay. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We say what's in the first sitting, not the second. It's always been that way, from the beginning, for 30 years. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 29 years. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[Not bad.]] We're coming... Well, I wouldn't vote. Please give me the results. Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 21 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 85]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 deletes the preamble. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 Senators voted, 70 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 86]] The committee... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 2 eliminates the indication that the newly established holiday will be solemn. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 68 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 3 aims to ensure that on 12 November 2018 rules on restrictions on trade similar to those in force on Sundays and other holiday days are in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 69 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 4 aims to ensure that on 12 November 2018 health care works as on holidays. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 17 votes against, 53 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 89]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 68 senators voted, 46 votes against, 20 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. Can I have this one, please? Declarations... It's not in the script, it's not... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is it? I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the sixty-sixth meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome, Senator. [[I didn't make the train.]] There's gonna be another one. We take care of the trains. [[What if there are strikes?]] It won't.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make two statements today. I am the first to address Mr Łukasz Szumowski and Mr Adam Bodnar, Health Minister. It concerns a social project so-called. an anti-vaccine which was directed by the Sejm to work in committee. Let me point out that I'm not a doctor. I am in favour of mandatory vaccinations. But on the basis of this case, there was a legal problem that a young medical student from my constituency had reported to me. This problem seems interesting to me, and I would therefore like to ask Mr Bodnar and the Minister of Health to interpret this problem. I'll read the text prepared by this young man. The questions are 2. First question: Can the corporate court hold professional responsibility for the content of the opinions and views of the active members of the professional chamber who are also parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland? Problem: On 9 October this year, the President of the District Medical Chamber in Warsaw submitted an application to the Chief Professional Ombudsman for the opening of proceedings concerning professional liability against Members who voted in favour of the process of a civil project, one of the objectives of which is the introduction of voluntary vaccination in Poland. The reasons for the proposal are based on the provisions of the Code of Medical Ethics: Art. 1 paragraph 2 and 3, Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) In a summary of the proposal, President Łukasz Jankowski states: "In summary, in my opinion, the actions mentioned above. doctors in the form of voting in favour of further work on the citizens' bill abolishing compulsory vaccinations of children and statements of an anti-health nature significantly violate the good of the medical condition and constitute a professional offence. The alleged issue of anti-health statements concerned Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, and the allegations made against other Members concern the vote in favour of the civil project itself. This is translated, among others. Official appeal by the Bureau of the General Medical Council of 4 October on a civil project on the freedom of vaccination and Article. 76 Code of Medical Ethics: In cases not provided for in the Code of Medical Ethics, the principles expressed in the resolutions of the medical authorities, in the case law of the medical courts and in the good manners adopted by the medical community are to be followed. First of all, the question arises as to whether, in the light of the current constitution, the Code of Medical Ethics can be held responsible for the professional responsibility of Polish Members, in particular when we draw attention to the article. 105 §1: The Member may not be held liable for his or her activities within the scope of the parliamentary mandate, either during or after its expiry. The Member shall be liable only to the Sejm and, in the event of a breach of the rights of third parties, may be held liable only with the consent of the Sejm. In my opinion, this young man writes The motion of the President of the District Medical Chamber is contrary to the constitution guaranteeing freedom to preach views to Members of the Republic of Poland. At the time of appeal to the general courts, the accused parliamentarians will, in my opinion, be acquitted. Furthermore, this type of practice of attracting professional responsibility for voting may in future be a form of emphasis on parliamentarians associated with professional self-governments. Please also note that the proposal does not directly concern the issue of vaccination and the civil project, but this discussion has resulted in a very important issue. If a professional body can hold members who are parliamentarians voting against the official position of a professional body, it shall be responsible for the professional responsibility. This case should be examined not only in the case of a medical court but also in the case of other professional courts. And second question of this young man: can a corporate court hold professional responsibility for the content of opinions and views of active members of the Chamber of Commerce who are not parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland at the same time. The problem is presented as follows: whether, in the case where a general professional body issues an official position on a given case, e.g. as the above-mentioned appeal of the Bureau of the General Medical Council of 4 October this year, a member of the ordinary Chamber of Professional Affairs, who is not a parliamentarian, may declare a position contrary to the official position of the local government in a situation where the Code of Professional Affairs recommends that members simply follow the position of the chief body of professional self-government, e.g. in that Article. 76 Code of Medical Ethics. In the event of recourse to universal courts and appeals to the content of the Article. 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland: Everyone shall be granted the freedom to express his views and to obtain and disseminate information, such a member of the medical chamber shall be exonerated? The issue seems quite interesting to me and I would very much like to ask both of the addressees of my statement to present their respective legal opinions in this regard. This is the first statement. [[Applause]] The second statement is also directed to... [[I support this statement.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Statement two... [[It's been five minutes.]] I'm addressing Mr. Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman, and the Attorney General, Mr. Zbigniew Ziobra. In today's media, the portals Gazeta.pl and Wirtualna Polska have reported that citizens quite massively benefit from the emergency complaint introduced by the President. In both of these publications it is stated that 1 000 700 such complaints have already been received by Mr Adam Bodnar about the final judgments, and 2 000 300 have been filed by Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, the Attorney General. In the same article, it is stated that the two gentlemen of these conclusions which have been received have passed one motion to the Supreme Court. And my questions are: how many such proposals until this point in time, when I make this statement, have been influenced by both institutions, and how do you estimate how much more can it affect? At what rate will these requests be reported? Assuming that there are 1 000 700 applications in one institution and 2 000 in the other 300, when you complete your review of these requests. And in what proportion do you think you will refer them to the Supreme Court? I'm asking you to give me this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u288	Thank you. You've exceeded the senator's time, but we'll spare you. [[How much, Marshal?]] Senator Jan Rulewski... Just three minutes. [[But the first marshal liked it very much.]] Because I support that opinion of this student or young doctor. [[Mr. Marshal, maybe I'll have that kind of sympathy after my statement...]] You have a permanent sympathy. [[I ask you to be sympathetic to Senator Libicki.]] You know, I only showed... [[Sympathy for PSL! This is a sympathy for PSL!]] ...support... [[See how he's using it?]] All I've said is that I agree with this statement. But there's no discussion of the statement. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making my statement on behalf of a group of PO senators, and I am directing it to the honourable Mr Lech Wałęsa, President of the Republic of Poland in 1990 and to the information of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński, and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance Jarosław Szark. Today marks the twenty-seventh anniversary of the signing of the agreement on the withdrawal of Russian troops from Poland. It was a great political and military event. These troops, commonly recognized as occupations, stayed in Poland for 51 years as a result of the cooperation of satellite governments of Polish communists and socialists. Their stay in Poland and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe marked the shape of Europe, dividing it into 2 opposing blocks: democratic and totalitarian. The Russian troops were a bloody gendarme of this order, putting out social and independence aspirations in Hungary and Czechoslovakia and even Afghanistan. We Poles felt their uncontrollable presence on a daily basis, as well as threats, even if they threatened to intervene in 1956. This was particularly felt by the generation of "Solidarity," whose social and national aspirations were suppressed from the outside and inside by the threat of armed intervention. It can also be assumed that under the umbrella of the Warsaw Pact army, martial law was introduced in Poland in 1981. It should be noted that these peaceful revolutions in the Soviet army's countries of residence, especially in Poland, led the Russian army out of these countries. In Poland this was possible thanks to President Lech Wałęsa, and the Russian troops left our country peacefully and on the way of law. This is the way we pay tribute to President Lech Wałęsa and his colleagues at the time to the highest recognition and respect. In the coming days we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. We celebrate this holiday because of the breakthrough and dramatic events that brought Poland back to independence. However, we who, in such a universal and organized form, participated in regaining independence in 1991, after the Soviet occupation, feel obliged to recall this event 27 years ago. We consider it appropriate that this event should be commemorated with the commemorative plaques used, especially in the locations of the Russian troops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u290	Thank you very much, Senator. And now Senator Antoni Szymanski will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u291	Mr. Marshal, I would like to make a statement on behalf of Rafał Ślusarz, Jan Maria Jackowski and my own. It refers to the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the activity in Poland of the International Human Life International Friends' Club. We hereby express our appreciation for the achievements of this organization in the pro-family and pro-life fields of social education. It is worth recalling some activities of Human Life International in Poland. Firstly, the organization trained many thousands of pro life leaders from Poland and countries belonging to the former Soviet Union. Secondly, she has produced and released millions of educational material on the defence of life in the form of leaflets, brochures, newspapers, books, films and music materials in many languages of the region. Thirdly, she passed on thousands of models of the conceived child, so-called. small Jasio, and large sets of ascendants for Polish schools and for Polish schools in the East. Fourthly, she has developed many professional scientific analyses, including for parliamentary committees. Fifthly, it supports the preparation of teachers and develops numerous educational materials for learning the subject: upbringing to family life. Sixthly, she organized 11 major international conventions on the subject of.Love, life, family, Gdynia, Moscow, Kiev, 2 times in Warsaw and 3 times in Gdańsk, and the 7th World Family Congress in Warsaw. After seven, he runs the Human Life Friends Club, the widest possible positive platform for supporting life and family. After eight, he runs a point of in-kind assistance for mothers in the most difficult situations, passes out tripods for newborns and packages for children, organizes Santa Claus, feces of Children's Day and Festivals. He runs websites, publishes a newspaper, publishes news and is present on social media such as Facebook, Twitter and others. I encourage you to familiarize yourself with the website. hli. org.pl. He co-organizes marches for life, central and local. Leads the discussion circles of the Friends of Human Life Club This is a training system for young people. Coordinates the peregrination of the Częstochowa icon by the world in defence of life.From the ocean to the ocean started in Vladivostok. This is a peregrination by many countries to Fatima and by North and South America. It continues and is a great promotion of Poland in the international dimension. We would like to thank all Human Life International activists of the Human Life Friends Club for their efforts to promote and support human life from conception to natural death and to promote the basic communities of marriage and family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-26-senat-66-3.u292	Thank you, Senator. Are there any messages? There isn't. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Sixty-sixth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. Thank you. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 28]]
