ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u1	The Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term opens the 50th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[The Vice-Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane) ((Applause]] I will appoint Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the secretaries of the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Thank you very much. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points one, two, three, four, five and eight of the draft agenda be examined, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State of the Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory and consider it as the first item of the agenda; the Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wacława Felczaka and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Objection, there's an objection...]] [[Voice free.]] [[Senator Grodzki.]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Is there an objection, Senator? [[No, no objection, just a proposal to complete the order.]] Oh, we'll get to that in a minute. [[Thank you.]] Dear Senators, I propose a joint examination of the points from the first to the fifth, i.e. the laws on the right of traders, and the combined examination of the seventh and eighth paragraphs, i.e. laws concerning the Marshal's Guard... Shouldn't it be two to six? Yeah, I'm sorry. I propose a joint examination of the scenario I have an error in the script Point two to six, i.e. the laws on the right of traders, and the combined examination of the seventh and eighth paragraphs, i.e. laws concerning the Marshal's Guard. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. High Senate, I inform you that Senator Tomasz Grodzki on 31 January 2018 in accordance with Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, he requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: information from the Minister of Justice on a prolonged investigation against Kraków cardiologists accused of deliberately manslaughter of Jerzy Ziobra's death. The Senate Marshal did not take into account the proposed proposal, as this case is still pending and should therefore not be the subject of the Senate's deliberations at this stage. Does the applicant still maintain his application? Yes, Senator? [[Yes.]] You're maintaining your motion, aren't you? [[And I would like to justify, Mrs. Marshal.]] It's only a short time, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to maintain my conclusion in full, even though this case is still going on. I would like to remind you that, in the previous term, requests have been made on several occasions for the Smolensk investigation, which also took place. But to be clear, I'm going to say this is an exordinary matter. In Poland there are many investigations into errors, blamed or not blamed, in medical art. None of these proceedings are conducted in this way. When, for unknown reasons, a private accusation is turned into a public one, when it turns out that legal costs can be quite high and the family wants to escape it, the act does not change... the charge of involuntary manslaughter does not change to the charge of intentional manslaughter, which is de facto the charge of murder. You don't interrogate, like in this case, God's spirit of guilty nurses and cleaners from this workshop five times in a dozen years, and you don't make a hell of a whole team's life that did everything to prevent this tragic situation, of course, and that still saves lives. That is why the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team has addressed this issue. We listened to the staff of this team from the clinic and after this hearing we came to the conclusion that this case bears the mark of an emergency case, for reasons that are not fully understandable, which are slipping out of the framework of the Polish legal system, well, I do not want to say that it bears the mark of personal revenge. That's why we thought the High Senate should take care of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed to the... Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u4	I'm filing the counterclaim. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u5	We'll proceed to the... Quiet, please. [[They're laughing, and they don't know what they're laughing at.]] We proceed with the vote on the sustained... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, Senators, please. Gentlemen of the Senators. We proceed with the vote on Senator Tomasz Grodzki's motion to supplement the agenda with a point: information from the Minister of Justice on the prolonged investigation of Krakow's cardiologists accused of deliberately manslaughter of Jerzy Ziobra's death. Who among you is in favour of Senator Tomasz Grodzki's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted, 23 votes against, 53 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that Senator Tomasz Grodzki's request was rejected. High Senate, I state that... [[No, no.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Any of you... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As an outrageous situation happened today, Władysław Frasyniuk was arrested... [[Why scandalous, Mr. Marshal?]] ...hero... [[What?]] ...a hero of martial law, repeatedly arrested... [[So?]] ...in martial law, beaten... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...battled, staggered and driven many times... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]] Given that today has come to this scandalous situation that aggravates... [[Mr. Marshal!]] ...also the situation in Poland and apparently aggravates... [[Mr. Marshal, how do you speak? Because we're discussing...]] [[Applause]] On completion of the agenda. Therefore, I apply to complete the current order... [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]] ...to inform the Minister of Justice about Władysław Frasyniuk's arrest today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u7	Mr. Marshal... Mr. Marshal... [[He's already been released home.]] Please, Mr. Senator, can I help you? [[It wasn't necessary...]] And Mr. Marshal... Mr. Senator, excuse me, in what mode? [[There's a motion, and I have to say something about it, because I want to make the opposite...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: No mode! No mode!]] Mr. Senator, please take your place. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, how did Senator Borusewicz speak?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you want to file a counterclaim? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u8	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The person you were talking about, Mr. Marshal, was outrageous, was called to the D.A.'s office on several occasions or to the police and didn't show up. The fact that she was stopped like this, not another... Well, it should just be in the state of law. It should just be in the state of law. And the people... [[Voice from the room: Sure!]] Wait a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I was... [[Okay, thank you very much...]] Mrs. Marshal, I'd like another minute, I'm very sorry, but... I was also in Solidarity from the beginning, performing various functions. However, some of the people of Solidarity, these former activists, have usurped the right to everything, to rule and to the law, and to certain institutions in our country. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Good. Mr. Senator...]] They're just acting outrageous. Mr. Frasyniuk's behavior is outrageous. Speech, manner of behavior, demonstration... [[Mr. Senator...]] It just can't be in the state of law. And you, Mr. Marshal, should be ashamed and draw his attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u9	Mr. Senator explained... [[Shame on you. Your behavior in the courtroom is outrageous.]] [[Applause]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made to complete the agenda, a request by Marshal Borusewicz. Who's in favor of your Marshal's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 24 for, 58 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] I therefore conclude that Mr Borusewicz's request was not accepted. I state that the High Senate approved the agenda of the fifty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that today at 11.00 a speech will be given by the President of the French Senate Gérard Larcher. A 10-minute break will therefore be ordered at 10.50 p.m. In the event of a faster consideration of the item on the first agenda, the interruption shall be ordered in advance. For organisational reasons, I would ask that all senators take their seats in the sitting room before the session resumes until 10.55. Tomorrow's session will begin at 9 a.m. Then at 5 p.m. a break will be ordered by 8 p.m. During the break at 6:00 p.m., the screening of the movie Senator will take place in room 217. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the rules of residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through that territory. The text of the Act is contained in print No 727 and the report of the Commission In print No 727 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft amendment of the Act on the residence rules of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 8 February 2018 with the support of 428 Members. The amendment complements the legislation with the necessary provision, allowing international personnel to be equipped with weapons on the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The amendment of the law will allow a systematic solution to the problem now and in the future. Amendment to the Act, consisting of the addition of an article. 13a, states that at the request of the competent military authorities of the party sending foreign troops may be equipped with weapons and ammunition constituting the armed forces of the Republic of Poland. During the work of the Parliament, the regulations governing the mode and legal form of arms equipment for foreign soldiers were added through delegations to the decision of the Minister of National Defence and to other provisions governing the rules of arms equipment. At the meeting of the Defence Commission on 13 February 2018, the senators, after hearing the presentation of the Act and, in the absence of objections, unanimously recommended that the High Senate adopt a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u11	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u12	Having no objection to the main idea of this law, I note, however, that any one of us present here can freeze the use in the name of this law of foreign military expression. It's about historical connotations. The war aliens were always the ones that, contrary to our wishes not to say worse, invaded our country. As I can see, the name has been preserved. My question is, shouldn't it be an ally's military name or another name that matches the idea of these troops staying? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u13	Quiet, please. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. There's only one thing. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u14	Mr. Senator, this is the bill of 23 September 1999. This name has been used in the Act and it has been amended several times, including by us, by the Senate in this term of office. This name still works and it's like a dictionary name. There is a dictionary attached to the bill that defines the presence of allies in our territory.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u15	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, is with us today. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mrs Marshal, Senator Silesian has comprehensively presented the bill as part of the committee's report. This is a very uniform, short text. If there are any questions from the senators, I am at your disposal, but everything has been said.]] Good. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Marshal Borusewicz has a question for the Minister. Yes? [[Yes. I have a question for the Minister.]] I'd like to invite the Minister to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u16	Minister, I'd like to repeat Senator Rulewski's question. Don't you think that in this law, the term "military aliens" should be converted into "military allies"? Is the Ministry thinking about changing the bill on this issue? We can't do this for regulatory reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u17	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u18	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As Senator Silencer rightly said, this is a law from 1999, which in its name, in its contents, as well as in its conceptual vocabulary refers directly to... There is a concept here such as a military alien. Every army that is outside the forces of the Republic of Poland is treated as a foreign army, regardless of whether it is an ally army operating within the North Atlantic Alliance or other military configurations. There is, for example. such a Polish-Lithuanian-Ukrainian brigade. We treat them as foreign troops. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u19	Yes, please, Mr. Marshal. There's something you want to ask me. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u20	Yes. Minister, you said that this concept was introduced in 1990... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: In 1999]] In 1999 the Council But the government has the right to change the laws. And I repeat my question. Don't you think this concept should be converted into more precise? Because that concept isn't precise. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: May I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u21	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u22	Whether I like it or not, it's like a secondary thing. This is the wording adopted among the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance. It is not that we are in this legislation and naming separated from the wider military context. It's something that operates in the North Atlantic Alliance countries, and it's nothing unusual, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u24	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. What is the circle of people potentially affected by this law? What kind of government is that? How many representatives of allies or aliens will be able to benefit from the provisions of the Act? Thank you. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal? I have a similar question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u25	Then please, Senator Robert Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u26	And I would like you, Minister, to make it clear what kind of weapon this is about, and what you asked Senator Jackowski about, what is the circle of these people?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u27	I'll be right with you. I'll remind you because I'm sure you know that. That we're in the process of forming the Northern East Multinational Command. This command is now at 90%. When it comes to completion. We're hoping there'll be about 300 soldiers in command. Now we estimate, based on the interest of our allies, that 10% the personal status of the command will be created by the soldiers of our coalitioners. So now, taking into account the documents that come to us, this applies to 30 people, 30 officers. Important issue: this bill will not generate any additional costs. We will not buy additional weapons for these soldiers, for these officers, they will use weapons, weapons which are equipped with the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. To answer Senator Mammoth's question, I must explain that this will not be any unusual weaponry, except perhaps a short gun. And that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u28	You're still Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u29	Thank you very much. Could the Minister clarify that? As I understand it, it's a personal short weapon in this case. However, in various armies different weapons are used and staff may not be trained in the field of weapons units which will be acquired by the Polish Armed Forces. Is there a regulation that will define forms, I do not know, some short training, or does the applicant assume that a person who has the right powers in his country will be able to use the weapon offered by the Polish side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u30	It is obvious that this will take place on the basis of the rules that are in force and functioning in the Polish army, in the Polish army. I will repeat once again: it will be a weapon, a weapon derived only from the resources of the Polish army; it will be transferred in an appropriate manner, in accordance with the regulations, and similarly will be deposited. When it comes to exercises, about this shooting exercise, it will take place in the same way as in the Polish army. It's nothing unusual, nothing more than what is required by a Polish soldier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u31	Please, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u32	Minister, you said it would be a small group, which is why I have to ask a question. At the moment, around 2.5 thousand U.S. soldiers are stationed in Poland, but also under the NATO contingent there are soldiers from various other allied countries. Am I to understand that this bill will not apply to them? But will it affect them?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u33	Mr. Marshal, this law applies to those who come, for example. to form a multi-national division command in Elbląg without its weapons, without its own personal weapons. And if we're talking about the presence of the U.S. military, let me remind you that the U.S. military Like other allied forces that participate, they are stationed in Poland in the framework of strengthening the eastern NATO flank or the so-called. rotational presence, e.g. U.S. military brigades are coming with their weapons. And they don't use Polish weapons when it comes to our presence, exercises, etc. This is a completely autonomous decision of the American Army Command. They're coming with all the equipment. [[I'd like to ask you another question, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Please?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u35	I'd like to ask. Do I understand that if the leadership of this group wants to rent a Polish gun for exercise or for some other purpose... This bill prevents them from doing so. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mr. Marshal...]] Or maybe it does? That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u36	Mr. Marshal, things can be different. If they arrive in the territory of the Republic of Poland certain groups, e.g. Battle groups... They come and train. Practically every day, our allies are present on Polish fields, who practice and train there permanently. Right? They're coming with their weapons. But there are emergency situations, such as the formation of divisions. Then it is written in the law At the request of the competent military authorities of the party sending a foreign soldier, such soldiers may be equipped with weapons and ammunition constituting the weapons of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. [[Thank you, Minister. That's what I'm talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u37	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Bogdan Klich to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This bill is worthy of support. I firmly believe that the fulfilment of every deficit in terms of allied and partner residence Both NATO and the European Union are justified in supporting the security of our country. If there is a need, and it sometimes happens, the amendment of this law, which was adopted when we entered the North Atlantic Alliance, is once again to repeat Fully justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u39	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I'll be in charge of your recess by 11 a.m. I would like to remind you that the French Senate President Gérard Larcher will speak after the break. I therefore ask that you take your seats in the sitting room until 10.55 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 27 to 11 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u40	I'm reopening the session. High Senate, I would like to welcome the President of the Senate of France, Mr Gérard Larcher, who makes an official visit to Poland at my invitation. We would like to welcome the President very warmly. [[Applause]] The President is accompanied by Mr Jean-Pierre Leleux, President of the French-Poland Friendship Group in the French Senate; [[Applause]] ...Mr Jean Bizet, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs in the Senate of France; [[Applause]] ...Mrs Maryvonne Blondin, Vice-President of the French-Poland Friendship Group. [[Applause]] I also warmly welcome Mr Pierre Lévy, Ambassador of the French Republic in Poland. Thank you very much for the invitation and for the presence of the members of the Sejm Bureau. I very much welcome Marshal Marek Kuchciński. [[Applause]] Hello to Mrs. Beata Mazurek, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause]] And welcome, Mr. Richard Terletki, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause]] Mr. Chairman, you're welcome. I ask the President of the French Senate, Mr Gérard Larcher, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u41	Mr. Marshal of the Senate! Mr. Marshal of the Seym! Ladies and gentlemen Vice-Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate! Dear fellow Senators, Parliamentarians! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor for me to speak on behalf of the Senate of the French Republic before you. The representatives of the Polish people. I would like to thank Stanisław Karczewski, Marshal of the Senate, and the Senate of the Republic of Poland for their invitation, for their excellent reception and for the ideal organisation of this visit, thanks to which I can meet the most important figures of political life in Poland. Senators accompanying me during this visit: President of the Senate Committee on European Affairs Jean Bizet, President of the French-Polish Friendship Group Jean-Pierre Leleux and Vice-President of this friendship group, Maryvonne Blondin. I also welcome your ambassador, who is a permanent representative of our country here in Warsaw. As you know, dear colleagues, France and Poland have a long and deep friendship that has been forged in the brotherhood of weapons. This year we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, as well as regaining independence by Poland after 123 years of occupation. Therefore, I would like to pay tribute to the Polish nation and its steadfast struggle, the struggle for independence, identity and sovereignty. I am a gaullist, so I can say that for me these three words, independence, identity and supremacy are of particular importance. [[Applause]] I do not forget the sacrifice of many thousands of Polish soldiers made during World War I and II, those who fell in a heroic fight on French soil and on all battlefields, from Narwik to Monte Cassino, each time standing on the side of freedom. [[Applause]] This morning we honored their memory before the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. It's a living memory of yesterday's sacrifices, giving us freedom today and for the future. I know how much Poland suffered from collusion between the two murderous totalitarianisms of the 20th century, Nazism on the one hand and communism on the other. Your country was quartered, the elite were tortured, the people were starved The two regimes did so. And when in the spring of 1940. Stalin ordered the murder of Polish officers in the Katyn forest and elsewhere, the Nazis acted similarly, carrying out executions here, nearby, in the Kampinos Forest, in the suburbs of Warsaw. We know how unbelievably cruel the German occupation was for your nation. The suffering of Poland cannot be compared with the history of any other country. As a result, we have a duty to Poland and Poles. [[Applause]] Let us not forget, Dear Colleagues and Colleagues, that in September 1944, after calling for the uprising here in Warsaw, the Red Army waited with abandoned weapons on the other side of the Vistula River, allowing German forces to turn the entire city into a ruin, despite the heroism and courage of the soldiers of the National Army and all the inhabitants of the capital. But it was the Polish people who gave up the most fearless ones to whom our continent, Europe, owes its freedom. I cannot call them all here, so, paying tribute, I will only say about Polish engineers who first broke the Enigma German ciphers used to convey strategic information. [[Applause]] Thus they made an unprecedented contribution to the war effort, to the fight against Nazism. I would also like to pay tribute to Polish pilots who took part in the battle for England, as well as many fighting Poles who worked in the French resistance movement, members of the Polish-French intelligence network F2 and soldiers 1. The Armored Division who have fallen, liberating my country and my family's region, Normandy. This was the case in the Battle of Mont-Ormel Hill when Polish soldiers managed to shut down the Falaise-Chambois boiler. This morning, when I was laying flowers on the grave of the Unknown Soldier, I saw the inscription "Chambois." It is a village very close to my home, to which as a child I went with class to lay flowers. And I must confess that I felt a real and full symbiosis with the sacrifice of those Poles who died for France and for her freedom. [[Applause]] I also remember the genocide committed on the Polish Jewish community, one of the most numerous in Europe, which took place in Nazi extermination camps. I also remember about the heroic uprising in the Warsaw ghetto in 1943. I wanted to pay tribute to the heroes of this event during my visit. The memory of this unprecedented crime of genocide should be strictly preserved It's a conscience and a memory focused on the challenges of today's world. And this is one of you, Jan Karski, a man of extraordinary fate, who was the first to sound the alarm, informing the world of this crime. However, it was not heard, unfortunately for the world. Nor is it a coincidence that it is the Poles who are the most numerous group among the Righteous among the World Nations that are exactly 6,000 352. Their names are written at the Yad Vashem Memorial Institute, and their memory contains a message. Nor do I forget the unparalleled fight of the Polish people against the communist dictatorship or the key role played by Pope John Paul II and the trade union of the Solidarity Union in overthrowing the Iron Curtain. [[Applause]] It is the strength of their beliefs and of their spirit that we owe victory over communism. Poles, confronted with deadly ideology for 50 years, have never, ever given up. They've never, ever made a pact. And they never, ever gave up. They remained faithful to their attachment to the freedom, independence and sovereignty of their country. [[Applause]] Today, relations between our countries are intense in policy, economy, culture, language or parliamentary cooperation. There are more than 1,300 French companies in Poland, employ nearly 250 thousand Poles, 280 thousand Polish students learn French and Poland is a member of the International Francophony Organization. Yesterday I met with representatives of French companies and found Which doesn't happen very often during my travels. That with optimism and hope they think about the future of Poland. I believe that our cooperation in many areas, such as research, including nuclear, artificial intelligence, areas of language and culture, military and weaponry, could be further developed. After regaining independence in 1989, entering NATO in 1999 and joining the European Union in 2004, Poland was once again in its place. At the heart of Europe. I will repeat this extension after Czesław Miłosz Another Europe, or about the kidnapped West, as Milan Kunder put it, was a historic necessity. This made it possible to reunite the continent and return to a real Europe. Europe cannot be a Europe without Poland, just as Europe cannot be imagined without France or Germany. Poland can only be an important player and player in Europe. That's what I wanted to tell you today, among other things. [[Applause]] Europe must not be the sum of concentric circles. For me, there is only one Europe! And there are no different categories of Member States. [[Applause]] Of course, Mr Marshal, France and Poland are strategic partners within the European Union, together with Germany. Despite the crises and these crises there were many The European Union has always been able to bounce back. Today, when the United Kingdom has decided to leave the European Union, it should be a priority that we have just discussed, Mr Marshal, to bring Europe closer to its citizens. Europe needs to react and it needs to get momentum back on track. This new dynamic should, in my opinion, focus on concrete initiatives. I believe that our fellow citizens want a Europe that protects them. In a geopolitical context that has become more uncertain and unpredictable, we need to make further progress in the field of foreign and defence policy in order to strengthen Europe's strategic autonomy. Given the uncertainty about our American ally That still remains our ally and friend, for we will never forget what we owe to the Americans, especially me, as a representative of my native land of Normandy. In view of the questions raised by Russia's re-arming, Europeans should take their fate more into their own hands and develop a foreign policy which will be more common and based on European defence, autonomous and credible, complementing NATO, and France and Poland should play a leading role in defence issues. In the event of a terrorist threat and the problem of crime, it is also necessary to develop police and judicial cooperation. Because how can you explain it? The fact that the European Union needed more than five years to adopt the European PNR system, this famous passenger data register? At a time when several European countries, including France, have suffered from deadly terrorist attacks, such delays have very serious consequences for the security of our countries and for the perception of the European Union by the public. The agency in Warsaw, Frontex, which we visited yesterday late in the afternoon, gives me a picture of what progress has been made in the area of control of our external borders, which is essential. In the face of the unprecedented 2015 migration crisis, the European Union initially acted in a situation of sudden need and in a dispersed way, without real overall coordination. But she should be making further progress today. It's from the answer. . joint or non-joint This wave of unprecedented immigration that we have faced depends on an important part of the credibility of the whole European project. More firmness in control, more solidarity between the European countries, and I am in favour of this. I have some doubts about the concept of mandatory quotas for refugees, but I believe that we must not allow all the burden to rest solely on those countries which, by way of fate, because of their geographical location, constitute the gateway to Europe. We should help them too. Despite the launch in June 2016 of a new partnership framework with 5 African countries, much remains to be done in relation to the countries from which migrants come and with the transit countries. There must be a need to define more closely the conditions for development aid and respect for commitments to control migration flows. But let us not be deluded, because only political solutions will make it possible to prevent and manage these flows more effectively. According to the OECD Secretary-General, there are currently 70 million migrants in Africa. You know about my country's involvement in Sahel, about military and humanitarian engagement, but these are also preventive measures against migration flows. Therefore, at the end of next week, I am going to Chad and Niger, to our armed forces and to our office for the protection of refugees and stateless persons. OFPRA. But we need the help of all our European partners to this extent. A Europe that protects is also a Europe that can maintain and defend its interests in the area of trade, without hesitation requiring its main partners I'm thinking of China, and I'm thinking of respecting the principle of reciprocity. The current silk trail cannot be containers full of goods, transported from China to Europe, and filled with only wooden chips when the road leads from Europe to China. The principle of reciprocity that we should adopt should also apply here. Fiscal and social convergence is another priority. As a gaullist on social issues and as a former Minister of Labour, I am very attached to both the idea of sovereignty and social rights. It is not about harmonising social protection systems at European level. It is about guaranteeing a minimum basis for social rights in Europe. I know about your reservations and the concerns of the Polish Government regarding the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. I would like to make it clear on this point: reducing the use of posting of workers and applying protectionism is not a solution. I myself opposed, also within my own political party, the idea of imposing the so-called. a clause of Molière, which would oblige construction workers to speak only and only in French. It is important for me to maintain freedom, freedom of movement for workers, but this also requires stronger controls to combat fraud, because posted workers are the first victims of fraud and fraud. Faced with the energy dependency of the European Union, especially Russia It is not just a purely technical dependence, it is also a political dependence, the creation of a single energy Europe is the best guarantee of our independence. [[Applause]] It is also the best way to ensure the future for the next generation, including through the implementation of the Paris climate agreement At the end of the year, you will host COP24 conference in Poland and it will be an important moment for all of us. Maintaining an ambitious cohesion policy and an ambitious common agricultural policy is also a priority for our safety and food sovereignty, while at the same time it is crucial for maintaining the balance of our territories. It is a highly strategic policy and at the threshold of negotiations on the future financial framework of the European Union that Poland and France have many common interests, including agriculture and the agri-food industry, should work closely together to counter any drastic reduction in resources for the common agricultural policy. [[Applause]] We should support all initiatives aimed at strengthening the awareness of our values and our common cultural heritage in Europe. Because Europe is also about sharing common values, such as democracy, respect for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. These are the values with which Poland has always been in the vanguard. [[Applause]] Today, my friends are talking about everything, so I will mention that I hear some concerns expressed in Poland and in Europe about the reform of the justice system. I don't want to interfere with your country's internal affairs. I believe in the ability of the Polish authorities to find a solution through close dialogue between the majority and the opposition, between the Polish government and the European Commission. We talked about this with the Prime Minister less than an hour ago. [[Applause]] Let me also raise here the issue that raised polemics. The issue of the recently adopted National Remembrance Institute Act and the issue of extermination camps. Also, I do not want to teach any lessons, I just want to share a certain reflection of the old legislature, who had had the opportunity in the past in the French Parliament to examine several laws concerning historical memory. In my opinion, this is my private opinion, but I know that it is shared by many other parliamentarians, and the legislative work ends where the historian's work begins. A historian must have full freedom in order to be able to witness again and again. As the President of the French Republic, Jacques Chirac, pointed out when commemorating the great manhunt on French Jews and from other countries in Paris in 1942. I can also tell you, looking directly into my eyes, that I have no doubt, like Sigmar Gabriel, about who is responsible for the extermination camps, who led them to murder millions of European Jews, I know that they were Nazis. Dear colleagues! France, Germany and Poland have a great deal of responsibility within the European Union. Because of our history, geography, demographic and economic strength, as well as in diplomatic and military matters, our countries are called upon to move forward and make proposals, of course, along with our European partners. Now that the United Kingdom has decided to leave the European Union, it seems to me a fundamental issue to preserve the unity of 27 countries and to prevent new walls from emerging in Europe due to a lack of understanding and new divisions between the East and the West, the North and the South. It was Pope John Paul II who said: "Europe must breathe both with the lungs of the east and the west. And since 1990, we have been keeping an eye on this balance. The Weimar Triangle, created in 1991, represents a special plane of agreement between France, Germany and Poland. Together with the Senate Marshal of the Republic of Poland and the then President of the Bundesrat Stanislaw Tillich, we adopted in October 2016 in Bern on the occasion of the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the creation of the Weimar Triangle a joint declaration: against the numerous challenges that the European Union must face today, we are convinced that this spirit of Weimar will make us go further together. I also firmly believe that our national parliaments, representing the nations, have a key role to play in bringing Europe closer to citizens and making its actions more effective, more legitimacy and better understood. This is also what I talked about in Bratislava in 2016. I am thinking, in particular, of strengthening our role as guardians of the principle of subsidiarity, so that the European Union's actions focus on the most important issues in which the Union can bring real added value. On 11 September 1977 in Warsaw, General de Gaulle said the following words: "We, Poles and French, we are so similar to each other about economics, culture and science, and this also applies to politics. Over the centuries, our nations have never fought against each other. The success or misfortune of one nation has always been linked to the success or misfortune of another. Long live Poland, long live France and long live the French-Polish friendship! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u42	Thank you very much to the President of the French Senate, Mr Gérard Larcher, for his speech. And adjourn until 12:00. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 31 to 12 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u43	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the joint examination of points 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th agenda: the Law of Entrepreneurs; the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs; the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for Entrepreneur; the Act on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Entrepreneurs and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland; the Law on the Law introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other Acts on Business Activity. The texts of the laws are contained in prints Nos 715, 716, 717, 718, 719, and the Commission's reports In print Nos 715 A, 716 A, 717 A, 718 A and 719 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present the committee's reports on the laws under consideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was held for the purpose of examining the Act of Business Law 715; the Act on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Enterprises 716; the Act on Central Registration and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for Entrepreneur 717; the Act on the Rules for Participation of Foreign and Other Foreign Trade in Economic Trade in the Territory. The Republic of Poland Senator's printing No 718; Laws introducing the Law of Entrepreneur's Law and other laws relating to business activity. Senator's printing No 719. What is the purpose of these laws? One at a time. If you don't mind, I'll have a brief discussion of each of them. The Law of Entrepreneurs regulates the general principles of taking up, performing and leaving business in Poland in a holistic manner. The essence of the solutions adopted is to create favourable, transparent and stable conditions for doing business, in particular by strengthening the guarantees of freedom and the rights of entrepreneurs. This is intended to reduce the business risk and increase the willingness to take up and pursue business activities, including the willingness to bear the technological risk associated with the implementation of innovative projects. The Act establishes a catalogue of the rights and obligations of entrepreneurs and the responsibilities of the bodies to provide interpretation guidance for the authorities applying the law in relation to the entrepreneur, i.e. the administration. the principles of proportionality, impartiality and equal treatment, and this relationship is re-defined. An institution of undocumented activities is being introduced, activities on a smaller scale; I will discuss this in the course of the discussion. A start-up relief is introduced, i.e. a beginner entrepreneur will be exempted from the obligation to pay social security contributions for the first 6 months, and after that period he will be able to benefit from the so-called "newcomer" for the next 24 months. Little ZUS. The obligation for entrepreneurs to use the REGON number is abolished and the NIP is sufficient. Institutions of consent and licences shall be abolished as separate forms of regulation of economic activity. The basic principles for drawing up draft normative acts in the field of economic law and assessing their functioning shall be laid down. An institution of legal explanations is introduced, i.e. issued by the administrative authorities in respect of their own jurisdiction or at the request of the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, clarification of the rules. An institution of established interpretation practice shall be introduced. The Entrepreneur's Information Point, run by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, is set up to enable, in particular, the handling of matters relating to the taking up, pursuit and termination of business activities. The institution of suspension of business activity will be made more flexible, for example. unlimited suspension of activities or suspension for the period indicated in the application. The next law, the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, sets up an institution to support and monitor the implementation of these laws, i.e. the business constitution. In particular, the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises will work towards implementing the principles of freedom of business, enhancing the confidence of entrepreneurs in public authority, impartiality and equal treatment, sustainable development and the principle of fair competition and respect for good practices and the legitimate interests of entrepreneurs. The next Act on Central Registration and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur sets out the rules for their operation. In accordance with the Act, the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity records entrepreneurs who are natural persons, makes available information about entrepreneurs and other entities, the extent and date of changes in entries and the established proxy or proxy, allows access to data made available by the Central Information National Court Register. The Entrepreneur's Information Point shall perform the tasks of a single contact point within the meaning of Article. 6 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 The next law, on the rules of participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland, is a comprehensive regulation of the rules of participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland. So far, the issue covered by the law has been governed by the Law on freedom of business and by the Law on the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Poland. And the last law, the law of the law of the company introducing the law of the company and other laws concerning business activity. She introduces these laws and determines when they are to enter into force. Almost all laws enter into force 30 days after the signing. Minister Haladyj discussed all these laws that I presented to you, stated that the work on the bill lasted for a year and a half, and that there was a comprehensive consultation of the social side and other ministries. The basis for these laws is among others. the fact that the 2004 Act has already been amended 100 times. That's why it's time to put all this together in these very laws. In general, the Minister stated that these laws in principle introduce a law according to which what is not prohibited is permitted in economic activity. The Minister also discussed non-registered activities, i.e. the possibility of making money up to 50% the minimum rate, which currently amounts to probably PLN 2 000 100. So $1,000 50 PLN can be earned on the basis of an oral agreement without paying contributions to the Social Security Office. But this will have to be included in the annual tax return and will be subject to normal taxation. Nevertheless, because of the simplicity of the form, it will be possible to move out of the grey zone. The Minister also provided information that the number of checks in enterprises had fallen. In 2016, there were 80,000 of them, and in 3 quarters of 2017 there were 45 000 of them. There was, of course, a discussion in which Senator Augustine spoke. He questioned whether it was definitely a simplification of the law, since we have so many legal acts, and he said that he didn't quite believe... he said that it wouldn't reduce the gray area, but that the other way around could be to escape into the gray zone. But he also welcomed the harmonisation of the records, but said that he did not see deregulation here; he saw no progress in deregulation. He gave various examples of how this law is to work when it comes to information from the competent administrative authorities, when an entrepreneur violates the well-being of a neighbour or other citizens. He also asked why there is only a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, not all entrepreneurs, and what will be an indication of income in relation to this possibility of deregulation. He's gotten answers to all the questions from the Minister. Then Senator Klein spoke, who asked first of all what the possibility of making money was supposed to be about unregistered income. There was quite a long discussion about what this unregistered income means. As a general rule, I'm talking about it because it aroused the greatest interest of all, this income unregistered is the income for people who have health insurance, i.e. work and want to earn extra money for different reasons, earn a job, but only 50% the minimum income, which is in a given year, i.e. one thousand and fifty zlotys per month, is approximately 12 thousand per year. Then he does not record it and does not report it as an activity, he reports only to the tax office the final settlement in PIT as an unregistered income, which is added to his income. It goes on for example. about tutoring or some occasional cleaning or some online sales, but limited in income per month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u45	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Komarnicki volunteered, Senator Augustine... [[Senator Tight...]] Oh, okay, I can see that. Senator Komarnicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question for you. Do you ask questions about all these 5 laws, or one at a time? How's it gonna be more comfortable? [[I think the debate is united and you can...]] And it's okay to ask together? [[Yeah, you can ask questions about everyone...]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Or the individual... it's up to you.]] I, in order not to bother the Senator rapporteur too much, will come forward more often and share these questions. My first question... First of all, I'd like to share... And at the end, there'll be a question. Until now, in the Law on Business Freedom, the concession area has been regulated enumeratively. Now the proposal is to eliminate this and write down only in general that there are concession areas and to move this issue to specific laws. I think it's giving birth, ladies and gentlemen, to a great risk of discretion in specific laws. Why are there such records, Senator rapporteur? Second question. You have changed the name of the entire chapter 5, from the business control to the business control, but, to be honest, Mr. Senator, this has changed absolutely nothing. This is precisely prescribed from the previous law. As regards both the place of inspection, the rules for carrying out the checks, the maximum duration of the checks and the notice of initiation of the procedure are exactly the same. I don't think you need such a sham record. And lastly: why instead of one big and compact law that we are discussing today, we have the so-called. A constitution broken down into five laws? To be honest, I have doubts that this will not cause legal chaos. That's all, Mr. Senator, about business law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u47	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have such a request to the senators present at the committee meeting that questions concerning such matters which were not discussed at the committee meeting should be addressed to the Minister. It's a request, Senator Komarnicki. [[All right, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u49	So you're Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u50	Mr President, of course I have questions for the Minister, which I have not asked before, but I have a little procedural question for you, too. Namely, were there representatives of corporations gathering entrepreneurs at yesterday's session of our committee? There was no call for them to speak, there were no reports, and I have no idea if they were invited at all. And if they were, who came? And then there's the other thing. 'Cause I didn't see it in the materials either. Did these corporations provide their views in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u51	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, he was a representative of the Jagiellonian Club and spoke and perhaps a representative of the Conference of Financial Enterprises and also spoke. We have the opinion of the Conference of Financial Enterprises, a local government organisation representing more than 100 key companies from several sectors of the Polish financial services market, and its representative took the floor. [[Excuse me, I want to ask you a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u53	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u54	But were the representatives of these leading corporations, bringing together entrepreneurs of all industries, invited and asked for an opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u55	I have a specific question, too. Has the KIG been invited and received any opinion, or were they invited to Leviathan, BCC and this association, the president of which is Mr Malinowski? Have such opinions been received? Were they invited and not come, or were they not invited?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's just that at all the meetings of the economic committee... We announce on the website when there is a committee meeting and if the entrepreneur is following it, it simply reports its arrival. And since it's a government arrangement, I imagine it's all been consulted so far. That's why we only have... I received only 3 opinions: the Jagiellonian Club, the Conference of Financial Enterprises and the Association of Labour Inspectors. [[So I understand you don't know if there's any...]] We're specially sorry, Mr. Marshal. We don't send invitations. [[I understand. But the other opinions didn't come in? Yes?]] No, we don't have any others. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u57	And if it's on the government level, that's what we're gonna be asking the Minister. So that the Minister prepares for such a question. Thank you, Senator. Now Senator Florek is asking questions. [[I'm still...]] [[You're saved.]] [[Okay, thank you.]] You're in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm not a member of the committee, and you've already told me... I'm not on the committee. This is the new act on economic activity that I have in front of me. This chapter 5, which the senator has just mentioned, is entitled, as I see it, to limit the control of economic activities, is that chapter 5. Well, I'm a little surprised that the bill is new, and the title of the chapter is the word "limitation." I understand that the chapter concerns business control. Of course there can be limitations, we can discuss what is a limitation, well, that's the title of this chapter. So I would like to ask if you discussed at the committee meeting, on which these limitations, since there is such a provision, control of economic activity, compared to what has been done so far, are to rely. Because we know that 7 days earlier, that up to 30 days, etc., etc. What are these limitations, according to this chapter, if this is a new law, to rely on? That's the first question. And the other. You mentioned this non-registered activity. I was wondering at the moment: if I was doing business and came to the conclusion that Well, I've had that ZUS release for two years. I can't handle it, so I'd like to move on to this kind of activity. It's economical, it's just... Well, I figure I might make some extra money, but it's not gonna be a lot of money. Can I therefore terminate my business and benefit from this provision on non-registered activities up to this specified amount? Is that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u59	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u60	Thank you very much. This problem was raised by Senator Kleina and the Minister's explanation is such that this non-registered activity cannot be a permanent activity. So if you're doing something all the time, only to a minimum, it could be unreliable competition in relation to minimum wage work. Well, in the case of minimum wage work, you have to work 8 hours a day, and in the case of non-registered activities you will earn 1050 PLN, and you will work for example. one or two days, so that, in relation to work for minimum wage, the contribution of work to this non-registration activity is very small. It was raised. I think the Minister will explain it better. As far as control restrictions are concerned, I'm going to say that this was raised, too. The inspection can be carried out in an undertaking without the presence of the owner, it is sufficient that there is an employee or official representative, so I do not remember it exactly. So that the inspection can be conducted, but the notification is within 3 working days... But in detail, as the chapter you're asking about, it wasn't discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u61	Senator Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u62	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, my question is the following. Speaking to entrepreneurs who were very interested in this law, I met with the opinion that you also said in your report that this is a collection of different laws and regulations from different legal acts in one piece of legislation. Of course, it is important that there is transparency of the rules, and I am not questioning it, but I think that entrepreneurs, especially when they talk so loudly about constitutional laws for business, are hoping for some groundbreaking solutions that will take off some of the burdens they carry on their backs. My question is this: could the senator point out three elements that are a change of status for the better, i.e. that it will be easier, easier and faster to conduct business after applying certain regulations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u63	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u64	Thank you very much. I think a pretty good explanation was what Minister Haladyj said at the committee meeting. That all laws must be based on the Polish Constitution and it is not so simple to introduce a very simple activity, because then part of this activity can be unconstitutional. I think that's a good explanation. You can't simplify the law that much, because it's going to violate the constitution. The Wilczek Act, which everyone refers to, was a general law and at that time, in that legal system possible to implement. I, too, am not thrilled that we at each Senate meeting are setting new laws and that the number of laws is increasing at such a rate that lawyers or lawyers are not able to get to know it at any time. So that I am in favour of deregulation, but I understood Minister Haladyja's reply that in this system, which is now, simplification is not possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u65	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u66	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the business law you discussed here. There is a point here that an institution of legal explanations is being introduced. And then it's explained. Did you discuss the difference between the legal explanation and the practice of individual business inquiries or groups of entrepreneurs about legal interpretation? How is it different to say that an institution of explanations is being introduced? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u67	Yes. The institution of legal clarification shall be issued by the administrative authorities with regard to its own jurisdiction or, at the request of the Ombudsman, of small and medium-sized enterprises, clarification of the rules governing the taking up, pursuit or termination of business activities concerning their practical application.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u68	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you... [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]] How is this different from the legal opinion that has so far been issued by the authorities? [[That's what I'm asking. You read what's here...]] [[Yeah, I read it.]] [[What's so revealing about all of a sudden moving in?]] How does that differ from the legal opinion that has so far... [[How is one different from the other? Maybe the Minister...]] [[Exactly. Maybe we should ask the Minister. The Minister consults, he's got lawyers next to him.]] Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u69	Senator rapporteur, I have a question. In the documents, there is a provision in the opinion on the bill. I would like to ask you whether there has been a discussion on this subject and what, in fact, the facilitations proposed by the government are supposed to be about. Namely, it is mentioned that there will be facilitations related to the carrying out of technological risk by entrepreneurs. As I understand it, those entrepreneurs who are going to do business, and eventually take some risk, will have some relief. What is it supposed to be? Was there a debate about this? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u70	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. That'll probably be the last one. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I don't think what you've read applies to this bill. We did, I don't remember exactly, I think six months ago... [[Exactly that...]] Okay. But this is about the Innovation Act we've been running. This was decided in the Innovation Act in favour of entrepreneurs. This is a tax deduction for expenditure on innovative technologies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u72	You're still Senator Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u73	Another question. Mr. Senator, was there a discussion about... Please tell me that some issues have not yet been settled. I am talking about the principle of proportionality, impartiality, partnership and friendly treatment. So far, haven't entrepreneurs in Poland been treated in this way, since in this material it is raised that these are some innovative, new solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u74	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u75	Thank you very much, Marshal. Maybe the legislator is paying more attention to the form of civil servants' work here. We live in the same country, Mr. Senator, and we know that at different administrative points the entrepreneur is received differently. I think this bill is supposed to make the administration more sensitive. Many points of the bill indicate that administrative staff are not only meant to be friendly with the entrepreneur, but also to assume that what the entrepreneur says is true. This is about trust in the entrepreneur. Now it's the administration's job to prove, so to speak, that the entrepreneur didn't complete something.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u76	One more question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u77	One last question, Mr. Senator, which, I think, correlates with what I just asked. This is the issue of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. I understand that the Ombudsman will also appear in the context of such matters as you have just mentioned, Senator. A specific question: how will it be fixed? Will it have assistance in the form of an office of spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises? Where will he be established in the structure of the state and who will pay for its functioning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u78	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u79	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, there's been a discussion about this. The senators pointed out that the Minister's appointment of the Ombudsman causes him not to have as much independence as he does. The Ombudsman who is elected by the Sejm. There was a speech about it. I don't think he's actually gonna have that independence, but that's my private opinion. The Minister presented it in such a way that it would be a separate official and that he would not be subject to the Ministry, but... well, as the Minister calls, this and cancels. [[Exactly. Thank you very much.]] [[That's the whole point.]] [[Exactly. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u80	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Do any of you have another question for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Mariusz Halady, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Can I answer the questions immediately?]] You're welcome. Yeah, now's the time. You can answer that. I'm sure there'll be more questions for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm gonna follow up on those questions here. I'm not going to talk about the essence of the whole project anymore because we talked about it last night. In answer to these questions, I will really try to point out some key elements. Senator Komarnicki asked a question about the liquidation of the list of concessions. Mr. Senator put it in such a way that it creates a great risk of discretion. No, it's not. Please see also this in the following answers. That we purposely constructed this law in this way. It is a short, relatively short law, comprising several dozen articles. She's already been summoned to the Senate. but also in the course of previous work The Wilczek Act. Well, we talked yesterday about comparing to the Wilczek bill, and we agreed that there's no way to get back to her that easy, the more that I was talking about it, too. Not all its consequences, particularly in the early years of the 1988 Business Act, we would like to repeat. However, a certain reference to that law is contained in the construction of that act. If we were to go back to... that's why we didn't want to take into account some of the amendments of the Legislative Bureau yesterday. Taking into account all the comments made by the office or repeating these concessions, permits and RDRs on several pages of the Act I'm not talking about one of the senators asking that, either. 5 sets back into one. Well, it would be a return to the Freedom of Business Act, which does not function, does not have a systemic meaning, does not serve entrepreneurs as a kind of shield or a charter of rights, as we call this law in everyday conversations. Such a law would contain a lot of technical elements and would, of course, be often amended. We would return to the situation that we are dealing with today, which causes the role of the Law on freedom of economic activity as a system act to be none. As for the list of concessions, we do not limit anything, we do not increase discretion, because concessions, permits and RDRs, as it is today, will be able to be established only on the basis of the law. So whether or not this list will be in the bill or not... It is up to the legislator to decide whether or not the licence in question will be established. The information function, carried out on these good few or even a few pages of the This concession would still apply, only that the entrepreneur, looking at the bill, would be happy, happy, because a given concession would not be in it, and yet, God forbid, would start this activity without proper permission... Then he falls into the risk of illegal activity. In order to illustrate this situation, one of the amendments in the Sejm, tabled to restore the list of concessions in business law, as in U.s.d.g., turned out to be obsolete, outdated due to this one concession. Well, that's an example of the fact that putting this list in the bill makes no sense. At the same time, we're introducing... [[But she wasn't...]] Mr. Senator, I'd be happy to tell you which concession wasn't in the parliamentary amendment. [[We'll fill it in.]] It's not just that every time you forget someone, supplement them, and so on. after 2 months to amend the bill to include this concession, only so that this list is really up to date. We ensure this in such a way that the right of entrepreneurs obliges the minister responsible for economic affairs to keep the list updated at the information point for entrepreneurs, i.e. in this new institution, in a new portal, which will be just such an information board for entrepreneurs. Then I as an entrepreneur only need one click to find out if the activity is licensed or not. It's much simpler and I think it's also more appropriate to the technical and technological capabilities of today's times. The second issue concerned the limitation of controls. I will say this: a major change in the audit chapter took place on 1 January 2017, in a systematic manner at the end of 2016, and we substantially amended the audit chapter. President Stanisławek quoted today whether he cited data on the control of the Social Security Office and there is a decrease of about 1/4. The result is similar with regard to tax controls. So in the case of the 2 most common, the 2 most commonly mentioned types of controls by entrepreneurs is a decrease, in both cases there is a decrease while maintaining and even increasing the effectiveness of these controls. This is an effect, among others. the 2017 amendment, which today obliges control authorities to advance the so-called "control" activities. risk analysis, i.e. estimation of the likelihood of infringement in particular industries, and sometimes by individual entities, in order not to make blind controls, so that controls are more hit, i.e. that in the case of an entrepreneur who, in a little colloquially speaking, It doesn't provoke its behavior, it doesn't attract the attention of the services and inspection, there was less risk that his company would be knocked on the check. Now, if these regulations work, because when it comes to controls, we have, I would say, such a positive trend from the point of view of entrepreneurs, then why change them? For these reasons, We propose to maintain them in the essential part, although we make some changes in spite of everything. Why instead of the 1st Act 5 laws? That's what the senator asked me, too. About why 5 laws instead of 1 large law, I tried to tell you at the beginning. Today there is no system law in public economic law. The Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity does not play such a role at all. When we return, I don't know, to the act "Entrepreneur's Law" and there will be technical functioning of the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity, technical aspects related to the operation of an information point for entrepreneurs or some technical issues, e.g. With the choice of the spokesperson, we're going to fall into the same trap again, and now I've run out of words. I would say that the focus of this law on a lot of technical details, and if there are technical details, the law will have to be amended for the sake of progress, because the world of technology is still moving forward and it is not possible to update these issues differently. We're going to get to the same point where we're here today, in terms of u.s.d.g., that we have 1 law with 1,000 laws functioning in the economic space. And that's what we're talking about. That's why we're talking about this law as a business constitution. It is important that this law establishes only the principle, the most important issues relating to economic activity. Therefore, e.g. the issue of foreign persons has been shifted to a separate law It is precisely so that this is as short as possible a legal act which for each trader will constitute a catalogue of rights and guarantees and, in the case of offices, specify obligations to comply with. And that's why this law is so structural, it's formulated in this way. Only in this way can a system law be established, which, as it were, radiates into the entire economic law, because that's also going to happen in a moment... That's what's been going on in your questions, too. Even if Senator Augustine asked yesterday where this breakthrough was. Today's public economic law is flawed, flawed precisely from this point of view, that such a system law, as I said before, simply does not exist. If I came to you today with a new code of administrative procedure, with a new civil code or, I don't know, with a new criminal code or k.p.k., these laws are built on a similar principle as our business law. We gather here the most important institutions, the most important business principles And that's what makes this system bill. But we don't give you all the details. The point is not to bring this law into the role of one of many, but to the extent that it is possible in today's system of sources of law to ensure the systemicity of this law. We didn't talk about this at the committee meeting, but we don't have the so-called today. organic laws which are higher than other laws, directly under the constitution. We don't have that kind of setup. Therefore, the text, the addition of the provision, and there were proposals in the Sejm to enter this That business law is more important than... Of course, I'm simplifying right now because I'm not talking about faithfully putting this record down, it's about the sense that business law is more important than other laws. We can write that down, but so what? Nothing. There's nothing in the legal sense that's gonna do that. Senator Augustyn asked about the participation of the organization, and later Mr Marshal Borusewicz discussed this subject. As President Stanisławek said here, it is difficult to drag someone here as if by force. I can say this: during the consultation process, which, as Mr President said, lasted a year and a half, all the organisations that were mentioned here today were very active. On this basis, I think I can say that the whole package is supported by these organisations. It was not enough that there were even special letters signed by all these organisations, addressed to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for Development, so that these draft laws could be adopted by the government as soon as possible and sent to Parliament for adoption as soon as possible. So I guess that doesn't raise any doubts. This law is expected by the economic environment. Senator Florek also asked about the limitations of control. Why is this chapter called that? That's because there are no rules of control in this chapter. The rules of control are in the various laws, e.g. in the Health Inspection Act, about KAS, about food inspection, about the Supreme Audit Chamber, about the State Labour Inspection, etc. There are rules on operating procedures. There are limitations in this law on the conduct of inspections, namely the issue of 7 days' notification, the issue of prohibiting the repetition of checks to the same extent, temporary limitations of controls, the issue of prohibiting the simultaneous conduct of checks. These are all restrictions on control. The rules of inspection shall be laid down in specific laws. Non-registered activities... Oh, there was a question here, too, from Senator Flork. It's a good thing I wrote it down. If the trader can switch to a non-registered activity. Well, that's why we're putting a 5-year limit on Mr. Senator Augustine's question yesterday, too, or is he questioning the meaning of that restriction? In order not to make such a move: in one month economic activity, in the other non-registered activity. This is an institution designed for people who do not want to be entrepreneurs in terms of the scale of their business. So this isn't the solution for someone who wants to make their main source of income out of some kind of economic activity. It's for people who... It's, I don't know, like. for a teacher who occasionally tutors, for a pensioner who once or twice a week sells some products at a marketplace, or for someone who sells on the Internet, but not on a mass scale, only that receives income of up to half the minimum wage. It's for people like that. And this 5-year limit is intentionally introduced as such a buffer As in the case of the small Social Security Office, there is, by analogy, a system coherence that is preserved here in order to counteract, I would say, abuse of these rules or use them for purposes for which they were not created. Yesterday, in the first sentence, the senator said that, in your opinion, this solution is risky from the point of view of the grey zone, and then the senator said that this 5-year limitation is unnecessary. I believe we have just proposed a well calibrated solution. On the one hand, This is a solution that unlocks a certain potential of small-scale people as an additional source of income, in a way that is such a free, unlimited business regime, which involves contributions, accounting rules, environmental rules, etc. On the other hand, it is a safe solution, because the threshold is not too high, there is this buffer associated with the transition from business and finally there is also the fact that this income is to be a monthly, so it cannot be that I do e.g. 2 shots a year after PLN 6,000 and thus avoid regulatory issues related to business. This is a solution prepared for people like the ones I've told you about, and for people who think about starting a business, but are not convinced of it. I don't know, they're terrified that you have to register that you have to start paying contributions, they think: I don't have a single customer yet, and from day one I have to start thinking about all kinds of formalities and contributions. So this solution, together with the start-up relief that we also provide in business law, creates such a runway for people who are not fully convinced, and want to try, see if the business activity is something that can kidnap them as a primary, basic professional activity in life. Such a person can start looking for customers, think about the idea of a possible business. Then it reaches its first revenue, say, 200 PLN in February, 700 PLN in March, 600 PLN in April. There is no such threshold. When it begins to reach this threshold, it sees that it starts to go, that economic activity is something that it wants to do instead of, for example. to sit on the board at the office, then register business activity. Then he's relieved to start, he's still six months old, and he doesn't have to pay his contributions, he doesn't even have to register with the ZUS. So that she is already entering this formal regime, but her first thought is not whether she can already pay her contributions. And it's only after six months of start-up relief that you enter into two years of small ZUS. So entering into an economic activity for a person who is not convinced of it is, I would say, very soft. Clearly, this should free up the entrepreneurship gene in those who are not convinced that they want to enter this river. Senator Libicki said this is a collection of regulations from various legal acts. A little bit, but mostly not. That, for example. In the Penal Code, there is a presumption of innocence, doesn't mean that in the course of my case before the office, I can say this: right now, Mr. Officer, in the Penal Code there is a presumption of innocence, and you cannot impose this penalty on me, that obligation on me. You can't invoke another bill... And that's what I was talking about at first. Public economic law does not have this skeleton on which the whole system of specific laws is based. This system is so formed today that we have just hundreds of laws, each of which is equal to each other and each regulates various specific issues in its own way. Where there is a decision-making leeway, that's where business law comes in. That's when these rules come in, that's when the church comes in, this system of values of public economic law. This is the role of business law as a system law. Just because some of these rules work in other laws doesn't mean that in every procedure I can rely on these principles, since, as I say, I'm not in the regime of those laws. In addition, some principles simply, to put it a little harshly, are drawn out of the constitution. The fact that there are regulations or principles created by the Constitution in a certain circumstantial circulation or in the doctrine of the law does not mean that in individual proceedings... Let's say that a small entrepreneur, I don't know, in a small community office or in an old age, says this: wait, wait, but for me it's from an art. 2nd Constitution says you can't ask me for documents other than the law requires. Of course, we can draw such a principle from the Constitution, only that... but I think we all know in this Chamber that such direct application of the Constitution provisions Not yet in such a way that we refer directly to the whole clear provision, but in such a way that we simply draw individual rations from the individual provisions of the Constitution. I don't think we're very successful in referring to this kind of right. Neither is the entrepreneur to investigate comments and collections of case law of the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court in order to determine his rights and guarantees. That's what the system bill is for. We use the acquis, the doctrine, the case law and transfer it in a concrete way to the right of entrepreneurs just so that in this single law, in these dozens of articles, all of this is collected. The point is that the entrepreneur can rely on it, not enough, sorry, abstract principles known mainly to lawyers and to people who in this regulatory or institutional environment feel like they're in their element. That's not what an entrepreneur's for. And that is also the function of business law. Senator Libicki asked about these most important new effects or the benefits of these laws. Finally, the creation of such a system law will allow for the systematicisation, hierarchisation of this public economic law. These are general principles that can be invoked. I recalled yesterday the data on the effectiveness of referring in proceedings before administrative courts to the general principles arising from the c.p.a. It turns out that in more than 70% judgments that we have reviewed The court accepted the action of the party pleading precisely these principles, in particular the Article. 7, 8 pp.a. But, as I said, not all decisions issued to the entrepreneur are issued in the manner and in the regime of K.P.A. This is the gap that business law fills. The rules for creating or drawing up draft economic acts are completely new. The discussion of whether there should be legislation on lawmaking has been going on since the 1970s in doctrine. No one has so far decided to lay down such provisions at the statutory level. This is deregulation, but I would say, in some sense, systemic deregulation, because here we are introducing some directives for drafting legislation so that already at the level of drafting legislation, at the level of drafting legislation, this deregulation thinking is. The point is not to impose unnecessary responsibilities here anymore. Plus these deregulation reviews, which every minister will be obliged to present to the Council of Ministers once a year. This is systemic deregulation. This is the function of this bill. The function of this law is not to abolish, I do not know, some obligation in environmental law or some individual provisions in health and safety regulations, but to establish a certain system framework. The Ombudsman is also a systemic institution, which is about to support entrepreneurs in this movement in the regulatory environment, institutionally in both systemic and individual aspects, i.e. intervention, in the case of individual entrepreneurs, in specific proceedings. An information point for entrepreneurs, non-registered activities, a start-up relief are all solutions that were not there. Senator Czarnobaj and Marshal Borusewicz asked... What is the difference between legal explanations and interpretation, you asked Senator Czarnobaj, and you asked the marshal . which is different from legal opinions. Explanations from individual interpretations differ even in nature, i.e. legal explanations are universal in nature. The publication of such explanations, their public presentation by the Minister on the website makes it possible for anyone who follows these legal explanations to be protected from the negative consequences if these explanations prove to be incorrect or if the authority suddenly changed its mind in specific proceedings. This is the element I was talking about yesterday, the legal certainty clause. I, following such explanations, even if they were not issued at my request, have later provided protection in the proceedings. Individual interpretation is in principle used only for those who have applied for it, and in addition, the facts and their own interpretation have to be stated. That's what we do in the tax administration. There is another advantage to legal explanations. That this is such a little less formalized formula in the sense that such legal explanations may also give examples of business situations. We have also introduced legal explanations under the rules in this law, which I mentioned earlier, and which came into force on 1 January 2017, in tax regulations. It's starting to work. Entrepreneurs themselves ask the Minister of Finance to, I don't know, e.g. in the area of construction, it issued such legal explanations in the field of VAT. Since we have an institution that is so well received, because entrepreneurs see an advantage in it, we propose here that, so to speak, we go further, that is, not only with regard to tax regulations, but also with regard to all the regulations concerning business activities and all the authorities. The legal opinion is, for example, different from that of power. The legal opinion has no power. It cannot protect an entrepreneur who will comply with such an opinion. Unfortunately, that's the opinion. It's just an opinion, like the name says. And as for interpretation, I would say one more thing. I said that, in principle, the interpretation protects those who apply for it, but, in addition to legal explanations, we also introduce a solution whereby compliance with the dominant line or the dominant interpretation practice of a given office will also protect the entrepreneur. So we're increasing that security here, too. However, individual interpretation always concerns a narrower law than legal explanations. And finally, the question of Senator Slugocki... I admit I didn't quite understand what that technological relief was all about. [[What is she supposed to do?]] But I don't know which technological relief, Senator. [[Well, all of them in general. If there's a few of them, please tell me...]] Technological relief is e.g. like the one introduced a few months ago in the Ministry of Development project, consisting of accelerated depreciation. The point was, it was faster to depreciate the production property. I think it's the most technologically relieved thing I've ever seen. Yeah, but it's already accepted. Here, in business law, I do not find a solution that could, so to speak, meet the definition of technological relief. And accelerated depreciation concerns assets up to PLN 100 thousand, if I remember, and consists of faster depreciation, which ensures greater liquidity of the entrepreneur. The senator also asked about... Excuse me... [[About the spokesperson.]] About the Ombudsman, too, but still about the principle of proportionality, friendship, etc., right? Whether or not they're there. There are in the system of law. But in public economic law, not necessarily. This is related to what I said earlier about this failure of business regulations, that they simply do not have this skeleton today, this main value system, as opposed to how it is in other areas that I think we all think about here, namely civil law, criminal law or administrative law. A spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, fixing... I mean, I don't agree that he's not independent. As I said yesterday, vocation is one thing, but in my opinion independence is not a question of how we invoke, but rather how we can cancel this Ombudsman. There's independence here. And the grounds for the Ombudsman's appeal are designed in such a way that they do not give the Minister or the Prime Minister the opportunity to make such an appeal on request, that I say a little more, sorry, colloquially. So it can't be that the government isn't gonna like anything about the functioning of the spokesperson and shit, the next day the spokesperson's canceled. There are grounds for appealing this Ombudsman. And like I said, a little simplistic, yesterday at the committee meeting, to be cancelled, you have to earn it. Because these conditions are formulated as objectively as possible, i.e. the question of committing a crime, etc. So here's independence. Plus one-channel, which ensures that the Ombudsman doesn't have to worry about whether he'll be called for a second term or not, and what to do here so that the Prime Minister can appoint him for the second time. Well, that's the way the spokesperson thinks. It will no longer be burdened, because there is no possibility of two-channel office, precisely because of the Ombudsman's full independence, also such, I would say, internal. Who's gonna pay? This will be financed from the budget, part 20, which is served by the minister responsible for economic affairs. And then there is the appointment: let's see that the Sejm appoints constitutional advocates, i.e. the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, but the Advocates appointed on the basis of laws, e.g. The financial spokesman shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers. And the financial spokesman collects in practice, among practitioners, very good opinions among consumers. Thus, this also shows that the assessment of whether the envisaged assessment of the functioning of such an institution does not always depend on who the Ombudsman is calling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator... Minister, please stay, or there will be questions for the Minister. Senator Slugocki, and then Senator Komarnicki. I remember...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u83	Minister, I have another question about this Ombudsman. At whose request will he be appointed? Is there any way that the economic environments can create who will be the spokesperson? Wouldn't it be good if, at the time of the appointment, there was a binding positive opinion of the economic community? Have you considered anything like this about this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u85	We've considered it. Formally, the minister responsible for economic affairs will be asked by the President of the Council of Ministers, but of course any organisation will be able to submit a candidate. In addition, we have a provision which obliges the Minister to consult on the candidacy with which he wants to address the Prime Minister, just at the organization. And why such a path, rather than that it is chosen only from among candidates e.g. designated by organizations? However, let us remember that what distinguishes the Ombudsman from the organization of entrepreneurs is the functioning of this Ombudsman in the system of public authorities. This is not a private law entity. This is an institution that operates in a system of public law, which involves the fact that it also operates on the basis and within the limits of the law, i.e. it must also, while taking care of the interests of entrepreneurs, keep A certain objectivity. Private organisations, not only entrepreneurs, but all private law organisations, have greater freedom. Therefore, since the State Treasury will be responsible for possible compensation issues or the activities of such a public officer, it seems that And that's our conviction. This should be the authority or person for whom the entities responsible for its operation can take full responsibility. Well, I'm just going to say a little bit on the margin that I was wondering when, in my opinion, the proposal or the thesis was made, or the choice of a spokesman from among the candidates submitted e.g. by 5 organisations is not subject to a certain risk, that later this spokesman will be seen as the spokesperson of the organization X, that organizations W, Y, Z, etc. They're gonna see him a little bit through that prism. So I think that this element of objectivity, but also responsibility, as I said, is probably fully preserved in this formula.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u86	Please, Mr. Slugocki will ask one more thing... [[Last one, yes.]] ...the last question. And gentlemen, senators, you're already booked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u87	Minister, the last question about the Ombudsman, the question of criteria, qualifications, competence. Are there any minimums, criteria that must be met? Because not everyone, I think, can do this job. So if...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u88	I don't have a draft bill, if I could ask your principal... But these criteria are provided for in the Ombudsman's Act. This is a question and experience, and practical skills just through the prism of this experience indicated. He's talking about it... That's what we have in the article. 2. There are a total of 7 conditions here, these are such purely formal conditions of the type: Polish citizen, the exercise of full public rights, non-punishment, etc., but also knowledge of entrepreneurship and legal regulations creating a business environment, at least 5 years of experience in carrying out business activity or representing business interests, or creating or applying business law. Well, there are also issues related to the absence, so to speak, of the history of service work or cooperation with them in 1944 and 1990. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u89	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, with the answers to the first three questions, you have convinced me. and thank you for these answers, although the record does not show what was the content of your answers. Because the content of your answer convinces me, and the record itself does not and hence the doubts. Minister, since I have met with two economic organisations of the economic self-government and I know that the biggest emotions have raised the issue of the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, I must, even though it has already been fought here, ask further questions. Because I'm not satisfied with your answer, Minister. If you don't mind... In the first version of the project, the Ombudsman was to serve entrepreneurs, all entrepreneurs. After all, these entrepreneurs, Minister, who are now big and can do much, were once small. And they're gonna be costing the Ombudsman's work. You can't do that, Minister. Many business circles do not agree to this; they simply consider it to be discrimination. Why is there such discrimination against large businesses? I deliver the votes in the discussion of small, medium and large entrepreneurs who were at a meeting with me. Entrepreneur's spokesman is to implement constitutional principles. So why isn't there the most important constitutional principle for entrepreneurs, which is simply, Minister, freedom of business? Why do you not wish to set up the Ombudsman in the same way as the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman? After all, we have a clear path of calling. Why isn't the spokesperson appointed by the Sejm? The point is, if you want to strengthen his position... I do, and so do all the entrepreneurs. And I was an entrepreneur for 25 years that if he is to settle serious disputes, and often so, between a company and a government institution, he must be independent. And my last question, Minister. An entrepreneur's spokesman would not have been needed if the State had been fair to traders. It would not be necessary to establish a new institution that will cost, attention And I, as an entrepreneur, have always paid attention to the costs, Mr. Minister, PLN 18 million. And he's gonna hire this institution of 75 more new officials. Not much, this spokesperson could actually have the power to act if he were appointed by the Sejm. And since he's gonna be an official of the state administration, it's... How does that even apply to a situation where there are big disputes? And yet, if you don't mind, the last sentence. The Ombudsman should be absolutely independent and armed with instruments that would actually protect the rights of entrepreneurs. And the disputes are big, and as an entrepreneur myself I have dealt with many such disputes with the institutions of the state.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u91	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jerzy Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u92	Minister, I have two questions about the start-up allowance. But before that, I would like to ask you about this non-denial activity. Is a person who would like to, for example, open a beauty parlor and place it in your apartment, can run such activities, with opening hours, with a sign hanging on your building? Can such activities also be carried out as part of a non-resident activity? And I'm going back to asking you about the start-up relief. There's a concept that starts a businessman. If a person who has not previously engaged in an economic activity starts such an economic activity, then there is no problem. But what about the person who was doing business for some reason stopped doing business and started it again? Is there any kind of punishment, or is there some kind of control system, so that such a person isn't an eternal beginner? And the similar character of the question of a small relief of the ZUS. Who will be able to benefit from this little relief? Will there be a criterion, or will it be known in advance that meeting the criteria in question allows for the use of a small relief from the Social Security Office? And what is the defined value of this relief? Is it specified in the Act, or will it be determined by the Social Security Office for each entrepreneur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u93	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u94	First, Senator Komarnicki, the senator's question. Why doesn't the Ombudsman protect the fundamental values and constitutional freedom of economic activity, yes? [[Yes.]] Art. 1 paragraph 1: The Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs upholds the rights of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular respect for the principle of freedom of business. So... And secondly, where is the freedom of business? It's not an abstract. Yes? Freedom of business must be manifested in the rights and guarantees of the entrepreneur. So, first of all, this protection of freedom of business is in the Ombudsman's task, and second of all, the protection of the rights and freedoms of entrepreneurs. This is the protection of freedom of economic activity, because there is no such thing... The principle of freedom of economic activity is not an abstract principle, that is, it must materialize in concrete guarantees of entrepreneurs. And this is the subject of protection by the Ombudsman. Mr. Senator said that the spokesperson was unnecessary, that if the State were to function well, the Ombudsman would be unnecessary. [[Why? Why?]] Mr. Senator, I'll take a comparative example. Where is the spokesperson in which countries? In the United States, in Australia, in South Korea, in Georgia, in some German lands, although it is not called a spokesman, there is a kind of equivalent. Well, if we were to say, in the direction of which regulations, towards which countries with friendly economic regulations, we would probably put all these countries on our list. All of these countries are unfortunately higher than us in the rankings, for example, and yet they have an institution of the Ombudsman and these countries, apart from Georgia, have a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We have also studied practical aspects in these individual countries, talked, collected information from the States and Georgia regarding the functioning of this institution, but we have also asked the entrepreneurs themselves who are active there. Everywhere the opinion was clearly positive, that it was such a kind of entrepreneur's lawyer in the structure of the state, everywhere this assessment was positive. The example from Georgia is very cool. I said this yesterday at the committee meeting, and this power is also proposed in the law passed by the Sejm. This is the organisation of mediation between the trader and the office. We've introduced a mediation institution into C.P.A. in this term of office, working on amending the Code of Administrative Procedure, but, as I say, we all know the reality and we know that it is not easy for an official to join mediation. Yes? It was the introduction of a tool. And what does the spokesperson give you? The Ombudsman, as a public authority, provides a guarantee of such security as that of an official that he will not encourage any mediation in such a way that he will conduct it in a safe manner. I'll give you an example here, too. We as the Ministry... Sometimes we heard signals that something was wrong with the interpretations of a given ministry or that some project was bad for companies and that they could not reach the right ministry for a conversation. Sometimes in our ministry we organized such meetings, which, on the one hand, were attended by an organization reporting a particular problem, and on the other hand, we invited representatives of this ministry. And while the beginning of the conversation was that we had to act as moderator for such a discussion, our active role was needed at this meeting, but as time passed, we were able to withdraw from this meeting, because suddenly on the basis of our ministerial platform, or infrastructure, they, that is, officials and this organization or entrepreneurs, were just starting to talk to each other. So sometimes you need such a stimulus, and the spokesperson, apart from this protection, is supposed to give such incentives. When it comes to calling, I've already told you before, answering one of the questions... Call the Sejm, okay. And if the Sejm can also cancel, then the majority will decide. So here... The Prime Minister will be able to call off the Prime Minister. But I don't think it's about who's gonna cancel and who's gonna call it off, and it's about what conditions he can cancel. And here we are introducing the conditions for this appeal as much as possible, to the maximum objective, based also on regulations concerning other institutions of this type. So, in my opinion, ♪ Plus this one-time thing ♪ It is the basis for the independence of the institution. 70 people... [[A lot.]] That's relative. It is one department, a large department in the ministry. So as on the scale of the task that has been assigned, looking also at international experiences, and for example. Financial spokesman, who is one of the youngest spokespersons in the system of Polish law... I think we can be calm about the balance of benefits and costs that actually oscillate at the level of several million a year. But I'll also say that it's the maximum cost, they don't have to be used for the lid. Senator Wcisła asked if he would be able to set up an office and whether he would be able to use non-registered activities for this purpose. If the activity is not covered by any concession, permit, regulated activity register, specific laws or regulations... Well, in the case of a dental office, I can't imagine. First of all, the criteria exist, so I'm e.g. I wouldn't be able to open a dentist's office anymore, based on an institution of unregistered activity, because I'm being restricted by other laws. But if, for example... [[Voice from the room:...hairdresser.]] ...hairdresser... Well, for example. trade. If I'm about to trade some items that I'm buying somewhere in the warehouse, and then I want to sell them, then if I don't cross that threshold that we're talking about here, half the minimum wage, yeah, I don't have to register. If I were to carry out such activities today in a continuous and organized manner, I would have to register, pay contributions, run full... full of it not, but I'd have to run some accounting. Environmental regulations are often addressed to entrepreneurs, such very detailed ones. So it's all coming down... Indeed, trade is a good example, because it is not subject to any specific rules from the party or subject matter or subject matter. As for the cessation of business and whether I will be able to benefit later... Here we enter into the system of small ZUS, which already functions today, i.e. this 2-year reduction period in the payment of contributions. And on the same principle... So for five years, I can't get back into the start-up relief system and so-called. Little ZUS. So there's this time buffer, so you don't take out your business every year, and then you don't start it again after a year. So here we add, so to speak, one element in front of a small ZUS to enter into the system and not create another, separate mode or solution. The value of the relief? Well, the value of the relief is the amount of the contribution to the Social Security Office, which means the amount of the relief will be the amount of the contribution to the Social Security Office at the time. Just a start-up relief relieves you from paying your contribution to the ZUS in full amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If I could get back to the legal explanation... Firstly, I would like to say that any legislation that will ease business is a move in the right direction. I am personally pleased that the Minister is talking about so many solutions to facilitate economic activity, because we hope And I understand that it's, among other things. was a decisive element in the creation of this constitution That investments in Poland will increase, I am talking about private investments. Minister, as far as legal explanations are concerned, who will be the initiator of the legal explanation? I'm talking about the following thing. If 3 or 4 entrepreneurs apply for an individual interpretation, the office can say: "I'm sorry, you're asking for an interpretation," then the explanation is unnecessary. I mean, who will be the initiator of this document, which is important from the point of view of application of the law. That's one thing. Two. There's a very important thing that the Minister said. Because the constitution, by its very name... It should be that this is a document that is respected by everyone, by everyone. I know countries where the constitution is believed to be a piece of paper... But back to the constitution that the Minister was talking about... If there are discrepancies in the legal interpretation and in the Constitution, who will decide? What will be the position of the entrepreneur if the legal opinion he seeks is such that the constitutional document is slightly contrary to the existing law? It's about the area where he's concerned about the question. Because this could prove to be one of the weaknesses of this constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u97	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u98	Minister, I've had the opportunity to ask a lot of questions, so now just a few. However, I would still ask for a proper justification for the 60-month period for non-registered activities. The Minister probably knows very well that 1/3 companies in Poland fall in the first year, and 70% within 50 years. 70% ! Why should an entrepreneur who ends his business and retires be deprived of his right to earn money? Polish entrepreneurs, especially in trade, running some shops, etc., are barely making ends meet today. They go to very low retirement benefits. They have all kinds of skills. They will not be able to benefit from the benefits of this law. Why? That's my first question. The second refers to Article. 18. Yes, this launch package... There's always more. Yes? And we're gonna appeal for more. Because if we say that 1/3 of the companies are going down in the first year, that means it's a tough start. And after the first six months, we turn on the brakes on this runway, as you say, and we say, but we're done with the relief because it's been six months. So I would ask you to explain why. there is no relief in the health contribution. Since we have already made a decision, unless last year, that all citizens of the Republic are insured regardless of whether they pay the premium or not, and there is no longer a obligation to prove it, why not do so? The financial impact seems small, and it would save a huge mite. The next question concerns the position of labour inspectors mentioned here by the President. We have not touched on this topic at the committee meeting, so I would be very grateful if the Minister would refer to it today. And finally, I'd like to ask you about Art. 37. Maybe I didn't exactly express myself, or we didn't understand each other. I did not mean to clarify in this article the specific concessions that must be issued but to clarify the areas in which the concession is mandatory. It's very laconic here to say, and generally written. And it seems to me that the function of this general act, let's call it "the" one, should be that it is to rule out the possibility of any administrative action, but also the legislator. The Minister spoke here, in a way, about what I was asking. He even called my name. That there is a threat that one of the areas would be left out, that we would miss a case. Yeah, it just seems to me that entrepreneurs would like to make sure that a breach of this catalogue would be such a big decision that it would require a revision of this law. And that's how I think it should be, that's the kind of certainty we should give. That is why I ask again: why do you oppose when it is proposed that Article. 37 so that it covers the areas in which the concession is necessary and actually enumerates them? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] And last but one more question, Mr. Marshal. I know I'm over a minute, but I don't want to ask any more questions. Minister, I asked about this article. 60 and you mentioned Moreover, about him, who says that in some cases the mayor, the president, will have the opportunity to stop the company. This is a very serious decision. I believe that this provision is not entirely clear. Whether the mayor or the president of the saw can That's how I understand it. To try to stop and even stop the activities of plants that he believes are harmful to the environment and operate in other areas, e.g. Neighborhoods? I'm asking because... you know that because I referred to a particular company in that statement. I read this article even more thoroughly. 60. Well, these are amazing permissions for the mayor, the mayor, because he can stop the company, for example. employs 1 000 500 people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I recall that Senator Komarnicki said at the beginning of the previous statement that I don't know if I'm paraphrasing correctly. I convinced your senator by his statement, but you don't see it in the rules. I can say that this is a kind of pain for us who prepared this bill, and yesterday we also talked about it, Senator Augustine probably said that today we need some finesse, that it is not enough to rewrite the Wilczek Act. Indeed, it is not enough to rewrite the Wilczek Act. I'm saying a little bit of pain with a smile, because we can't actually just type in today: business law is more important than other laws. We can't. That's why the whole difficulty of this bill is this. Perhaps it is also difficult for people who read it to accept this law. It's just that rules like this aren't gonna do any good. Putting such legislation into the right of entrepreneurs simply will not give a gram, so to speak, benefits, because it will at best be ineffective, and at worst it will simply be contrary to the presumably Article. 91nd Constitution. In the senators' questions, there was this very thought that entrepreneurs were waiting for deregulation, improvements, facilitations, etc. That's right. That is why I said yesterday in the first sentence of the committee meeting that our work is two-track, that on the one hand we are preparing and presenting to Parliament laws on specific areas in which we are removing certain burdens or introducing institutions to say, pro-development, and on the other hand there are, and this is such a law, system laws. I also need to share one more such personal reflection. Well, when we come to the Sejm and the Senate with these laws, as I say, detailed, I get such a charge very often: well, here you eliminate 3 burdens in the labour law, the 4th in the construction law, there are changes in the c.p.a., and the entrepreneurs are waiting for great systemic changes. Yeah, but it's business law that's the system change. Only she is not in turn as spectacular as the Wilczek Act, because we are in a completely different legal and constitutional reality. And as far as these specific laws are concerned, I would just remind you that we had, for example. a deregulation law which, in 30 different laws, endured various types of burdens, tax, labour, construction, etc. We had a great reform of the C.P.A., which met with a very positive welcome here. We had a creditor package, which also met with a very good reception. We've eliminated lower-ranking files, for example. training and health and safety obligations for construction companies. He's about to go to parliament... The Council of Ministers has already adopted a draft law on the succession of family businesses. Today, in turn, the Council of Ministers adopted a bill on the possibility for companies in the financial sector to verify the fact that employees are not punishable. There will also be a package for SMEs in which there are about 50 different types of simplifications; it costs more than PLN 4 billion in 10 years. So these specific laws are like they're going in parallel. And here we're talking about the bill, like I said, detailed. But that's exactly what our system of sources of law requires. Let me use Senator Augustine's words again. A certain legal finesse to achieve this effect because there is no such a simple measure. Anyway, no one. I said that yesterday, too. None of the people who during this whole one and a half-year consultation process, e.g. They were spinning their noses a little bit, saying that they would expect more, that they would want more, etc., no one offered an alternative that was legal and that would actually give the effect that we're talking about, no one had an alternative to our proposal. Senator Czarnobaj asked for an explanation of who would be the initiator. The initiator may be either the minister or the spokesperson. I would like to point out that the Ombudsman will have a firm authority here, i.e. at his request the Minister will be obliged to make such explanations. Any entrepreneur may also make such a request. The senator also asked me to settle the discrepancies. Of course, it will decide, as in any democratic legal system, first the public authority and then, of course, there is an appeal to the court. But the rules that are here, the powers or the responsibilities of the organs... That's what we didn't talk about yesterday or today. So they have one more advantage. They're not just an organ responsibility. They for organs, for officials can be so... Again, I apologize for the colloquialism; it is also a matter of not thinking about every word for two minutes. So this is some kind of handshake for an official who sees that the case is difficult to win, there is no strong legal basis in the bill. In such a situation, he may issue a decision in favour of the trader. Of course, somewhere in the ruling of the NSA, it will appear somewhere in doctrine, as I said before, but the official is primarily governed by the law. If it's not in the law, he probably won't apply it. I think he's gonna say that we all know that from experience. Yeah, I'll make the negative decision, at best let the court blow it off, and I'll have an alibi. [[Safe...]] That's right. And here we also provide this security to the official, because there is a tough rule of law that gives the basis to approach the decision in a partnership, friendly way. And if he violates those rules, then the dispute settlement system will already work. Senator Augustyn once again asked about these 60 months in the case of non-registered activities and said that 1/3 of the companies fell in the first year. As we have said from the very beginning, this solution is not for entrepreneurs who want to be an entrepreneur on Tuesday, and when they don't go on Wednesday, they want to be non-registered, and on Thursday they want to be an entrepreneur again. This is not a solution for entrepreneurs to make sense strictly. This is for people who want to make extra money for their salary, scholarship, retirement, pensions and decide to have extra activity, but do not want to enter into the business regime, because then we will introduce a solution not only for the pensioner you were talking about, but also for... [[The entrepreneur may at some point be retired.]] Mr. Senator, that's right, but if we open this kind of solution, then it's not just pensioners who will benefit from this solution. Yes? It will then have to be universal. The purpose of this solution is... It is as if directed at people who today are either afraid to undertake such activities, or who take them and enter the grey zone, because the scale of the activity is not enough to pay social security contributions. It's a tough start. I said there's a possibility of taking off in an unlimited period of time. And until the ceiling for half of the minimum wage is reached, you can operate if you are a beginner, without that risk. Labour inspectors. Here is the question of excluding the provisions of Chapter 5 of the business law from the control of the State Labour Inspection. This is... I don't know in what context the senator asked. Is it in support of this change, or neutrally? [[I wanted to know what the ministry had in common.]] It's what we've been consistently presenting from the very beginning. We do not see the purpose and validity of this control authority to exclude entirely from the limitations of control. There is an international health and safety convention. All the powers of the State Labour Inspection, which result from the international convention, are respected in the law of business. In other words, where the international convention gives inspection, I do not know, the possibility of not notifying control or the right to unlimited control, there the right of traders, in accordance with the constitutional hierarchy of sources of law, departs from the international convention. We believe that this restriction is sufficient for labour inspection. We also consistently present the position that the Convention is in force. Because there were doubts. Art. 37. We're going back to that again. The senator said to put the licensing areas in here. I'd ask, what's that gonna do? And I can tell you right away it's not gonna do anything. Art. The 91st Constitution speaks of a hierarchy of legal sources. In a formal sense, the law is no higher than another law. If a detailed bill, I don't know, about control of buttons in mining uniforms, we introduce a license to produce buttons in mining uniforms and we don't change the right of entrepreneurs, it doesn't mean that there is no license. Like I said, it'll be misleading. The list of current concessions will be at the information point for entrepreneurs. Again, the answer is simple: the constitution. If we wanted to achieve the goal that the senator is talking about in this way, I would support it. It seemed that the Freedom of Business Act had the same purpose and was also intended to provide this, but we would have to change the constitution and we would have to introduce the so-called. organic laws. In the Organic Act, we would have introduced a provision that concessions are only in one, in one area and in one area. Then the introduction of concessions in another area, e.g. by a detailed law, it would be ineffective, because it would be contrary to the organic law, as if today were not in accordance with the constitution. That's my answer. With the idea, with the aim of asking whether the senator's proposals I agree, but I say that under our legal conditions this solution will simply be ineffective. We're watching it today. Art. 60. I agree that this is a strong authority. This recipe has been in force for a few years now. It comes to us as a ministry of many different types of objections to the functioning of the administration, but I do not remember that we have at least once received a complaint about the functioning of this provision. Why? The authority must make very prudent use of this provision because it is liable for damages, for example. he would have decided on such a strong instrument in the form of stopping the company, based on some weak premises or on weak evidence. This organ will get in trouble itself if it does contra legem. It seems that this right is not abused today. We don't get that kind of signal. I'd be scared to give up this power because there might be situations where you're gonna have to act very quickly, because, I don't know, it's gonna happen... [[It's about clarification, because it's not said here...]] But there is, those conditions are there. I don't have a bill in front of me right now, but there's a premise that, for safety's sake... the nature of the general clause is established even by case law. Authorities in this area know the law and know what the framework for these phrases is. There is, for example, a public interest, a threat to human life and health, a threat to public order. These are phrases that have been functioning for many years in the regulations, very strongly built on the basis. It's not abused by organs. I think it would be very risky if we deprived public authority of that power. Here we have at stake the two constitutional values we protect. We have freedom of business on one hand. . and this would undoubtedly be a reduction in economic activity. On the other hand, we have this public interest, health and safety of citizens. Unfortunately, this first value in this situation, in my opinion, must yield to the second, higher value. Thank you. [[Thank you...]] [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister has not answered one question. I just want to remind you. I asked him why he wasn't released from his health contributions.]] Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. [[There you go.]] I'm sorry, I didn't notice, yes. Honestly, we haven't really considered it. We considered, looking at the importance of the health system, etc., that the health contribution is an element that should remain as a mandatory fee. At the level of the legislative process, there were a lot of questions, suggestions that this entrepreneur would be deprived of health care... [[But did you...]] Okay, but... I can't say more than that we've decided that maintaining the health system is important enough... In addition, it is a much lower contribution than a social security contribution. So that from the point of view of the value of different fees we considered that it should be maintained, the insurance premium is definitely higher. And as for the cost to the health system, that wouldn't be a mess. We did such simulations with the Minister, and it turned out that it would, apparently, be over 200 million zlotys a year. It's definitely not a mess.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u101	Thank you. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. There's no senator. It's Senator George Wright... Oh, there's the senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u102	Minister, now is the case that if I report business activity to the municipal office, that is to say, I will become an entrepreneur, a natural person conducting business... But then I'll lose the opportunity to settle PIT with my spouse. Until I'm done with this business, I can't account for myself with my spouse. If I suspend this activity, if the activity is suspended, I will not have this opportunity either. Thus, the suspension does not make it possible to recover the possibility of a joint settlement of personal income tax. Will there be any change in this matter? I mean, mostly, if, for example. the activity will be suspended, this possibility of joint settlement can be recovered. And second question, so practical. If I hire someone but not as a senator, only privately E.g. for some law enforcement work on the plot, and the employee's earnings will be, say, less than half of the minimum wage, which is less than PLN 1 thousand 500, then will I have to report this fact to any authority at all, and will this employee also have to pay a ZUS contribution and tax? This is a practical explanation that simply needs to be met by formal requirements so that all of this is legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm a little confused by this question about the joint settlement of spouses after the suspension of business. So that I don't guess and not try to answer around, I'm just gonna answer after I've checked the issue in detail. Anyway, we certainly don't change that in this bill, but I'm not prepared to answer the questions as to whether today's rules will remain here. As far as earnings are concerned, the ZUS contribution from this employee will have to be taken away. We are not aggravating the situation of the contractor of such a person, as we discussed yesterday at the committee meeting. The counterparty of an unregistered activity shall be with all tax, contribution, etc., but we shall not change the situation of the persons who cooperate with it, carry out any orders and activities for that person or carry out work on the basis of the Labour Code. We do not deprive such people of protection, they will be socially protected just as they are protected today. We are changing this situation in this public sphere, but this concerns the person who conducts this unregistered activity. She won't have to pay her social security contributions for herself.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u106	Minister, I only have such a specific question concerning your previous answer. The start-up allowance shall be granted to the beginner once every 5 years. Does this mean that a beginner entrepreneur who, after 4 years and 10 months, will be able to close the business in 2 months, will be able to open it again and benefit from the relief? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u107	Yes, five years must pass from enjoying the relief the previous time, as it is today in the case of a small ZUS. These are exactly the same rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. These are my last questions. First question, Minister... [[Are you sure it's the last one?]] I'm sure. Minister, my first question is this. You are referring to examples of different countries, but I do not want you to tell me what it's like in Georgia. I'd like to ask you. I'm sure you've been following this. In what form he is appointed and in what legal form this Ombudsman operates in the United States. Because you referred to the United States. Now the second question. I am particularly concerned with the foreign entrepreneur, because in Poland so far he had to overcome a lot of barriers, search through legal acts and, above all, employ a huge number of specialists, professionals, to find himself in this thicket of Polish law somehow. Will these laws, in your opinion, Minister, result in this entrepreneur having in one legal act everything concerning the establishment of the company and, above all, its operation? And my last question. If I understood correctly, one of the changes that you proposed was the desire to resolve disputes through mediation between the office and business. Why did you pull out of this? Why do you want to add more responsibilities to already stuffed courts? And when it comes to business in courts, it's a disaster. That's what we could talk about, Minister, by morning. If there was such a record that it was necessary to give a little freedom, trust and thus try to deregulate it, then why did you withdraw from it? And the last example, substantive. 11 years ago, if it wasn't for the national economic commission and the experts, the officials would have put me in a company and 450 people would have been unfairly fired. Will the businessman no longer be able to benefit from these opportunities, Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: I'm sorry, I didn't understand the last question. What are the possibilities?]] Negotiating... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Okay, okay. It's okay, I got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u110	Good. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u111	This ombudsman in the United States, or spokesperson. I won't give the senator the exact path of calling him. It is part of government administration, central government, federal government. Comparing with the United States is always so difficult that the system of law there is primarily different from its essence in general as regards continental law and common law, and there is also state and federal law. 'Cause there's 11 state attorneys in addition to the federal one. But they're all part of the government administration. I don't know exactly how the vocation process is going, but I'm... Well, I'm not gonna say it's 100%. But I'm sure there's no binding there, for example. candidates presented by the social side. Is it all in one piece of legislation? Of course not, Senator. Maybe it'd be fun, but it'd have to be right too. [[Maybe we'll see about that, Minister.]] Yes, but let us also remember that today two thirds of our acquis is the pleasure of being a member of the European Union, and now the vast majority of legislation is also... no, no, that is the result of the need to implement European law. So if we wanted to say so, comb that law, reduce it by e.g. 80%, we would have to start not only with laws implementing European law but also with European law itself. I can only say that this is not entirely foreign to us, because there is a group of countries with which we are in quite constant contact within working groups with reform regulators. These are countries such as the Netherlands or the United Kingdom, which are trying at European level to counteract excessive production of law or inflation. So, of course, we will not have all the law in one act, but in one act we will have basic principles, basic guarantees, basic entrepreneurial powers in terms of doing business. And that's the CR function when you assume... Of course, we have the CEIDG Act. One of these 5 laws concerns the central register, where the start-up process is included, so it's also in one act. However, such a courageous idea would be difficult to achieve. But, as I say, this bill on business rights I don't want to repeat everything I said before. It is intended to have, as I say, an element of the impact on other provisions of economic law, both in the interpretation of this law, in the application of this law and in the creation of the law, precisely because there is Chapter 6 of this right of entrepreneurs, which I also mentioned earlier. These are, like, systemic tools that we're trying to get to the state of things that come out of all the senators' statements. Oh, mediation. Mr. Senator, there was no withdrawal from mediation here. We thought that you were probably talking about a rule on the principle of amicable settlement of disputes. This provision is unnecessary. Why? First of all, because we have a big change in the c.p.c., but this, let's say, is maybe in this situation, because this is civil proceedings, less adequate. But in this term of office, we have introduced a mediation institution in the code of administrative procedure at all, and as part of the creditor package, we have amended the Public Finance Act and the Law on Public Finance Discipline. In k.p.a., as I say, we have introduced a mediation institution, and in terms of the discipline of public finances we have put in place conditions giving a sense of security to the body, the reasons on which he can make a deal with the party, not only with the entrepreneur, but also with the party to the dispute. When we wondered whether to maintain this principle of amicable settlement of disputes or not, we were not able to imagine other situations where mediation would be justified, apart from conducting it under the Code of Administrative Procedure. So we figured, since he's a c.p.a. It's exhausting the mediation capacity... Because it is difficult to imagine that mediation will take place as part of this non-formalized procedure, I think that even this is not realistic from the official's point of view. That rule, as a rule itself, wouldn't do much either. That's why we decided that changes in the Public Finance Act, changes in the Public Finance Act and in the Public Finance Discipline Act, i.e. a waiver or extraction just from a decision to violate the discipline of public finances in certain situations... that it exhausts the catalogue of situations in which this mediation can be carried out by an organ with an entrepreneur or, more broadly, with a party being conducted. So that we did not withdraw in a substantive sense, we only withdrew from this one provision in this one law. We just thought it would be unnecessary in the sense that it would just be unnecessary, it would be overregulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u112	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask the question, the question of opinion. Did the Ministry request opinions at the stage of the draft law, which came out of the government, to the National Chamber of Commerce or to the Leviathan, or to the BCC, or to the organization of the Employer of Poland? If it did not turn, I would immediately ask why it did not turn, and if it did, whether these opinions were in writing or were merely oral opinions. And how, in general, do they sound? Is it supported, not supported, are there reservations or are there no objections in these opinions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u113	Mr. Marshal, throughout the legislative process on this government path with all the organizations that you have mentioned, we have been in constant contact. There were comments and there was also support for these projects. That's what I said earlier. It is not enough that the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister for Development even received a letter signed by all employers' organisations within the Council of Social Dialogue so that the government could adopt the business constitution package as soon as possible and address it to Parliament. We have also been in contact with the National Chamber of Commerce, both with Mr Arendarski and 'Cause they were representatives from the National Chamber of Commerce. Ms Agnieszka Durlik and Mr Przemysław Ruchlicki. So as part of our work, we were in constant contact. The National Chamber of Commerce sent its opinion to the session of the Sejm Committee, I think I can say that it is simply positive. So this contact was current.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u114	Thank you very much. Minister, now you're asking Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think you answered my first question because I wanted to ask you about a spokesperson in the States. So I understand that as a government agenda, it's financed by government money? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: From the state budget.]] Yes. But I have two questions. Minister, the issue of this six-month relief. Well, it's a very good relief, the two-year-old... well, here we have six months. The hardest time for employers is always beginnings. Right? Did these six months just happen because you just thought that this was what it was supposed to be, or was it preceded by some analysis from which it came out, that the most difficult period doesn't last a year, but the first six months? I'm interested in where these six months came from. If the Minister could say... And last question, perhaps not so directly related to the bill. Using the Minister's presence, and I am pleased to hear your argument, I would like you to give me an answer. If you'd be kind, please, and if you don't, it's hard. For the following question. How does the Minister estimate such a decline in the desire to invest in Polish entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u116	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u117	Thank you. It's a matter of six months. We looked at the level of survival of companies and it turned out that the most difficult period was the first 2, 3 years. These six months... We're talking about full release, but that doesn't rule out so-called. A small ZUS for 2 years. So it's a total of two and a half years. We also have something like a non-registered activity. If I as Mariusz Haladyj wanted to do business, but I'm afraid I'll find contractors, find money for contributions, etc... This period of non-registered activity is simplified. I can use it on... so that I don't enter the regime even this six-month start-up relief, I'm just looking for customers and I'm getting my first orders. I reach, as I said before, 300, 500, 700, 900, 1 thousand zlotys a month and only then, so to speak, I enter this six-month, six-month ZUS zero, and then this little ZUS. So this period of 2, 3 years, the most difficult period from the point of view of starting business, is thus, I would say, secured. We must also remember the costs, the costs for the budget, of course. This balance between costs and needs must be taken into account. The decline in investment. Before the Seym debate, we expected such questions and looked at the data. In the last quarter of 2017 or generally in 2017... No, this is the fourth quarter of 2017. I don't want to prolong it, but I don't care if I have that data in very detailed detail. That's when these investments start to grow. So there was a time when... This also involved the conclusion of the previous EU perspective and the transition from one perspective to another. At the moment, these private investments are also growing. Of course, we would always like this level to be as high as possible. We can say that we have an increase in investment in comparison to one year to one year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u118	Thank you very much. There are no more questions for you, Minister. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. I'm opening a joint discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[There isn't. It's Władysław Komarnicki now.]] There isn't. Senator Władysław Komarnicki is next. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Today I would like to speak in the first place as an entrepreneur with the experience of decades in this very difficult profession. Let me refer today to more than 1 law, namely to all 5 laws, which consist of so-called. a constitution for business, because at least in their intention they should create a package of complex legal acts. Ladies and gentlemen, I will always be happy and warmly supportive in the work of the Senate of any law which in its intention in practice will support Polish entrepreneurs, primarily national business. Any law that will facilitate the functioning of the market, which will support entrepreneurs, among others. in relations with offices, and finally any law that will facilitate and simplify such a confusing law is worthy of our attention and approval. I think it's an obligation. Us, senators. The direction of these laws, the justification for their formation, is undoubtedly good. Again, I confirm this is the right direction. He's also rational, I'm honest with you. Today, however, the question is: will these quite hastily created laws actually be able to clarify the law and facilitate the functioning of businesses? Minister, I was really very worried about rejecting our amendments yesterday at the Economic Committee meeting. The rush to work on such laws was never advisable. We know how sensitive these laws are and what the consequences of such work may then be. I have a lot of concerns that I would like to share with you today. There is, for example. the issue of spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. I was talking about this when I asked the Minister questions. You didn't exactly convince me, Minister. Why spokespersons only small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and not all entrepreneurs? Why are large businesses already discriminated against at the outset? If it is true that a large entrepreneur is doing well or will do so, then he will not burden the Ombudsman, but if there is a case in which he would like the Ombudsman's support, why are you denying him that right? It should also be remembered that a large entrepreneur in Poland may no longer be so big in the international arena, but we should care about also in order for our companies to operate on the international market, we have been talking about this for a long time. With success. They should feel the support of our government. As far as the various laws are concerned, there are a few minor positive aspects, e.g. simplifying the definition of economic activity. I like it very much, Minister, but I'm telling you honestly, it's just that this simplified definition isn't really going very well. A good idea when it comes to non-registered activities, only a pity that there is such a low threshold - 50%. - 50%? - 50%? minimum wage. That's too low a level. I think, and it's not just me, that so many entrepreneurs I dated before I went to our Senate session, that it should be at least 100%. Perhaps, Minister, we'll get back to that. The principle of liability of officials, unfortunately, I regret to say, does not bring anything new into Polish law. And it would be good if the rules of the constitution for business included also the liability of officials for the damage done, because it hurts the most entrepreneurs. Start-up relief That's an interesting idea. Too bad it's so short. It is also worth considering whether this almost 1 000 pages, these 5 laws, yes, almost 1 000 pages, could not be simplified, coherent, combined so that we could actually talk about our wonderful constitution. Today, the entrepreneur wastes too much time filling out papers, wondering whether he has a responsibility or not. Entrepreneurs are already struggling with a new problem on the market, namely the lack of accountants. I used to hire 2 accountants as an entrepreneur, one accountant was running checks that came after us from different institutions, and the other accountant was normally running the company. Today there are no accountants at all, because they are afraid, they do not want to explain themselves to officials and take responsibility. This is very important. To be honest, today's accountants do not understand what is happening in Polish legislation on economic law. I could tell you, from my own experience, for hours, what a good accountant means in a large company and how easy it is to lose ground because of a wrong official decision. It's touched my companies a lot. At present, European countries are considering the introduction of 1% or 2% a compulsory tax without the cost of obtaining revenue. Why are we forgetting this? Ladies and gentlemen, I consider myself a representative of business environments and active people, as I have been active in economic self-government for 25 years. I will always support those solutions that make life easier for entrepreneurs, and therefore I always look very carefully at such solutions and such legal acts, even by supporting them. But I have a lot of doubts about these laws. Life will show if it will be good changes that will really help Polish entrepreneurs. To conclude, I would like to thank our two senate legislators. I understand your haste, Minister, but if you don't want to implement them, at least take it to heart. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u120	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Act is intended to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs, to implement support for the development of entrepreneurship. The question is whether this is the full answer, whether this is the right answer to these expectations. Well, I'm going to repeat what I said is that this bill doesn't have a breakthrough. To the question I asked the entrepreneurs, what will change in your business???, they answered a lot, almost nothing. Of course it doesn't hurt, she makes some things more coherent, she explains some things, she gives little more, but a little more power, gives some relief to start. In my questions I tried to show that as you look at how many companies start up and how many companies fall, and in a year, you can say that this law will not necessarily give a strong boost to the development of entrepreneurship, and it will certainly not be a great relief to help you stay on the market for longer. Therefore, the use of the word "constitution" in relation to this package is absolutely outrageous, Minister. But well, maybe some of these general regulations are worth noticing and appreciating. However, many of them have been in other laws for a long time, or are enshrined in the Constitution. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we should ask whether an entrepreneur can now take actions that are not prohibited by law. We answer: every citizen can, also an entrepreneur, because it is guaranteed in the Constitution. The only justification for this, which we have, restricting civil rights in such a way as to apply only what is enshrined in the law, concerns the public sector. As we know, it is consummated by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, unfortunately That's what I think. Because this leads to huge casuistics in the process of lawmaking. Other allowances, e.g. checks or concessions are subject to such a large number of reservations, references to other laws in which these powers do not apply, that in fact the various The amendments we want to make are designed to improve this law and give more rights, unambiguous provisions to entrepreneurs whose work is the foundation of economic development and is the foundation of our prosperity. Perhaps the most interesting solution is to appoint a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, because neither this law nor the provisions contained therein. Sorry, Minister. They are not clear enough and do not make such progress that this Ombudsman is not needed. He's gonna need it, just like this information point, because we're really replacing one maze with another. And to move in such a way as not to jeopardize your business, it will still not be easy in Poland. That's not my opinion, that's the business opinion. The Ombudsman could help with this, especially when the situation is at issue. . and should be supported as much as possible. But it seems to me, and I agree here with Senator Komarnicki that these powers belong to all entrepreneurs. We talk at a very special moment, cases concerning large companies that took part in privatisation are being dug up. And you could say this: we never had the Ombudsman, the citizens, as needed now. And I think there's a time coming when, as never before, entrepreneurs No matter what size they are. A spokesman will be needed to protect their rights. As Senator Komarnicki said I agree with his argument. If the big guys do it, they won't bother the spokesperson, and if they don't do it, then they need the spokesperson. That is why we are asking that the Ombudsman's institution should include all entrepreneurs, so that none of the possibilities of its operation can be eliminated. The more effective the Ombudsman will be, the more clearly his powers are expressed, there are a lot of them here and they are very important, but there is a bit more to be done here. And it will be effective primarily when its position is strong enough. These senators are right, who say that we already have a lot of different resort spokespersons. And it is because they are resorts that these spokesmen are more civil servants than independent institutions. In fact, we know little about them, and the results of their actions are even less. I'm looking at the Minister here... We also have a patient's attorney. Every day I get in the mailbox information that patients' rights are not fully guaranteed. This information is mainly from those standing in the S.R. in some nightmare queues to the easiest study. Do we see here... This is just one example. It's not the only thing I want to focus on. Does the existence of a spokesman radically, clearly change our situation in this area? I fear that if they are dependent on ministries, depending on ministers, they will not take up certain matters, especially difficult and uncomfortable ones, and that they will not act radically when they are threatened to expose themselves to offices that are subject to the same government. Therefore, I think that if your intentions are sincere, such as to strengthen the position of entrepreneurs towards the offices in disputes... What could harm our proposal here, Minister? You can either agree or disagree that that's enough. I disagree. And I ask, what harm would it do if the spokesperson were fixed differently, stronger, as we propose? Is there any way anyone could have suffered any damage? No. There would be more benefits that you claim to be seeking. That is why I think the amendments we are making here are extremely important. We also want an extension of the runway you're talking about. Business is tough. Unfortunately, many may not even reach the end of the runway. Therefore, it seems to me that the time at which reliefs apply should be longer and that the records should also cover the health contribution. These people will be insured, and the loss to the health budget is... That's where every penny counts, okay? But let me remind you that this bill reduces revenue to the FUS, where there's a hole in billions. As far as I know, there's no such a hole in the NFZ. I would ask for a friendly approach to our amendments. Some of them concern the law-making process. The Civic Platform has prepared comprehensive solutions. We would accept your proposals as a sucursive for our pursuits, but I think that what we are proposing is a much clearer solution. First of all, we propose that the impact be on laws that can have an important impact on entrepreneurs, not just the so-called ones. economic laws. I'm looking at the minister again because he's looking at me. Now I can think of an example of pharmaceutical law. Recently, many entrepreneurs were shocked because the right to run pharmacies was limited by a completely different law. We're proposing a slightly different solution. Coming in the same direction, but a little different. That's what I'm talking about. 66 show what matters are to be dealt with under Chapter 6 of the Act, namely the obligation to assess the impact and the relevant consultation of legal acts. This kind of construction seems happier to me, because it prevents situations where you could, let's call it, touch without an appropriate impact assessment of large groups of entrepreneurs just because someone considers that it is not a strict law. economics, only on other issues. I think our solution is better. Mr. Minister, Mr. Marshal, I'm putting together a whole package of amendments that completes the vacathio legis amendment. The Minister himself admitted that, in terms of deregulation, the government does not see the field to act and gives up. Well, yeah, I'd interpret that. Indeed, as you look at this introductory law, it is evident that in few places such a provision and such a provision is repealed. In general, one rule is replaced by another. Since this law will continue to be complicated and acts derived from it will also be so, and the best evidence is their extensiveness, we believe that entrepreneurs should have a little longer time to learn how to turn in these laws. The Minister said here that there was pressure to adopt this bill as soon as possible. Therefore, this proposal does not go far. I think that's the minimum. If this law were to enter into force 3 months after its publication, it would, in my opinion, be an absolute minimum time to prepare for the implementation of these provisions for the mass of the companies concerned. It's not like there are proper servants everywhere. We talked about the fact that it applies to many small and medium-sized companies, which is why I think that time is absolutely minimal and necessary. I'm making this set of amendments in the hope that we'll find another moment to look at them. There's only one of them I'd like to mention, Minister. However, I was not fully convinced by your response to the limitation of the right to minimum income when it comes to former entrepreneurs. I agree with you. That's what I asked. The law could be used for a bad purpose, but it seems to me that this provision is absolutely too far-reaching. After all, he speaks, Minister, not of those who do business, but of those who used to do business. Well, he's referring to this situation, so I think this limitation should stay with the article. Five eliminated. At a different level, you should look for safeguards against possible fraud, especially since, as Minister said, we explained this to ourselves during the committee meeting, the rules that give us the opportunity to control the income generated, exist in the VAT Act, and so it is not that we just let ourselves go. There is a duty to record and it is a duty to control, therefore no group of citizens No matter what they did before. It should not be excluded from the benefits of this provision. Mr. Marshal, I'm making these amendments. One second, 'cause I think I'm gonna have to sign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u122	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For some, it may be surprising that I asked to speak in this discussion, but like Senator Komarnicki, who said that he felt like a representative of entrepreneurs, I would like to say, because perhaps not everyone knows that I was also an entrepreneur for more than 20 years, and I have had quite a lot of experience in this area, unfortunately, often very bad experiences, especially as regards the area of various obstacles that do not serve... well, they simply do not serve anything. It is quite interesting how much in the speeches and my previous speaker, and a few people who have asked questions before, was that the package we are discussing today is not a constitution, because it does not deserve such a high term that there is no breakthrough in this, but at the same time it is a request to postpone the entry into force of these laws, and it is one with the other a little conflict. But it's not about words, it's not about making something a breakthrough, it's about making it move us in the right direction. I think that when it comes to entrepreneurship regulations, it is quite obvious that we are moving between two extremes: complete regulation and lack of regulation. Neither is a good solution. So it is about stimulating entrepreneurship that this zipper, which defines where we are, simply moves in the right direction. And that's what this package seems to be doing. I am a strong supporter of many solutions which are proposed both in the main act and in the additional ones. There was a lot of talk about the spokesperson for small entrepreneurs. Well, it seems that this is a solution that is simply a world solution. And this rhetoric, saying that all entrepreneurs, including the biggest ones, need a spokesperson, is simply not reflected in solutions in those countries where entrepreneurship is developing well. When it comes to a country that we seem to be looking at most in terms of entrepreneurship, the United States, there is a spokesperson for small entrepreneurship, that is his name, he is part of an administration that is also called the Small Business Administration, you can say, the Ministry of Small Business, directly dependent on the President. I will remind you that the government is shaping the President there, and therefore only one intermediary is involved in the appointment of this Ombudsman, i.e. The President decides who is the head of the administration for small entrepreneurship, and this administrator, the head of this ministry, so to speak, appoints a spokesman. And such a solution is good, it works well and is mimicked in different countries where the spokespersons of small entrepreneurship function. So it seems that this solution is not only correct, but logical, because it is the small entrepreneurship that needs some support. I would also like to make a very brief reference to the idea of various reliefs and to proposals in this respect from the Senators of the Civic Platform. Certainly, I would say saving your health contribution is appropriate here. You should be aware of the health contribution. Health contribution is not some kind of tax, it is, you can say, a lump sum fee for the benefits you use for benefits that are material in nature. This is completely different from social security contributions, this is a completely different type of contribution, so it seems to be a logical solution. At the same time, the bidding, who's on the bigger side, health care or social security, doesn't seem to make sense anymore. But I repeat once again: the nature of the health contribution is that it would be unfair if others insured in the National Health Fund from their health contributions financed a relief for the development of the entrepreneurship of those who start in business. So this solution, I think, is very good. And finally, it's only a matter of time before these solutions come in. We seem to be in a very special moment. We want to do something, not talk about it being done someday. Therefore, it seems that not only the work on the package as a whole, but also the moment of entry into force of these provisions must be speeded up as much as possible. I therefore believe that it is important not to postpone the entry into force of those provisions which, hopefully, will at least stimulate entrepreneurship to some extent, especially those who are starting in business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u124	Thank you, Mr... [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, yes.]] Yes? Good. Thank you, Senator. [[And Rulewski.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski? [[Yes.]] For discussion? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal. Are you asking if you'll allow it?]] I'm asking because I don't see... Is it registered? [[Yes.]] [[I volunteered.]] Good. Then I call on Senator Rulewski to discuss it. [[Are you calling me, Mr. Marshal? Yes, Mr. Marshal?]] When you signed up, Mr. Senator, speak up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I forgive you for this little gesture, perhaps because we live in the atmosphere of Valentine's Day. And it's not just a rhetorical expression, because... [[It's ash Wednesday.]] I'll take that. I accept. And I'm also going to talk about ash Wednesday, not just to meet your requirements, Senator. Well, the Valentine's atmosphere is given to me when I read the Act on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, i.e. such a gift for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on the occasion of Valentine's Day. The announcements of the Prime Minister, and earlier the Deputy Prime Minister, concerned the need to improve or improve the entrepreneurial spirit and create a constitution of entrepreneurs, and it turns out that the real symbol of this is the creation of a new office. Earlier, I expressed my conviction that this was a false way. You should sprinkle your heads with ash before you propose a bill like this. The Seym or, like now, which I already find appalling, the High House of the Senate. Why? The constitution and the institutions and derivatives of the constitution, i.e. the laws, are sufficiently protective or should protect small and small entrepreneurship. The medicine that protects the interests of small, medium and large entrepreneurs is not the appointment of another office, even though we are duplicated by the administration. Although the spokesperson sounds nice, this is in total an administration, because he has the right to various kinds of speeches and decisions. We in Poland have these spokespersons, as I have counted, already eleven. And you can accept... Let's mention here, among other things. on the Ombudsman, the child In addition, it is enshrined in the Constitution. A patient, a student's rights. I'm not gonna talk about a government spokesperson because he's gonna defend himself. Come on, there's a spokesperson in the army because there are no parties and trade unions there. You could even parody in a Valentine's spirit. If there's going to be a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, I ask: where's the spokesperson for employees? And with the rights of workers for years, as I have been in this House, ladies and gentlemen on the right and left, it is not very good, as the latest information shows. [[Trade unions...]] Yeah, that's right, Mr... I can see that... thank you, sir, for broadcasting together. I think we're going to vote the same way, which is against this bill, for dismissing this law at all. An employee spokesperson or an employee's rights spokesperson is, of course, nonsense, because such an institution, regardless of the state of the law... Rather, let's improve this law and improve its respect for it even more so that there is no such story as the one that happened recently, with a bench and a Ukrainian on it. Let us improve, not create new institutions that will cost the Polish state. The second thing is to create illusions, such thinking: if something is wrong, then let's create an office. And creating illusions within the environment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs... After all, they have corporate rights to create institutions and create these institutions, and they're on a trilateral committee, and they're on a forum, they can perform... If they don't do it, no clerk will do it for them, and if they do, it's not good. Although my view of the work of officials is not as tragic as that of some, say, the media. Third case. Well, let's face it, ladies and gentlemen, self-critically, Minister, I'm looking at you... Any discussion here about the Ombudsman's reports or his budget, what's going on? They always say he doesn't have money, he can't do his job, so he's practically paralyzed. What's more, another question: if there's a spokesperson already And maybe that's the most important thing. It's always the kind of person who defends an individual. We're talking about an ombudsman who defends an individual and its rights, not corporate rights, not institutional rights, not corporate rights. They have a duty to defend themselves. either by law, by law, or by means of association. An ordinary citizen who's affected by a violation of his rights or a patient... It could be assumed that he really should have such a spokesperson. Here's another thing. When you read the press... citizens, when they complain, then, please note, write letters of the same content, complaints in general, requests to speak to several institutions. And this is for the Prime Minister, and this is for the Minister, for the Seym, for the Senate, for the media, for the President. And that's what's causing this kind of distraction in terms of what I'm going to say, the victim of the injury. As I understand it, there's also an injury that can affect an entrepreneur. Furthermore, entrepreneurship is not a catalogued institution, in the sense of human rights or patient rights, which is precisely addressed. Entrepreneurship is a kind of behavior, a type of activity with different forms and widths that... But by the way, I'm gonna ask the Minister. There's talk of a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And who are you shutting down right now? Big businessmen. So where are they gonna turn in front of the fact that 20 and 30 years ago... that you're rewinding privatisation agreements if they don't have access to this spokesperson? This isn't the way. Let us pour, as the senator calls me here, the heads are ashes and just let the government ask for the rejection of this law in its entirety, so that it will spare us, as Senator Czarnobaj said, 18 million PLN and create a republic of advocates and Soviet councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u126	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voice from the O.R.: Up to point three...]] For the record, Senator Kleina made his speech in the minutes... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a legislative proposal.]] Or a speech for protocol? [[Voice from the Chamber: Legislative proposal.]] I'm sorry. So Senator Kazimierz Klein didn't give his speech to the record. He submitted a legislative proposal to point three of the Ombudsman Act. Who else made it? [[Mieczysław Augustyn.]] [[Me.]] Senator Augustyn has submitted a whole range of proposals to the laws: to the Law of Entrepreneurs, to the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs and to the Law of the Law of the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activities. [[I confirm in writing what I have applied for orally, and I have applied for the rejection of the Ombudsman's bill.]] Senator Rulewski filed a motion to reject the Ombudsman's bill. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I think the discussion was extensive.]] Thank you, Minister. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the Act on the Law of Entrepreneurs, the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs and the Law on the Law on the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws on business, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the submitted proposals and to present a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the joint examination of item 7 and item 8 of the agenda: the Marshal's Guard Act and the Law The texts of the laws are contained in prints 720 and 721, and the Commission's reports In prints No 720 A and 721 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report of the committee on the Marshal's Guard Act and the Law on Marshal's Guard. I see the senator's already in the podium. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It has been my honour to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions, the report on 2 laws, the Marshal's Guard Act and the Law on the Marshal's Guard. The meeting of the committee took place on 6 February 2018. The laws at the meeting of the joint committees were examined jointly. A single opinion was also prepared by the Senate Legislative Office on these laws. As far as the purpose of the Marshal's Guard Act is concerned, it defines in a systematic and comprehensive manner the state position and competence of the Marshal's Guard as a specialized, armed and uniformed formation providing protection for the Sejm and Senate. The tasks of the Marshal's Guard, the powers of employees, i.e. the guards of the Marshal's Guard, during the performance of these tasks, the organisational subordinates of the Marshal's Guard, as well as the qualification requirements and rules of the qualification procedure for candidates for Marshal's Guards have so far been defined by the provisions of the Law on the Office for Government Protection and were included in Chapter 11 of this Act Years of experience, 16 years of experience during the period of this law, showed that it is necessary to develop modern methods and regulations in the rank of the law, which will comprehensively regulate the legal status of the Marshal's Guard. As set out in the explanatory memorandum annexed to the project, the Marshal's Guard Act is modelled on the practical solutions contained in the Government Protection Office Act, the Central Anti-corruption Office Act, as well as other laws governing the service relationship of police officers, Border Guards and State Fire Department. With regard to the law, the adoption of this law, and in principle of the standards included in it, taking into account the specific features of the protection of the Sejm and the Senate, will exclude the need to eat up the legal arrangements for other services, in particular as regards establishing, resolving and stopping service relations, as well as the duties and powers of officers. In relation to current solutions due to the real increase of threats, the scope of tasks of the Marshal's Guard will be significantly expanded. The most important changes to the current legal situation concern the extension of the Marshal's Guard's competence to carry out the task of conducting the pyrotechnical and radiological diagnosis of persons, vehicles, areas and objects of the Sejm and the Senate, taking action to neutralize threats and detect listening devices in areas, facilities and devices on the Board of the Sejm Chancellery and on the Board of the Senate Chancellery. In particular, the Act sets out: tasks and organisation of the Marshal's Guard as formation; powers of officers in the performance of their duties; requirements for applicants for admission to the service; qualification procedures; time to perform their duties; time to carry out their duties and the assessment of officers, optional and compulsory grounds for dismissals; degrees in the Marshal's Guard, rules for appointment to further degrees in the guard, as well as the grounds for lowering them; rights and duties of officers; specific issues relating to salaries, other benefits and non-payments of officers; rules of disciplinary responsibility of officers of the Marshal' Guard. With regard to the Law on the Marshal's Guard, it is directly related to the adoption of the Law on the Marshal's Guard. The Act consists of 3 chapters and 47 articles, contains provisions on the entry into force of the Marshal's Guard Act, provisions amending 37 laws resulting from the adoption of provisions of the Marshal's Guard Act, as well as transitional provisions, adapting and final provisions concerning the entry into force of the Act. The Act contains provisions that integrate with the national law system introduced by the Marshal's Guard Act regulations concerning the powers of officers and employees of the Marshal's Guard. [[Voice from the room: Good morning. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.]] Good morning. As regards the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, it contains a description of the progress of the Parliament's work on both of these laws. You have the senators in the materials. Maybe I'll let myself not quote it. Both laws were passed at the Fifty-seventh meeting of the Sejm on 26 January 2018. As regards the detailed comments of the Legislative Office to the Marshal's Guard Act, in principle 3 issues were raised by the Legislative Office. The Senate law firm, which was raised by the legislator in charge of the bill, participated in the work of the Sejm committee for the law. Therefore, there are only three amendments, perhaps rather suggestions, not amendments, because other issues have been addressed in the course of the Parliament's work. The Legal Office's comments concern Article. 42 and Article 42 60 of the Marshal's Guard Act and raise the issue of admission to service in the Marshal's Guard of people who are so far officers of other uniformed services, this is precisely the issue of regulations concerning customs officers. Already during the committee meeting, a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration indicated that not only the Customs Service is in this act, so to speak, in some way limited. This is mainly about the transfer of service degrees and the recognition of service degrees of Customs officers in case of transition to the Marshal's Guard. Such services, which are also not included in this law, are among others. Railroad and Forest Service. They're uniforms, too. The justification of the MSWiA was also that the Marszałkowska Guard is a very specific service, so to speak, a small number of officers and in case of transition. a customs officer, given the specifics of the work of Customs officers, to the Marshal's Guard... This is the wrong scale of activity. In this case, the law in principle works in two directions, i.e. a Marshal's Service officer moving e.g. to the Customs Service as an officer in the case of the management of a dozen-member team would have to perform e.g. the function of chief of voivodship in KAS, i.e. fiscal administration. Here was such a justification that it was a deliberate record. But the explanations of the MMA were also such that, in fact, Customs officers do not have closed doors and they too, if they meet the selection criteria, which are quite detailed in the bill, will have a chance to move to the new service, the Marshal's Guard. As far as the second point is concerned, it concerns the issue of reducing the officer's rights to the annual prize. This is about how we proceed, how we proceed during disciplinary proceedings. This comment has also been clarified by the representative of the MMSWiA, namely another piece of legislation that regulates the situation of uniformed officers, and the solutions proposed in previous legal acts that have been processed are aimed at ensuring that these solutions are sufficiently unified, and they exhaust... This disciplinary punishment can be prosecuted... proceding, as far as the system of disciplinary penalties is concerned, can be regulated in a different way. Here representatives of the MSWiA pointed out that during the work of the commission on the Law on the Marshal's Guard in the Sejm there was already an amendment of the Law on Police and at this stage of the process of the Law on Police it is possible to introduce such solutions. The third last point concerns the question of reopening disciplinary proceedings and contradictions related to the added paragraph at the seymical stage. Article 5 and Article 6 138. The Legal Office raised doubts that this might not be considered in favour of the officers, on the one hand, in the event of the resumption of proceedings at all times, and that, once disciplinary misconduct has ceased, it would be to the detriment of the punished... From the MSWiA, this is explained as follows, that these are solutions that function in relation to other services and that, so to speak, it would not be advisable to regulate it differently in this law than it is regulated in other laws. As far as the committee's proceedings are concerned, many questions have been raised, but only part of them, a small part of them, concerned the matter of the bill. The course of the committee's meeting was in fact dominated by attempts to change the existing legislation concerning customs officers. At the meeting of the committee there was a representative of the trade unions of Customs officers. Responses from the representative of the committee This is a draft of the Parliamentary Committee, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which was... Her representative, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, and representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration responded to these doubts. I'm sure the Minister will be quite wide-ranging about what this bill is for. She's supposed to expand the field of competence of the Marshal's Guard. It is about building a model for other European Parliaments who manage their own security and security on their own. A formation that will ensure full security for parliamentarians and for those who, so to speak, are guests in the area of the Sejm and the Senate. This professionalization will consist, among others. to equip Marshal's Guard officers with the tools necessary to carry out extended tasks. It is about expanding competences, among others. the possibility of carrying out pyrotechnic checks, the legitimacy of persons entering the territory of the Sejm and the Senate, or even of stopping them and carrying out personal checks. Officer of the Marshal's Guard, like the other officers of the uniform, will be entitled Of course it's the area of the Sejm and the Senate. For the use of direct coercion measures. The Marszałkowska Guard under this law will not have the power to conduct operational and investigative activities. I'll try to get closer to the further powers of the Marshal's Guard officers... Oh, they're gonna be entitled to a pension supply of uniformed officers. It's going to be a pension policy, so to speak, with the standards of police officers, fire department. There were a lot of questions during the committee meeting. I'm gonna try to get a few of these points closer to you. Senator Rulewski asked, suggested that there was some regulatory overregulation concerning working conditions, but also salaries, components of the Marshal's Guard's salary. Well, as far as Senator Rulewski's assessment is concerned, she did not agree with the Legislative Office or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who found that such a form of solution was proposed by Senator Rulewski in this regard, not the one proposed by Senator Rulewski. In the form of remuneration rules, it is a much more stable form and a form that should be used in the case of officers. Senator Rulewski also drew attention to the article. 17th Marshal's Guard Act. This article... In total, I also asked about the possibility of entering... or supporting the Marshal's Guard by the police and the State Security Service, the former Office of Government Protection. This statutory record has remained unchanged. MSWiA convincingly justified that the need for a moment could be such that a narrow group of officers In the next two years, it will eventually increase by about 100 people, 100 jobs may not meet the challenges. There may be situations where they won't meet the challenges and they just won't be able to protect in some extreme cases... In addition, the reasons for the argument on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were that, in fact, the possible entry of the additional services, i.e. the Police or the State Protection Service, in order to assist the Marshal's Guard can only be made at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm, and the President of the Council of Ministers makes such a decision. And it's a regulation that's necessary in the statutory records. I'm just gonna try and get you some information. British daily The Telegraph has reported on a secret security test of the House of Parliament in London, which has shown that Members are exposed, for example. at the risk of a terrorist attack, including a situation where they could become hostages. Well, we have times like this, that danger situations are often very sudden and unpredictable. Therefore, this possible support of the Marshal's Guard by other services must be possible. As a rule, the entire area of the Sejm and Senate, buildings and adjacent areas of the Sejm and Senate Office will be protected exclusively by the Marshal's Guard. But it's going to be too. In view of the need to build this service, so to speak, to hire additional officers, to train them, to equip them with equipment The State Protection Officers will assist and continue to work here within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. These 12 months will be a transitional period when Marshals' Guard officers acquire competence, train and then take over these tasks from the State Security Service. As regards further questions concerning the subject matter of the Act, I asked the question about funds to equip Marshal's Guard officers with funds to increase the number of posts. And I just got word from the MMA that such measures have already been secured. In terms of equipment resources, among others. for arms, uniforms and equipment This is 1 million zloty. MSWiA also pointed out that in comparison with other formations, e.g. with the police, in the case of the Marshal's Guard, the use of this type of equipment or uniform is much less due to the different peculiarities of the service. This equipment must be, but it will be purchased, so to speak, for many years. As regards the further questions that were raised at the committee meeting, Senator Wcisła asked about the Customs Service and about this recruitment, the possibility of recruitment, art. 42 and Article 42 68 laws. And, as I mentioned earlier, an MMA representative pointed out that not only the Customs Service, but also the other services were not listed directly in the catalogue when it came to taking over those... about moving from service to service with a service degree. However, the MSWiA also pointed out that such regulations correspond with other legal acts, with rules concerning other formations, e.g. Police. There's no Customs Service in the catalogue either. Senator Wcistła has tabled at the committee's meeting 2 amendments to the Introductory Law... These amendments concerned the pension rights of Customs officers. Given the scope of the proposed amendments and the need to amend other legal acts in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, but not only in the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these amendments were not intended. At the committee meeting, 2 proposals were submitted for both laws. As I mentioned earlier, Senator Wcisła has tabled amendments which have not been accepted. I have tabled 2 formal proposals for the adoption of a law without amendments, which have been accepted by the joint committees, 9:3 in a vote, both of them... One more thing I left out, I'm sorry. Senator Zbigniew Cichoń drew attention to the article. 122 laws. There's a deadline to file a complaint, if I remember correctly. He's written in a different form, so to speak, than the one in civil law. However, the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also pointed out that this is a provision which corresponds to other regulations concerning the disciplinary matters of other uniforms, uniform services, and therefore this is a special treatment. As I mentioned at the beginning, the meeting was attended by a representative of the trade union of customs officers who had the opportunity to pass on and comment... The statement of the head of the trade union of customs officers concerned only the issue of the inclusion of a group of customs officers with the same pension rights as police officers and Border Guards or fire department. However, these regulations are included in the Act amending the Act on pension provision of officials adopted on 11 May 2017. Therefore, these amendments are not justified in the assessment and in the Legislative Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If there are questions, and I think the questions will come up. I'm going to develop this thread about Customs officers, who aren't really that kind of thing... The purpose of this law is not to regulate the pension rights of these officers. As a result, the committee's position is so... I ask for both of these laws to be adopted without amendments, as in the committee's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u128	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Florek reporting. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I would like you to say in a few sentences, as was justified at the committee meeting by the appointment of this new service of the Marshal's Guard with extended privileges. What happened recently... Why has such action been taken that such a service with privileges, of course, will now be called upon? If you could just say a few words about what was the specific justification for this service... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u130	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, well, above all, the historical drawing of the Marshal's Guard. It has existed since the 16th century and its continuous functioning, protecting the buildings of the Sejm and the Senate... As I recall, at the committee meeting, a representative of the Parliamentary Committee, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, pointed out that these were solutions that function in many European countries, in developed parliamentary democracies. It is there that internal security services secure the whole territory of European Parliaments. And that's the main reason. Besides, there is also the issue of professionalization of the Marshal's Guard, i.e. taking over these tasks, these competences. Of course on the grounds of the Sejm and Senate buildings, in the areas of the Sejm and the Senate It was previously owned by BOR and currently operates the State Protection Service. Well, that's the justification, if that's enough. If I remember correctly, it wasn't specifically justified. It's a committee project, a parliament project, worked out through compromise, because these committee meetings, midwayers, were quite a lot, and I'm sure that, as I'm going to say, the comments that the opposition was making. A major part of these comments They've been taken into account, though not all of them. In detail, like I said... In the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, it describes what amendments were made, what amendments were accepted at committee meetings and what were not. So, if you don't mind, I won't repeat what's already in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u132	Thank you, Senator. I have questions for you. What costs, additional costs, will this bill generate? That's my first question. Who's the person protected under this bill? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 2 is said to be protected persons. And a third question for you. Will the possibility of collecting and processing the data of this new Marshal's Guard as a police institution also apply to the collection and collection of data about Members and Senators, or is it excluded from the competence of this new Marshal's Guard? I have three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u133	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, about your first question, I mean. It's about who the person is... [[No, no, the first one was about the costs. As long as they're...]] About the costs. About the cost... Well, when it comes to costs, I asked that question myself. It will be, so to speak, implemented within the budget of the Sejm Chancellery. The call will continue... [[No, I asked if...]] It's hard... [[I asked you what the cost increase would be.]] It's hard to tell what the target model is going to be. At the committee meeting, Mr Marshal, it was pointed out that employment was planned to be increased by around 100 jobs over a period of two years. And what will be the actual increase in employment? I have been quite detailed with this law, and I know that the procedures for qualifying for service are quite complicated and probably quite long-lasting. So to speak, the sieve will be quite large, so that I do not know how many officers will meet the qualification requirements and what this actual recruitment will be. The target costs were not mentioned, but I think Minister Jarosław Zieliński will be able to answer that question here, Mr Marshal. As far as the protected person is concerned, those protected will be parliamentarians protected in this area, but also outsiders. Well, such a function is currently performed by the Marshal's Guard. Nothing big is going to happen here except to increase the powers of legitimacy, to check, that's what the guards are doing right now. Checking your bags... This is, of course, subject to certain regulations. Guardian of the Marshal's Guard, as well as police officers, must state the degree of service and legal basis of this, by doing a search and, in extreme cases, by arresting the person who will, so to speak, pose a threat. As I recall, it is still stated that, in the event of detention, this person is immediately transferred to the appropriate local police unit. About the third question... Mr. Marshal, remind me what it was about. [[Data collection.]] There was no talk about it at the committee meeting, but I don't think that's an agreement. It's about the materials... In general, Mr. Marshal, it is difficult for me to refer to this, because if there are materials... All the parliamentarians know there's surveillance here all the time. Surveillance records are so to speak, archived and probably kept for a while. There are parliamentarians on the security footage. This is data storage, because this record is data, Mr. Marshal. [[Vice-Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz: Yes...]] You mean external data, collected... [[No. I'm talking about data acquisition based on art. 4.]] There was no such question at the committee meeting, Mr. Marshal. There was talk of a period of detention, storage... [[Five years.]] Yeah, it's supposed to be five years old. That's what I remember. [[I will ask such questions to the Minister.]] I don't think that was the question at the committee meeting. There was no mention of that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u134	Senator Grodzki. [[I...]] I'm sorry. I see Senator Rybicki is protesting. The first one was Senator Vistula and then Senators Rybicki, Grodzki and Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u135	Senator, in your report you spoke about the fact that Marshal's Guard officers will have special pension rights after 15 years of service, because other uniform officers have such powers. Please tell me whether the committee was discussing this or, for example, whether there was a discussion at the committee's meeting. The Border Guard officer has some special working conditions, heavy, stressful, destructive organism, which would justify the principles under which such officer obtains special pension rights. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u136	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as did I at the committee meeting. As I recall, there was no specific working conditions for police officers, Marshal's Guard, Border Guard or State Fire Department. There was no discussion about it, so I think you know the answer. This was not discussed. That's not the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u138	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask if the committee's meeting was a sensitive subject, but, in my opinion, a significant and important one, namely the relation and competence of the Marshal's Guard towards the senators. We live in a kind of symbiosis, but we know that in the past, in the history of the Polish Parliament, there has been a situation in which the Marszałkowska Guards intervened and violated the privilege of parliamentary immunity enshrined in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator, using direct violence against Members. I would like to ask whether this subject matter was the subject of the committee's deliberations. It is also constitutional in nature, and it concerns not only this law. Of course, there can be no such provision in this law, because it would not be legitimate. But was the subject of the committee's discussion on each of us?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u140	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, this was not the subject of the committee. The matter of the law shows that the Marshal's Guard is responsible, among others. ensure the security of parliamentarians. In the situation, I began to wonder now. In which e.g. The behaviour of one of the parliamentarians is so inappropriate that it threatens other parliamentarians, their health, their life or their safety... I do not know what rules are to be followed in such a situation by the Marshal's Guard. Is it supposed to protect, so to speak, physical immunity, e.g. one of the parliamentarians, violating the physical integrity of another parliamentarians? It could be theoretically that way, couldn't it? This was not the subject of a committee meeting. And the powers of the Marshal's Guard... There is no such competence of the Marshal's Guard when it comes to violating the integrity of parliamentarians. Yeah, well...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u141	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u142	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Senator, the Marshal's Guard has had traditions not only since 2001, since the current law has been in force, but much, much longer. And for me, it's a bit of a fight, because it's like creating a new specialized police service or a special service, and the Marshal's Guard... It's kind of like taking the pope away from the Swiss Guard and mixing it with the police of the Italian state. That's why I have a question about the details, the retail issues. Because right now these tasks are separated. Who else deals with pyrotechnics, who else deals with control on gates, etc. Is training this new formation Because let's not be deluded, is the creation of a new special service was discussed? Because it will require a completely different approach, completely different training, completely different training algorithm. Isn't that gonna cause chaos?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u144	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, let me... I am very glad that at the outset you pointed out this historical feature, that it has not existed since 2001. Here I have in the material which I have allowed myself to prepare, it says that Marcin Kromer mentioned the Marshal's Guard in 1578. But I would also like to draw attention to the competence of the Marshal's Guard. They were different historically. And now to the senator, for example. I will point out that in the 17th, 18th century, the primary task of the Marshal's Guard, which was to ensure order and security at the place of the king's residence, was extended to the exercise of police authority throughout Warsaw: because of the rapid development of the city for traveling at night large suburbs and covering every time of security, the military commission every six months two light flags under the command of the Marshal's staff should ordain and surrender. It's 1776. As far as chaos is concerned, it was during the report that I pointed out that chaos would not be due to the fact that, yes, the training of the Marshal's Guard would be a long process... As you have pointed out, Senator, the selection criteria will be completely unified with the selection criteria for police service, let's say. This is the first element that will cause the officers of the Marshal's Guard to be, so to speak, already at the stage of admission to the Marshal's Guard at the appropriate level, with the appropriate level of education, qualifications, health status, physical condition. That's the first element. In addition, there is the second element that I mentioned, a period of 12 months, when representatives or officials of the former BOR will be fluently present, and the SOP will continue to work in the Sejm and will, as a rule, train and training officers of the Marshal's Guard. They will be support services and therefore there will be no chaos. What about competence? The competences are extended. And it's not strictly service. police, because this is a service that will protect, whose task will be to protect and secure order and security in the Seym area. And as I mentioned before, these are the historical services that always here this function... I can't tell you, Senator, now something you haven't asked me, an answer to a question since which year, for example. The Office of Government Protection is assisted by the Marshal's Guard. I can't say that. I think the Minister will be able to zoom in when he does. But this is the situation that the Sejm and the Senate have always been protected only by the Marshal's Guard. But circumstances that change require... We know very well that such reforms are being carried out every few decades. And this is the moment when we change the face of the Marshal's Guard. We're going to have a new Marshal's Guard. . about other competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u145	Mr. Senator would like to ask you a question? This is Senator Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u146	Mr. Senator, the grounds for the appointment of the Marshal's Guard... You've already referred to 1585... [[Eight.]] In 1588 even. We know the story, and we know what it looked like. None of us are questioning... The Marshal's Guard was, is and will be There's no doubt about it. I mean these new tasks and privileges that are related to it. A colleague has just raised the question of pyro-radiological diagnosis. Well, that's a very difficult subject. For this you need specialists, you need training, etc. And it turns out that the guards are trained enough to do so. This change also shows that when it comes to pension privileges, the guards will be treated just like the police, like the special forces, like the fire department. The guards will have these privileges, so that another group of people will have them. Have you compared the police, the fire department? It's a job with a life-threatening... Here we are talking about the Marshal's Guard, who, in the event of... the Marshal, will still have the opportunity to ask for police support. I would like to point out here that the appointment of another service of such privileges... A few hundred firefighters and a few hundred cops have recently left for uniform pensions at the age of 50, which someone has to pay for. We're creating another service that will have such privileges. It doesn't seem to me that the Marshal's Guard... I don't feel threatened. I've been in the Senate for two years, and I don't feel like walking in the hallways, threatened. I don't think there's any need for a special, armed marshal service in this area. The question concerns these threats. Did you discuss them, talk about them? Have you considered the other privileges that will arise? Is this threat so serious that we should call such a Marshal's Guard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u147	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, there was no attempt to compare uniformed services, officers and their work in the committee's discussion. Well, there's the Military Police, there's the Police, there's the Border Guard. I think it's hard to compare their tasks, the level of the firefighter's life and the level of the threat of life, e.g. Officer of the Border Guard. I wouldn't do that. This was not the subject of a committee meeting. Specs, another group entitled to uniform pensions, earlier. Yeah, except it's a 100-person group. Mr. Senator, this is a 100-person group that will have powers in the Sejm like the police. They will de facto act as such police, they will be able to stop, etc. Out of context... You used the phrase "armed." Currently the Marshal's Guard is also armed. As far as the right to hold firearms is concerned, Marshals' Guard officers have such powers now. They were, so to speak, renewed in the bill. You feel safe... Well, we all feel safe in the Senate and the Seym, in Parliament. But I don't think it's like we're feeling safe because the servants aren't watching. It is precisely because the services are watching that checks are being carried out, that there is constant supervision by the relevant services, monitoring, that we can feel safe. In the beginning I do not know if you were in the Chamber at the time, I recalled the example of the British Parliament, which in the so-called. stress tests, such as terrorism, came out really bad. There are different threats and there may be different situations. As I said at the beginning, this is a bill not for a year, not for two years, not for five years, but for a few decades. It is unknown what threats the Polish Parliament will face in the years, several dozens and dozens of years. So we are transforming the Marshal's Guard, we are professionalizing this service. And yes, they will be in a group of officers entitled to early retirement, uniform pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u149	Senator Shark has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to say I'm not afraid of anything either. I'm a senator for the third term, and luckily, only once did the police show up. I hope this was the first and last time, because it was neither a police duty nor a situation required it. But to the point. It is said in point 7, that it will be possible to control persons entering, manual control or... And here, in lithium. d, is listed checking with the use of service dogs. I don't understand. Are you still planning on bringing your dogs here? If the Marshal's Guard comes here with the dogs, I won't feel safer. And in the mouth. 5 the persons covered in the cases referred to in paragraph 5 are referred to. Point 1 (3) and taken from the person covered by the arms and objects referred to in Article. Section 15 (2) shall be communicated without delay to the competent police organizational unit. Which unit is appropriate in this area? I guess that's easy to settle right away. And there's an article about it. 12 of this bill please tell me whether to carry out personal checks and also check the contents of your luggage... Who's gonna do that personal check? How's that supposed to look? How are we gonna get in here? Will someone carry out a personal checkup? Are you planning on assigning separate rooms for personal inspection? I just can't imagine it. Let me get this straight. And now the third line. [[Four.]] I thought it was permanent. But I was a little intrigued by art. 3 (1) (a) 2 point 2: reveals persons and events and identifies places and phenomena which may be related to the risk of protected persons and the safety of protected facilities and equipment. What does it mean to reveal a person? Thank you very much, at least for the time being, because I'll still have questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u151	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u152	As far as the first question is concerned, about business dogs, there's an article in here. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 7 to be used for checking the use of professional dogs. Now let's ask the question, if this record wasn't in the bill... I do not know if the Marshal's Guard will be equipped with service dogs in the end, but I know that service dogs often detect... Well, they have, so to speak, a sensitive sense of smell, that they can, for example. certain types of explosive to be found. Right? They're so trained. I don't know if there's gonna be dogs here, but the law gives us the opportunity to use them. Well, there's a possibility. I don't know, maybe it'll be necessary in the future. If necessary, we will not have to go back to the bill and update it. Well, there is no way to apply some method of checking someone by the Marshal's Guard, if it is not included in the catalogue, so that I think this is a logical record. We've seen police and service dogs a lot. Well, I haven't seen them in the Sejm and Senate area yet, but I see them out of the area very often. There are airports, for example. About the second question... I don't know if that was the second or third question. Personal control will be carried out by the Marshal's Guard, but as far as I know, such personal control may also be carried out by the former BOR, or SOP. This does not apply to parliamentarians, because we are not controlled, so that please do not suggest that we can also be controlled. No, we don't, but suspects can be controlled. Someone, for example. It goes through the gate, supposedly without metal elements, and the gate still detects metal. What do you do then? Let that person in? There are various methods, so that I think that... personal control is now in the competence of the SOP, and it will be in the competence of the Marshal's Guard. I do not know how such a personal check in the area of the Sejm and the Senate at the entrance takes place, whether such checks were carried out at all or not. I think the Minister will be able to say more. Anyway, this possibility has to be, because I wouldn't feel safe knowing that someone comes in who hasn't been completely controlled and isn't sure. Like the senator said, we feel safe. I still want to feel safe. I think that if the new Marszałkowska Guard takes over the competences from the BOR and executes them like the BOR, we will still feel safe. And the third question... Excuse me, remind me the third question. It was about control, about dogs, and the third... [[How do you put these people...]] Which article is it, if I may... [[Which police is the right one? This is...]] Yeah, it's about taking a person in. Well, I don't think the Marshals' Guard or the Marshal of the Sejm, in agreement with the Senate Marshal in the Sejm and the Senate, would like to open some kind of cache arrest. I mean, that's the kind of person that's being held, isn't it? Well, she can't be held in handcuffs in the seym hallway. And when a gun is picked up, you have to have the conditions to lay down, store that gun, because the gun can't be in Mrs. Zosia's locker or drawer, that's the name, only you have to have the safes, not the safes, etc. I think the right unit is... I do not know whether this police unit is called Warsaw Śródmieście or not. I think there's one in our area. I'm sure the Minister will know which police unit is appropriate for the Sejm and Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u153	Your marshal wanted to ask again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u154	Yeah, one more thing. Well, I have to say, Mr. Senator, I'm starting to worry because there's still a path to health with the police, with the dogs... oh, man, that doesn't sound good. But if it comes into force and starts working, it can be better used in the future. But I'm gonna keep asking about these signalers. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 Section 2 refers to the collection and processing of information, including personal data, which may affect the performance of tasks. Are you really sure that what has been said all along is that the Marshal's Guard can obtain I don't know what it's called, TW or what it's called right now. Those whistleblowers... In view of the shape of these records, we certainly will not have a proposal - We might not. E.g. Cooperation? One more thing. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 15 we read that when carrying out the activities referred to in point 12, an officer is required to give an instruction to the person in question. So the guards get these special clearances. Please make sure we do so to the end: are you sure you and ladies do not have the right to keep parliamentarians in Parliament? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u155	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Because I think they can.]] Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of 3: To include persons who clearly pose a direct threat to human life or health and property, as well as persons who grossly violate public order, this is a reference to Article. The 15 you're asking about. And then, give the person the command. Well, I know, at least from the media, sometimes on TV. I've seen what a person's shot looks like, and... These are orders, these are specific procedures when a person is detained by officers. Right? I think that's what this is about. [[So that's it?]] I think so. If a person threatens the safety of the environment in some way, that is what I think will be the form. As for the parliamentarians, I think the Minister will dispel your doubts. I'll just say that nowhere in this bill is there a threat to the constitutional rights of the personal integrity of parliamentarians, as I have already answered Senator Rybicki. I didn't find it here, and I read the entire bill, nothing that would suggest that we, as parliamentarians, would be under surveillance in any way, if there was any way to search it. No, there's no... [[But can we serve as whistleblowers?]] [[Not professionally.]] And that I don't know, it's the senator who can ask the Minister if you can be the whistleblower. I'm sure you'll answer the question. There was no mention of this at the committee meeting. [[Age won't let you...]] [[Voice from the room: But you can easily...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u157	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u158	Mr. Marshal... [[If you search it like that, you don't know...]] [[Allow me to ask you a question to Marshal Borusewicz.]] First of all, coercive measures. The Marshal's Guard receives similar coercion measures as the police. Therefore, the question is: will the Marshal's Guard be equipped... [[Room voice: Taser.]] That in the taser, that's clear. But do you, for example? Doghouse dogs? [[That was the question. It was.]] It was, wasn't it? [[It was.]] [[It was a question.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u159	I don't know if he'll be there, but I'm sure the Minister will answer that, but... [[Good.]] ...there's a legal possibility. The law gives us the opportunity to use service dogs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u160	Mr. Senator, because I asked you a question, but maybe it was unclear, I would like to ask whether, after the introduction of this bill, the protected persons, the Marshal of the Sejm and the Senate, will be protected by the Marshal's Guard or not. Will it still be... [[It's up to who?]] ...in the hands of... [[It's up to the SOP.]] [[SOP.]] [[SOP.]] ...SOP? [[SOP.]] SOP. Yeah, SOP. That's the first question. Second question: will Marszałkowska Guard be uniformed differently in connection with its representation duties? Is what you could hear and read, or historical uniforms, swords, halabards, expected? [[Jokes.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's the second question. And the third question... [[The dykes. The dykes.]] Is Art. 4... this is very important. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 it is expected that the Marshal's Guard will collect and process data about persons and threats in cooperation with other services ♪ Homeland Security, et Will Members and Senators be excluded from this processing and data collection, or is there not such exclusion? [[Mr. Marshal, repeat the first question again, because I didn't have time to write it down. You've been asking a question for so long.]] [[You've already answered the first one. You don't know about dogs.]] [[I don't know. Yeah, yeah. Okay.]] [[Taser.]] [[I know there's gonna be tasers.]] [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u161	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u162	Mr. Marshal, when it comes to historical features and uniforms, one would have to wonder what kind of uniforms would the Marshal's Guard have to wear, because it has changed over the centuries. And the equipment, and the halabards... [[The contusions.]] [[It's a historical costume.]] ...and various such devices, so to speak, old-date devices. But I don't think so. I think uniforming will remain the same. The equipment will be modern. At the committee meeting, the director of the Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs indicated that this would be very modern equipment and for many years. Officers already have guns. So that the service will be provided. When it comes to processing personal data, I don't know... [[No, no, security. I asked if the Marshal's Guard would take over the security duties.]] No. I mean, when it comes to... it just slipped away. No, I mean, under other laws... [[Because..]] ...marshal of the Sejm, Senate, President of the Republic of Poland have individual protection. I don't think the Marshal's Guard... The Marshal's Guard ensures that, so to speak, Parliament's security, as well as the parliamentarians, that is to say, us. And people like you, Marshal of the Sejm, who is the second person in the country, Marshal of the Senate, who is the third person in the country, have individual protection under separate regulations. And they'll still have it. What's more, they can't even give up on this protection, as I recall, because there's no way. It's a duty. Besides, as former Senate marshal, you also know that this is mandatory protection, which is and must be. And as far as data processing and art are concerned. Four, I don't think so. Let me put it this way: I don't know what kind of data he has at this point. SOP, which is the former BOR, which protects the Sejm and Senate objects, or which sensitive data it collects. You can imagine that on the territory of the Seym or the Senate together with a trip, I don't know, pensioners want to enter a person who is... Well, I don't know which databases it's coming from, because it's probably data flows that can be accessed online from different sources... [[Mr. Senator, I'm not talking about pensioners who come to visit Parliament. I'm asking you...]] It's about parliamentarians. [[...or the parliamentarians are excluded from this.]] Parliamentarians are constitutionally excluded in terms of the scope of immunity at work. Well, I don't know what... I think the Minister will answer, what data will be collected, what data will be collected. [[Okay, I'm gonna ask the minister that question.]] It didn't happen at the committee meeting. But I don't think for any legitimate reason...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u163	Mr. Marshal, do you have any further questions? [[Yes. If no one's checking in, I'm gonna ask you a few more questions.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u164	Good. The Marshal's Guard, which will be a police service, because this law introduces it, will have the opportunity to make arrests. Is the detention centre therefore envisaged? [[There was a question.]] [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] I understand, but... [[That question has already been asked, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Wait a minute, Mr. Senator...]] So, you're still... [[...we'll wait 'cause maybe the marshal has further questions.]] Thank you very much. [[Well, go on then.]] Senator rapporteur, the law essentially reiterates that the scope and manner of carrying out the tasks referred to in paragraph 1. 1. As regards the protection of the Senate, he agrees with the Marshal of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Senate. Don't you think that also with regard to the protection of the Senate and the duties of the chief... the head of the Sejm Chancellery determines the duties and duties of the Chief of the Marshal's Guard? Shouldn't the Senate, by analogy, define these duties as marshals... I mean, not the marshal, but the head of the Senate Chancellery in agreement with the head of the Chancellery... In other words, the head of the Sejm Office in agreement with the head of the Senate Chancellery. Shouldn't that be the same solution? [[Voice from the room: This is supposed to be proposed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u165	Has the marshal exhausted his questions? [[Yes. But I didn't wear myself out, and I can...]] And now I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As you've already said to yourself... Since the question you asked first has already been asked, I'm gonna allow myself not to answer it. As for the second point that you raised, it was not the subject of a committee meeting. Well, these are organizational issues. There are 2 separate entities of the Sejm law firm and the Senate law firm. The head of the Marshal's Guard is the Marshal of the Sejm. The Marshal's Guard, the Marshal's Guard of the Sejm... the Marshal's Guard also protects the Senate. The Senate's protection under this law is in agreement with the Senate Marshal. I can't imagine that it would be so to say, split the personality and that the commandant of the Marshal's Guard would receive dispositions or commands from 2 different control centers. So... I know that when the demonstrators tried to invade the Senate, The Sejm He wasn't sitting at the time. It was the head of the Senate Chancellery who was in constant contact with the Marshal's Guard, but also with the police, with the services that were then brought in for our safety. Mr. Marshal, yes, it was. Maybe you weren't in any danger, but for example. I felt threatened on my way out. As in the Sejm and Senate, I do not feel threatened, so outside the building in these difficult days I felt threatened. And there have been cases of almost violations of the personal integrity of parliamentarians. And that's disgraceful, at least in my opinion. [[The bill applies to the territory of parliament?]] Yeah, right. And if a parliamentarian stays, I don't know, caught or poked behind the Senate gate on the sidewalk... Well, it's out of the Senate area, it's known, it's just a question of whether the servants should intervene or not. [[Voice from the courtroom: Police are...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u167	Has the senator finished answering? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u168	Mr. Senator, I'll get back to the question you asked earlier. I'm a senator, I'm walking through the hallway, and a guard comes up to me after these regulations, and he says, "Sir, come with me, 'cause I want to search you. Can he do that? Will he have to have the marshal's permission to do that? And if it's not the marshal, who is it? Is that even acceptable? We know what the situation is today. Will change cause us to be treated differently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u169	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u170	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Let me put it this way, Mr. Senator. Until now, you have not been controlled by the Marshal's Guard. You were also not controlled by the Government Security Bureau, currently the State Security Service. And that's where competence doesn't change. I read the bill and I don't see a record that, as I said, would allow the Marshal's Guard to search or control parliamentarians. As far as I know, there's no such service in the country. Yes, during President Trump's visit, we were controlled by the Secret Service, but these were requirements for international arrangements. As a rule, we are not in Poland and will not be controlled by Polish services. I want to assure you of that. There's one more thing. I do not know if, when you read the bill, you pointed out that a Marshal's Guard officer would have to introduce himself and state his name and the legal basis of his actions before carrying out specific activities, Senator, first of all. If it turns out that in the given legal act any of the articles allows the Marshal's Guard to search you, then you can be controlled. I didn't find that in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u171	You're asking Senator Bonkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u172	Senator rapporteur, I listened to everything and at first I thought that the opposition colleagues were ironic. But after a while, I found that sometimes they ask the right questions. Marshal Borusewicz asked a question, but you didn't answer him. I'd like to ask if there's really gonna be a cage in here. We've already had a fugitive here in a prison suit. Will there be any more straitjacket? We also had clowns in the O.R. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The marshal asked, but you didn't answer him. Will there be a place of isolation used in such cases, for fugitives and clowns? [[Mr. Senator, please formulate your question.]] That's what I'm asking. Will there be places of isolation and means of direct coercion, such as safety straitjacket for clowns or fugitives in prison denims who sometimes appear here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u173	Does the senator want to answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u174	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Briefly. I already told you, Mr. Senator, that according to the statutory submission, in the event of a arrest on the basis of certain conditions, the person in custody is transferred to the nearest competent police department. The same is true in the case of secured property of a dangerous type of weapon. I don't expect you to have some kind of hand-in here. As I say, the bill in advance provides for the transfer of the person detained to the appropriate police unit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u175	Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u176	I will refer to senator Waldemar's question. I understand the words about the clowns and the idiots who performed here are about the senators. I haven't seen anyone else perform in the Senate in a prison suit. Can the Marshal's Guard in such situations such a clown, within the meaning of the Member State senator, stop, disable and put in a cage?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u177	I think the senator is going too far in his proposals, but if the senator wants to, he can answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. What you said, Mr. Senator, it seems to me to be inappropriate. I'm not gonna talk about it. I'm not going into this discussion. I'm a senator rapporteur, not a spokesperson or a middleman. The Marshal's Guard is supposed to take care of the order. If there is a disturbance of order, there will be a security situation, the Marshal's Guard will be able to intervene. As for the activities performed by the Marshal's Guard, it is decided by the Marshal of the Sejm, and in the Senate The Senate Marshal. It didn't happen here... This situation, which Senator Bonkowski referred to, was simply a comical situation for the House of the Supreme Polish Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u179	Are there any further questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The draft laws were submitted by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the laws under consideration? Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration... Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Marshal Borusewicz came forward. There you go. Minister, if you'll excuse me, we'll have questions for a government representative. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u180	Thank you. Minister, art is very important here. 4, therefore, I will now ask for this article to specify the provisions contained in it. Especially art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 personal data, etc. This article deals with the collection and processing by the Marshal's Guard of data provided by the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Police, etc., etc. These services collect various types of data, including sensitive data, about the state of health, but not only. And when it comes to data storage... the storage time of this data is the time necessary for the Marshal's Guard to carry out its tasks. So there's no time. These tasks of the Marshal's Guard can be performed for many, many years. Therefore, the question: does this mean that the Marshal's Guard will be able to collect, store and process data about Members and Senators? That's a basic question for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u181	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u182	Mr. Marshal, your senate, I would first like to explain why, when your marshal asked me if I wanted to speak, I said not necessarily. Because it wasn't a government project, it was a commission project, this bill was prepared by the Board of Administration and Home Affairs of the Sejm, it was the committee that shaped the rules of this project, the participation... In other words, the government's position, formalised in the form of a document adopted by the government, is not in this case. Sometimes you practice something like this, it happens. In this case, there is no such position. And the MMA's involvement in the work on this document was, I would say, limited, because we recognized I think it's right, I hope you'll confirm it. The Parliament, the Sejm and the Senate have the right to shape the security issues of these extremely important places, objects, institutions such as the seat of the Sejm and the Senate, both chambers of the Polish Parliament without imposing a vision. So our participation in this work was discreet, rather consultative, rather than regulatory. I want to make that very clear, because I think it needs to be clarified at first. For this reason, I may not be able to answer all the questions that you senators are asking, to give precise answers, especially as to the intentions that have given rise to certain phrases, but, of course, I will try to give them as much as possible and knowledge as possible, including the context of the experience of other services. The Sejm, the Senate, are special places not only because of their importance and importance to the State, but also because we are dealing with a constitutional division of roles in the State between legislative and executive powers. It's against appearances... Someone might think it doesn't matter to this case. It matters. Therefore, Once again, it seems to me that it would be inappropriate for the government to step in on these decisions concerning the way in which Parliament wants to ensure security for these institutions. This is the first case, the first important one. I think it's an explanation. The second explanation, in my opinion also important, is that the Marshal's Guard is functioning, it is not a new institution. Now he will become a service in the sense that is given to this concept in the laws. But a whole range of tasks, powers also, in a large part of those which you senators are asking about, the Marshal's Guard has today. These are not entirely new tasks and competences. Third, I'm convinced And I don't think I'm gonna be alone in that. It is necessary to do everything in order to ensure the safety of the Sejm and the Senate, the buildings, institutions, the people who are here, i.e. Members, senators, employees of the Sejm and Senate Chancellery and all persons present in the area, and such persons pass through Parliament a lot during the year. These are foreign delegations, heads of state, school trips In order to show a little bit of this in a diverse way, children and young people during the meeting of the children's parliament on 1 June. But every day a whole series of individual and group visits to the Seym and the Senate take place. So in times of danger that exist today... Whether the senator, the marshal, the senator feel safe in the Senate or not, the dangers are and need to be put in place to guarantee safety. I mean, you're right. It is a pity that the state has not called it back, and it has already happened in the near past, which has shown that it is really necessary to protect, and very effectively, the Polish Parliament. I will remind you of 2012. The Krakow scientific worker, Brunon K., was accused of preparing an assassination attempt to be carried out during the meeting of the Polish Sejm with the participation of the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Council of Ministers between July and November 2012. The court ruled against Brunon K., who was sentenced to nine years of imprisonment. So it's not a matter to be ignored. Once again, it's not just a potential idea that there might be threats because they've already appeared. A second example could be the issue of journalistic provocations, which took place shortly after this event. That was carried out by journalists after the arrest of Brunon K. The journalists then, after purchasing explosives and carrying out a controlled explosion, brought this material into the building, into the Parliament building, and in a small amount. At the time, the Marshal of the Sejm, Eve Kopacz, said then I quote: It's shocking and outrageous. Yeah, that's right, I share that view. It's just that your marshal at that time, along with the parliamentary majority, did nothing to prevent this situation from happening. Not just provocation... Provocation should not take place either, it would not have been possible if Parliament had been well protected. But since there could have been a provocation of this type and an explosive device could have been brought in, someone could have done so for purposes that were really bad, for purposes of real intent to harm someone, to detonate an explosive device. Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not underestimate this, because this can bring really bad results. You can't play games with threats. Members in the subcommittee and the Parliamentary Committee were aware of this. Members of all clubs supported this project and there was not a single vote of opposition. I didn't attend all the meetings. They were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the level of the Department's directors in order to provide advice and substantive assistance And it was realized. But I know from their accounts, from the reports, and also from those meetings where I myself participated, that there was no doubt about it. Everyone in a very mature way supported this initiative. Besides, it was a committee initiative, and I repeat it again, and I stress it. What happened in the plenary session of the Sejm that suddenly the opposition Didn't all of it, fortunately, start criticizing this project? Well, you can easily answer yourself. You know as well as I do, and I know as well as you do that politics has entered into it, a misunderstood policy of questioning everything that a parliamentary majority can approve. This is bad fun, really. But I ask you to think about it. This is a citizen's hot request, not just a representative of the government or an MP, who I am. It's such a citizen's request not to make threats that can be very real, political use and not question everything whether it's right or wrong. Your representatives, Members of your parliamentary clubs, have decided that this is the right solution, and they have supported it, but only at the level of committee work, where there was no media. When the media appeared, they immediately began to question these solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such a law should be adopted in the atmosphere of political consensus, because authorities change, clubs change, parliamentary majority change, governments change, and security is one of the most important values that must be ensured forever and everywhere. This is a very important element of state security. A whole bunch of questions I've been asking here... They were not addressed to me at that stage, but to the Senator rapporteur, but I knew that they would be repeated to me as well. Don't be offended, but it sounded as if these questions were coming from, first of all, the failure to read the bill. These rules, however, which have been shaped not by the government, but by committees and ultimately by the Sejm, provide answers to most of these questions, but simply have to be read. They are included in these provisions. Secondly, it seems that they were largely due to the wrong will, which is to attribute this law to something that is not here, and to attribute to this service the qualities which the Marshal's Guard will not have. Well, first of all, it's not special service. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been such charges here, and I have responded to them from this speaker. The special service is not and has never been the Office for Government Protection, nor is it the State Protection Service that we have recently established. This bill came into force recently. This is a protective service. The State Protection Service is a protective service; it is not a special service. It is a modern protective service and we have high hopes for it. And here I want to answer one of the questions right away. Relevant provision of this law I do not remember the number of the article at the moment, but you can reach it and check it out. It says that the Marshal's Guard performs tasks in the Sejm and Senate area that are not reserved for the State Security Service. Well, for example. The protection of persons listed in the Law on the Protection of the State or other persons to whom such personal protection has been granted for the benefit of the State will, of course, continue to be exercised by the State Protection Service and not by the Marshal's Guard. The Marshal's Guards and the provisions of this law clearly speak about it.The aim is to ensure the security of buildings and people residing in the Sejm and Senate, but this will not be a service dealing with e.g. personal protection. It was at first such an idea that protection could be granted at the request of the Member or on the basis of a decision of the Marshal of the Sejm, Members and Senators also outside the Parliament's building, but he was rejected. He fell, it's not here. There's no recipe. Just like there is no recipe, and there were questions about it, but different formulas, I had the impression that with the ignorance of what these questions were about... There is absolutely no... does not receive the Marshal's Guard's surgical and cognitive powers, does not receive these powers. And he does not receive the right to use personal sources of information. Eating, I believe, the senator called... [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] ...signalists. This is a completely different matter. I assure you, senator, there are no whistleblowers in this bill. [[There's no whistleblowers? That's too bad.]] I repeat: although the government is not the author of this bill, I assure you that there are no whistleblowers in this bill and no rights are granted... [[Do you have to admit it? She's gonna be snitching?]] [[Yeah, for you.]] [[Out of habit.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Marshal's Guard is not granted the right to use personal sources of information. So, no, it doesn't concern it, and please accept it for an acceptable message, I hope, because simply the text of the law prejudices it. Ladies and gentlemen, what else of these important matters should be mentioned here? This isn't special duty, I repeat. And the question was... This is not a special service. Don't really confuse that. Special forces are special forces, they're defined, they have their status, their laws, their oversight. None of these services that are discussed and on which I come to the Senate as a representative of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration is a special service. The Special Services shall be supervised by the Minister for Special Services, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration by 4 uniformed services. He doesn't supervise this one and he won't supervise it. After all, the Minister of the Interior will not supervise the Marshal's Guard. She will, of course, be supervised by the Marshal of the Sejm, because she will be subject to him, through the commandant of the Marshal's Guard, the head of the Sejm Chancellery. But that's what it's like to be autonomous, to be in charge of security. I think I've got a pretty good word for it. The autonomous management of security by the parliament itself. And yet, the Marshal's Guard The law prejudices this. In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7 is defined as the organizational cell of the Sejm Chancellery, not as special service and not as police. This is the organizational cell of the Sejm Chancellery. Incidentally, here were questions about what the Marshal of the Sejm, what the Marshal of the Senate would be able to do in this regard. Art. 1 paragraph This is the case: the scope and manner of carrying out the tasks referred to in paragraph 3. One for the protection of the Senate will determine the Marshal of the Sejm in agreement with the Marshal... excuse me, Marshal of the Sejm in agreement with the Marshal of the Sejm, of course with the provisions on the protection of classified information... [[The Senate. In agreement with the Senate Marshal.]] Marshal of the Sejm in agreement with the Marshal of the Senate. Sorry, yeah. So there's a Senate marshal in this. There was a question. If you don't repeat it, perhaps the ones I remember, although they weren't for me, I'll answer right away about whether a Member, Senator or Marshal's Guard can stop him. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Marshal's Guard does not receive the right to retain anyone. The legislator, the Sejm in this case, because we are after the seym stage, assumed that the Marshal's Guard could take a shot. That's a different concept. Stopping is a procedural concept. The Marshal's Guard doesn't have the authority to do this. He can take a shot. And of course that means handing over to the police as soon as possible. Therefore, no detention rooms will be built in Parliament. She will simply hand over the person in charge of the police, and she will carry out further activities to which she is entitled. The question was which police unit. Well, the nearest unit, I imagine that in this case it will be Police District Command No. 1, which is the one on Wilcza Street in Warsaw so far. [[Known, known.]] [[We need to get a power of attorney if we need to.]] Excuse me? [[Known.]] Well, I don't know who's familiar with what kind of experience... [[Minister, continue.]] Maybe it's famous. I'm known because I'm supervising the police. And Mr. Marshal, I don't know where he's from. [[We need power of attorney...]] [[Same thing. I supervised the police, too.]] Oh, yeah, if that's the case, then of course it's okay. If you remember that time, you're also well known... [[But from another situation, too.]] Okay, well, that's all we know. We know the difference between us. It doesn't make any sense. It's a waste of time. We know, it's not the first time it's been described. [[Times change and poses stay the same.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a Member or Senator of the Marshal's Guard will certainly not be able to stop it because it has no such authority at all. Nor will she be able to identify him as being entitled to other persons if there is such a situation as would exhaust the conditions of necessity. Remember, it's working. And no one put up with her. The Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, it defines the rights of Members and Senators, including in this respect. You can't hold a Member or a Senator criminally liable without the permission of the Sejm. So you can't actually do the process, either. And so what are you afraid of? I don't know. Well, you say you're safe... You'll be very safe under this bill. Although, I repeat, the government is not the author of it. But really, don't worry. The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator is still in place, and no one can stand it. There's a constitution. Unless... there is one thing, ladies and gentlemen: if a Member or a Senator is apprehended But that's what's gonna happen anywhere. In the act of committing a crime. But then the Marshal's Guard will not stop because she has no right to stop. It will be done by other servants. But I hope it never happens to anyone. Members, senators are not reviewed when entering the building of the Sejm. Their personal information is known. There have been questions about whether the Marshal's Guard will have personal information of Members, Senators. And are we? Didn't we all share our personal information? They are, they are owned by the Marshal of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Senate. The Marshal's Guard must know who the Member is, who the Senator is, or else he may be mistaken and for example. lead someone to check the pyrotechnics. And the senator doesn't work. Although there are situations that work. For a time, I was a member, even chairman of the Sejm Committee on Special Services, and there we were all checked by the Government Protection Office when we entered this committee. And I think that's the way it is now. At the time, it seemed to me that this was not the best solution. Because it was this kind of extraterritoriality of parliament, with the three divisions of power in Poland, here it seemed a little questionable to me. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: We were checked in an secret sitting...]] [[We were...]] [[We were.]] [[Voice from the room: And through the Marshal's Guard we were...]] Yeah, right. But I am talking about this example, that... Now, as I understand it, it will be in the competence of the Marshal's Guard, i.e. this Parliament's own service, not the government service, which is now the State Protection Service and before the Office for Government Protection. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was just again asking the Senator rapporteur first with these questions, and now to me about this information about persons, art. 4. [[Art. 4 is a key article...]] Yes, please note... [[...Mr. Minister, a key article.]] But read it, Mr. Marshal. I would like to draw your attention to the following record. The Marszałkowska Guard can use the information about persons and threats made available by... And here are the services: ABW, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, etc. The Marszałkowska Guard will not have access to all data, but to those made available by the said services and to which access will be justified by the need for identified threats. So that it is not that the Marshal's Guard will have access to information about persons as far as possible. But the fact that it can collect and process this information, including personal data, which may affect the performance of its tasks, is probably not appropriate, Ladies and Gentlemen, to question. Because in order for her to be able to perform her tasks effectively, she must have access to such information. Yeah, 'cause that's what the threat recognition is all about. But only to the extent that her tasks are defined in the bill, not bigger, not wider. If we had deprived the guards of this, we would have deprived them of an important instrument in preventive measures. 'Cause that's what they're assigned to. It's not operational and research and investigation, it's preventative, it's to be able to recognize and counteract the risks in this preventive dimension, ensuring the safety of the Sejm, the Senate and the people here. It's gonna be a protective service. Today it is a protective service against the objects of the Sejm and the Senate, but to people in the sense in which it is defined in detail in personal protection, it is not I've already explained that. Of course, he's supposed to ensure... There's also a record in one of the articles that's about to ensure security. It's not protection, it's security for people in the Sejm and the Senate. Security. We want that safety, we want it, we need it. Everyone who comes here must be safe. What kind of country would that be? What kind of country wouldn't provide security in the most important place, really or in one of the most important places? I'm sure it's one of the most important ones, maybe the most important ones, because this is where laws are made, legislation. Are these institutions and people staying here? You wouldn't want a country like that, would you? [[It was meant to be.]] And that is why the Ministry, which I represent, after examining these provisions, supported them, considering that the scope of the tasks and the way in which they were carried out, which was formulated by the committee and then by the Sejm, guarantee this security. They guarantee it's safe. There was also a question of possible support in situations where the Marshal's Guard's forces and resources were insufficient from other services. The mode in which this happens is defined, but of course this is a well-known solution, because this was the case with the Government Protection Office, and so is the State Protection Service. There are other formations, especially the police, which must provide support upon request properly carried out, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, if the forces and means of this small formation prove insufficient. Under normal circumstances, they should be sufficient, and I hope they will be sufficient, but emergency, crisis situations can also be envisaged. Then perhaps the Marshal's Guard will find that its forces and resources are not sufficient. But I think that all the situations that you can think of now, because they were mentioned here, are not those situations. I think that the Marshal's Guard of this size, which it has today, with limited resources, was trying to ensure it, and with the strengthened it will be able to do so. It's not unusual, but it's really bigger. If there were any terrorist attempt, I'd point your thoughts at such events. To threaten a terrorist attack, then there may be a need for support from other services. That can't be ruled out. That is why such a provision in the Act was provided for. Mr. Marshal, maybe I could end this because I don't remember all the questions. I tried to answer some of the questions that had been formulated before. If there's any more questions for me... [[Thank you. There are further questions.]] I'll do my best. Please accept this explanation as well... I would ask: if there are very detailed questions about what is the intention, what shaped these laws in the sense of the philosophy of the law which has been proposed here, it is because it is, however, a Parliamentary, parliamentary, and not a government project that may have to be answered in writing. I'm ready to do it, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u183	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Firstly, I would ask for an obvious answer to the following question. We know that the powers of Members and Senators will not change, that the principle of access to buildings will not change, that the new provisions proposed in this law will not change our contact with society. I'd like to ask you to assure me... Because maybe the opposition just has a problem with the fact that, I don't know, we'll somehow separate ourselves through the Marshal's Guard. I don't think so. This bill is absolutely necessary. That's the first question, actually, a suggestion. And the other. It has a slightly different nature. Namely it concerns the text of the provisions implementing the Marshal's Guard Act. There in one of the articles, specifically in the article. 1, we implement one of the articles of this main act, i.e. the Marshal's Guard Act, with a date earlier than the law itself enters into force. I mean, art. Point 1 introduces Article. 18 Law on the Marshal's Guard 14 days from the date of the announcement, while the Act itself enters into force on 20 May. So these are... Of course, this article must be introduced earlier. Point 1 and this possibility exists, and I will therefore make an amendment so that the dates of implementation of these specific provisions are, so to speak, healthy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u185	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u186	Mr. Senator, maybe you're right about the other thing. This is a legislative matter; I'm sure the committee will consider it. If it's what you say it is, then it needs to be improved, of course, but I don't want to deal directly with it because I didn't analyse it. This is not a rule in which I participated in shaping, so please do not ask me to answer very precisely at once. It has already rained in talks with the legislator that there is such a problem, so maybe we should really consider it, consider it. But this is a matter for you because we are in the stage of senate work. But if necessary, I would say so. If you have to, you have to. As far as the first question is concerned, I can certainly assure you with all my power that the availability of the Sejm and Senate for Members, for the senators, will not change for all as a result of the adoption of this law, but will increase security.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u187	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u188	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, senators have reason to ask about the scope of the Marshal's Guard's powers towards the senators, because it is true that it has happened in the history of Parliament, as I have already mentioned, to use against parliamentarians going too far, undoubtedly violating immunity. I, too, witnessed such actions of the Marshal's Guard before the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, which acted in private mode. The Marshal's Guard then used actions that did not fit in the permission directory, namely to search the senators. This is an obvious violation of formal immunity, which is the immunity of a personal MP. And the questions in this regard are right. I will develop this in my speech in the debate. In the context of this situation, I would like to ask you if you are aware of the reason for your departure from the service of the former Head of the Marshal's Guard, who, as the experts in the corridor say, has left because he has not done so. It is right to order the use of violence against Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u190	The senator addressed the second question wrong. It's not for me. The government, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, does not supervise the Marshal's Guard. These are neither my powers nor ours, so please address this question where it needs to be. I can't confirm what you said because it's known to you and by your senator interpreted events. But I want to share one obvious reflection. All of us, Members, Senators, are bound by the law. We make the law, but we have to respect the law ourselves... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator wants to ask you another question, right?]] ...or maybe even give the pattern of compliance. That's what I'd say. Pattern. [[Yeah, I want to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u191	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u192	In your opinion, the minister's constitutional powers of every Member and Senator to the fact that, without the permission of the Sejm or the Senate, he is not subject to detention, arrest and other restrictions on freedom and interference in his freedom as a parliamentarian is a provision that not only Members know? Shouldn't the minister know him in any government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: But what do you suggest? It's that...]] [[He doesn't know...]] Well, Minister, I just told you about a particular case that happened... [[I'll ask you a specific question. It'll be easier this way.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I do not know what you mean, Senator.]] It's just that they're right... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Someone who doesn't know this recipe...]] ...of the Senators because they themselves were the subject of activities that went beyond the competence of the Marshal's Guard Act. And I ask the Minister whether such actions against senators according to the Minister are legal or illegal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u193	I don't know what you're doing. Hey, hey, You know them and you interpret them. I can say that I know, as you know, and as we all know, the recipe. Of course we must observe it; it is and will be observed That a Member or a Senator may not be detained or arrested without the consent of the Sejm or the Senate. I've already quoted that recipe. The Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator is clear in Article. Ten settles. If you're saying that someone didn't comply with this provision, please put it in the form of It's been a long time since I've had to do it. Some kind of accusation against him. Well, I can't relate to the theoretical situation described by you, which I don't know. Was or wasn't there... The rules are clear. The senator is subject to the same restrictions as the Member. If you want to compare a Member and a Senator... The recipe is known and no one has the right to break it. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u194	Senator Rybicki has another one, another one...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u195	I'm in the middle of a corrigendum. I wasn't talking about arrest and arrest, although this is also the issue of immunity, but about restricting parliamentary freedom and about the fact that the senators were being searched. This is the question of whether the senator can be searched by the Marshal's Guard or can be identified by the Marshal's Guard. This is a very obvious and important question in our context.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u196	Of course he can be identified. [[He could be identified.]] [[I always show...]] I assure you, as an MP... I'm a 15-year member. In the first years of my work I was quite often registered by the Marshal's Guard. It didn't occur to me to protest. Members and senators known... [[I was showing my ID today.]] ...officers of the Marshal's Guard Now they'll be officers, they're just recognized without legitimacy. But these guards are changing, new ones are coming. They have a right not to know... [[Show me your ID.]] What an insult, Mr. Senator, is that the guard of the Marshal's Guard Under the rule of this law: Officer of the Marshal's Guard In particular, a new one recently admitted to the service, who has been properly trained but does not yet know everyone, will ask you to identify yourself? What kind of insult is that? Then I show my message card, smile, and that's it. [[It's not about courtesy, it's about regulations.]] [[Do you have any further questions? Finish it.]] Yes, the Marshal's Guard under this law will have the right to legit. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u197	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u198	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to explain two things. As far as the Senate is concerned, we're a lot, for apologies, stupidity, or sejm mistakes. sejm committee mistakes really, really, really, really, really, really, really, We've already corrected it. Thanks to the Upper House, the House of Reason and Reason, you can avoid really... For the last time, if you'd accepted our amendments... As far as the Brunon K case is concerned, I don't think it's the kind of service that detects a possible crime. Therefore, it is probably inappropriate to indicate the need for changes, the introduction of the Marshal's Guard Act. In my opinion... I am in favour of this law, I will vote in favour, but provided that this law does not threaten the freedoms enshrined in the Constitutional Act and in our Rules of Procedure. And that's what we're asking, hence the fundamental questions you're asking Senator Rybicki. They are really important and important and should not be mocked, but really consider the matter before we make a decision. And questions. In the Act in Art. Twelve of us have records on the admission of persons. You say the shot isn't the same as the stop. Tell me how it's different. Next thing you know, when it comes to this control... 'Cause I'm still waiting for you to tell me about this manual check or the dog check. Or what, but I can't imagine... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: The senator did not ask that.]] Please? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: You have not yet asked...]] I know, but I thought you were already here, answering our questions in general will also inform... But I'm talking about these dogs. 'Cause I can't imagine that there's possibly a permanent path of health with dogs here. [[What kind of health pathways?]] And another case. You said, and of course it is written that the Marshal's Guard still falls under the jurisdiction of the Marshal of the Sejm only. But I would therefore like to ask about this point in which we are talking about planning together with the State Security Service, the Military Gendarmerie and the Police ways and methods of cooperating in situations of potential threats. And there is further a provision:. The Marshal's Guard for the activities referred to in paragraph. One... The point is that having supervision of this... paragraph 2: reveals persons and events and recognizes places and phenomena that may be related to the threat of protected persons and the safety of protected facilities and devices. I understand that in emergency situations. As you mentioned: Children's and Youth Sejm, visits to foreign visitors, etc., etc. Mr. Marshal works and cooperates with these services. But I wouldn't want Mr. Marshal to cooperate with you every day, apart from these accidents. individual parliamentarians. And that's such a fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u199	Senator, this is a fear I don't know where it came from. Well, study these regulations, I encourage you to do so. Because no recipe... [[I'm studying right now.]] ...doesn't authorize such concerns, doesn't justify them. Anyway, I don't see any records that could raise doubts about that. Of course, I hope the senator's got a little bit of a slip, because the Children's and Youth Sejm doesn't pose any threat... [[No, you said...]] No, I was talking about a lot of people... [[But lately...]] ...stays in the Seym and the Senate, among others. I was just exchanging... [[But...]] But it's not a threat. It is lucky that we have children and young people who want to come to the Sejm and sit in the Chamber of the Sejm, that they are learning parliamentarians, this is a good case, very positive, not any threat. However, in security situations this must be an interaction. They can, of course, be very different, I've only given an example of terrorist threats, very dangerous, but there can also be other threats, different kinds of threats. And then there must be cooperation between these services. And even the fact that the law refers to the data, to the information available to other services, to the extent that it will be made available, I have already cited this provision. The Marshal's Guards... Here, too, there is an obvious level of cooperation, even without any special situation, only in the daily performance of duties, when necessary and when a threat is recognised. Taking a shot is not a process term. Stopping is a procedural concept. And therefore it is simply the power which the legislator does not grant here. Yeah, we even know the citizen's shot. When we see someone who threatens security, even citizens should take that person into the hands of the competent authorities, the police, immediately. That's how we compare it. But this detention is a procedural concept, defined in the regulations, and this authority is not received by the Marshal's Guard. He must immediately transfer the person concerned to the police for further action. Dog service... I don't know how to comment on that. Yeah, 'cause they're kind of scared of themselves. What's that for? Service dogs are designed to recognize the dangers associated with the presence of explosives. E.g. prior to the sitting of the Sejm or Senate rooms should be checked, just as it can be done professionally. Service dogs do that, too. But there will be no service dogs at the Sejm and Senate meetings in the hallway. Senator, the guard at the Marshal's Watch won't follow you with a service dog. Well, please don't... [[...he's gonna get scared...]] Please don't bring up the situation... [[He's gonna get scared...]] Don't call me... May I? Because we're talking at the same time. Don't bring up the cabaret situation. Well, don't turn this discussion into a cabaret, really. Senator, you're welcome, no one here... [[The police are already here...]] Well, she didn't walk into the senator's office with her dogs. Don't exaggerate. I've already told you about the service's cooperation. I'm sorry, at first you said that sentence, which I didn't write down, that was the first point of your speech. Excuse me, I didn't get a chance to write it down. [[It was this shot or stop, the second question was about dogs and the third...]] This involves means of direct coercion, so that they are defined... [[...co-operation, but it's you too...]] Not all measures of direct coercion, not the whole set of these measures of direct coercion receive in this law Marszałkowska Guard, only some, which are necessary for carrying out the tasks imposed on it, so e.g. the official horse does not receive. There's no service horse here. [[I know, maybe...]] You want a work horse, we can make an amendment. [[But dogs are gonna come in handy when someone's stoned...]] [[Once upon a time, and in the Senate...]] There isn't. There's a service dog. I told you why, didn't I? Handcuffs Yeah. But the handcuffs are and now the Marshal's Guard owns them. [[But hands behind your back...]] According to the law on arms and direct coercion, Senator. [[No tasers.]] Taser's not on that list. That's right, Senator, I know what I was gonna say. I wanted to thank you very much for justifying the existence of the Senate. [[Yes?]] Are you with the P.O.? [[Of course.]] After all, the Civic Platform was bringing in whole cartons of signatures to liquidate the Senate to take you out. [[But I was against it.]] She didn't do it. The senate is needed. We as Law and Justice were opposed to the liquidation of the Senate. And I am pleased as a representative of this group that there is a Senate and that it improves the laws. Thank you so much for that. [[Dogs are needed in boxes...]] And your party wanted to liquidate the Senate. [[Like I said...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u200	The Minister replied. We'll move on to the next question. You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u201	Well, Minister, I'm a little different from you about whether the Senate is needed or not. You say the Senate amends the bill. Yes, but it only improves in terms of what is reported by the Senators of Law and Justice. That's how it's been so far. Although my amendment passed once, yes, it passed in the Senate, but then it turned out that it had been rejected in the Seym. So that there are no such cases. Minister, today we have received another clear signal that everyone, whatever he has done in his life, if he has made any decisions, must be careful, especially he must be careful at 6:00 a.m., because he may be searched, he may be detained. In the case of Members and Senators, as you said, the situation is different because we will be stopped. You can't. But now I'll be back... We've had this case in the Senate lately, and I'm going to give you an example, random initials, S.K., some senator, senator or senator, and it turns out that the Senate has made a decision to stop it. Therefore, I have a question, Minister, because you used such nice terminology here, said about taking and stopping. If such a decision were made, and it is to be expected that such decisions will be made, whether in this case the Marshal's Guard will be able to capture this senator... [[With the Marshal's permission.]] ...and bring... Now the question is, where? Senator Grabowski, the Senator rapporteur was talking about this border, that he was afraid to go outside the Sejm. In that case, will the guards be able to lead this person to the border? 'Cause the Marshal's Guard was only on the Senate grounds. I don't know, to fence it up and hand it over to the police, will she be able to get that person to the police station? Minister, what will it look like after these regulations have been changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u202	Mr. Senator, I'm going to start by saying that when it comes to this 6:00 a.m., please remember that everyone has to obey the law. And once again, please don't bring up threads that aren't related to this bill... [[He was captured for a while.]] ...because we're going to have too much discussion. It can be taken, but not at this point. [[It was 8:00 in Moscow.]] It was 8:00 in Moscow at that time, as you say, the marshal. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's leave it. Laws must be followed. No status Maybe I'd still say that, in such a civil discussion with the senator. No citizen, whoever is a citizen, is immune to a situation in which he does not comply with the law. The State must treat all its citizens equally, and if someone is not responsible, then there are legal measures to do so. You know it, and I know it. We all have to agree that an organised country that cares about security and equality towards the law must operate this way. I don't want to squawk around here, but the senator asked me a question that would require some kind of diwag. Well, let's just make up for it for a second. It seems to me that if you recall what I said earlier, that you can't stop without the permission of the Seym, the Senate... There's one exception here. A hot deed. So if this were a situation of catch in the act, then Marshals' Guard officers could take action, which is to capture and hand it over to the police. That would be a shot, then a red-handed detention allowed in the regulations. That's the explanation I'm getting here. We continue to revolve around the same defined rights of Member and Senator. This law does not violate them in any way and does not change them in any way. What you're going to do with your questions, which means the situation of detention in the act... Well, the Marshal's Guard can't keep it red-handed. All he can do is capture and hand over to the other service, the police. [[But I wanted permission to stay in the Sejm, not...]] Mr. Senator, it's lucky it didn't happen for over a quarter of a century, because it's defective, but still parliamentary democracy, and I hope it never happens.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u203	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I am very obliged to you that this is the end. Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a joint discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Mammothov. [[Voice from the room: No...)]] That's the first one you'll be Senator Jerzy Wczyła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Proceding laws on the Marshal's Guard, despite the doubt of some senators, is a good opportunity to discuss the status of a uniformed officer in Poland. Legal logic suggests that these services should be treated in the legal system equally by firefighters, officers of the Marshal's Guard, Border Guard, prison services, intelligence, police officers of state protection and other services, including the Customs Service. Such logic is confirmed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 32. The constitutional principle of equality should be interpreted as an obligation to guarantee the same powers to all persons who have the same essential characteristics from the point of view of the legislation concerned. In this case, it is common that we are talking about uniformed officers. Unfortunately, new solutions for Customs officials were adopted during the creation of the National Tax Administration. Now they're treated differently than the other uniform officers. The fact that errors were made during the creation of the CS is evidenced by judgments of the courts, which often accord the applicants with the customs officers. Today we have a great opportunity to correct these mistakes. We are proceeding with regulations that concern both the Marshal's Guard and the Customs Service or the Customs-Scarb Service. I think here, among other things. to restore the application of the pension rights rules to customs and customs officers. As a result of the adoption of the amendments I will be discussing, all uniform officers will be subject to the same rules. High Senate, customs officers are the only officers in Poland who must reach the age of 55 to receive retirement. The lack of this requirement for other uniformed officers stems from the belief that working in uniform brings with it so much stress, tension and threats that it is necessary to allow an officer to retire when after 15 years of work he does not feel able to continue his service. But granting such powers, e.g. Guards of Marshals and other officers, and taking them away from customs officers means that we consider this justification to be right in the case of some officers and not justified in the case of others. And so on. officer at the Polish-Russian border, through which alcohol, cigarettes, sometimes people are smuggled where one smuggler sometimes carry goods worth hundreds of millions of zlotys, and for the protection of this product is able to do things to the customs officer, where anonymous threats to customs officers are on the agenda, according to the legislator he does not deserve early retirement, because according to the legislator, I understand It's no stress to receive a letter or SMS from which the customs officer learns that if he stops a given carrier again, read: smuggler, then he has to face the fact that his child or wife... Her name and name are written down which way she goes to work. High Senate, I live 40 km from the Polish-Russian border, I know customs officers and such stories I could quote a lot. But the legislators thought that the work of the Marshal's Guard officer was more stressful, dangerous and more generating tension, because there was one intrusion of the Polish citizen. And that's why a Marshal's Guard officer will have more pension rights than a customs officer. I, ladies and gentlemen, have nothing to do with the guards of the Marshal's Guard, but, Mr. Senator and Mr. Senators, let us not be ridiculed by introducing a requirement to achieve 55 years in the case of customs officers and exempting officers of the Marshal's Guard from this requirement. The amendments I have tabled do not change anything in the status and powers of the Marshal's Guard, but only equalise the powers of customs officers with them. Two of the amendments tabled concern the Law on the Marshal's Guard and another two the Law on the Marshal's Guard. The latter relate to the salary of the service in all uniform formations. The only thing that's out of this directory right now is the Customs Service. I really don't know what customs deserved such discredit. Of course, I am aware that the introduction of these amendments will require changes in several other legal solutions, but it should not be ours, the senators, that should be a problem. When the National Tax Administration Act was introduced, the Senators of the Civic Platform warned about the shortcomings of the Act. So whoever lets that logic in the law fix it now. I hope, High Senate, that all the senators will support my amendments, because they are logical. It also gives me the right to believe that during the procedure of the Marshal's Watch Act, the rapporteur confirmed this today. Senators a priori considered that the officers of the Marshal's Guard deserve the same privileges as all uniformed services, as I understand it. To customs. And let's be consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u205	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u206	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'd like to develop this idea that I've been trying to include. in questions to the Minister, because it addresses very important issues relating to formal immunity, which Parliamentarians have, including such an important issue as the immunity of a personal parliamentarians, which consists of a very large number of powers. And maybe I wouldn't have acted if it hadn't been for the history and events of the Seym many years ago. I don't want to go into thinking about who was the marshal, who had the majority, and who was in the minority, because that's not really what this is about, or at least it shouldn't be about that. This is where laws are built that are to apply regardless of who is in charge and which should, thanks to their quality, serve all who will benefit from this right. Namely, it is a situation in which the Marshal's Guard used violence against people who blocked the Seym Chamber. Just so we're clear, this isn't my political story. These people weren't part of my political camp, and it wasn't in any way related to my sympathies or antipathys, but such events once took place in the Seym. Under what rules could this have happened? Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator in Article. 10 and in particular paragraph 10. One and two... it's actually written from the constitution, from the article. 105 constitutions that talk about the formal immunity of a parliamentarian. Who could have made such a recommendation, a regulation? I don't mean to say it was an order. Well, the Marshal of the Sejm or the Senate does not have such powers, although the Senate's Rules of Procedure says that the Marshal in the course of the proceedings ensures compliance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, watches the seriousness and order of the sitting room, recalls the order etc. He has some powers of order, but in no case can it be argued that he has the right to recommend the Marshal's Guard to take action that violates parliamentary immunity. We are talking about this because, first of all, such events have already taken place in Parliament, and secondly, it is of vital interest to the senators. And rightly so, as I have already said, Minister, during the recent sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, which in part was sitting in secret mode, the Marshal's services, in my opinion, subjected the senators to certain too far-reaching actions. This may have affected their personal immunity, because it was too far gone with the fact that, so to speak, power in the powers of parliamentarians. And this is where I'm going to refer to this legitimacy, because the Minister has said hard that we can be ID'd. Well, there are, of course, certain accepted customs. Parliamentary culture defines relations between parliamentarians and the Marshal's Guard. It is clear that when someone turns to a parliamentarian who is first in the Seym or the Senate... Marshal's Guards, although they should, not always remember every person. In such a situation, it is necessary to show personal culture and this legitimacy, but this is not based on the rules, because the regulations... I refer to a commentary on the act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, in which Prof. Krzysztof Grajewski, the undisputed authority and perhaps the most outstanding... or at least one of the most prominent experts in the issue of the mandate of Member and Senator, referring to the scope of parliamentary protection, says explicitly that from the detention of the order mentioned by the Minister, i.e. detention in a situation where a Member or Senator violates important rules in a manner which requires intervention, it is necessary to distinguish between the legitimacy which consists in the temporary limitation of the freedom of a natural person by the competent authority requesting the presentation of an identity document. The Professor still refers to institutions that used to exist, writing that the right to legitimacy is primarily the police, the Office for State Protection. It is about the rules from the period when these institutions were still in operation. Or the Border Guard. Taking into account the broad understanding of parliamentary immunity, including any form of deprivation or restriction of the freedom of a parliamentarian, the provisions of the Act on the Implementation of the mandate are mentioned. We must state that legitimacy is unacceptable to a deputy with parliamentary immunity. And this is an interpretation of a scientist who thinks it's a form of repression, at least when legitimacy is unlawful. I have already mentioned that if someone does not recognize a parliamentarians, then of course he has the right to ask, and we have the duty of a culture of political life to show this legitimacy. But this is such a detailed consideration of this institution of legitimacy. It concerns more serious issues, such as possible clean-up measures that have happened to us in the past. I would like to state that, according to the interpretation of these regulations, if I would now start the occupation of this speaker, then the marshal sitting here or the Senate marshal has no right to force the Marshal's Guard to draw me from this speaker. That would be a crime resulting from the provisions which are directly in the Constitution and in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. I'm only talking about this because history already knows such cases, and because times are hard, difficult and risky, such temptation to knock It could happen. I hope it never happens. This does not only concern the current composition of the parliament and the current marshal, but all the warehouses and all the marshals in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u207	Thank you. The next speaker is Senator Rulewski. Absent... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is also absent. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] He's also absent... Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u208	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! What are some indications recently that a new police service should be set up for the Marshal's Watch? What happened? There was talk of history, about the fact that the Marshal's Guard has existed for many, many years. Now it is to be equipped, to have extended competence, as well as to be equipped with certain privileges. And the question is, what's happened, what's changed, that decisions like this have to be made now. The Minister mentioned two events that probably took place in 2014. Such examples of selective, individual... I remember the last time the billboards were shown that a judge stole something there. Such selective, single examples can easily be found. And that's the normal thing that happens. But what happened here, what's the threat? From the information I heard in the Seym, it appears that, above all, it is about what happened last December. You guys sometimes say it's a knock-off. Well, if I could find out what a knock is. This is a coup d'état, above all an armed coup d'etat, etc. The abuse of terminology of this kind is not advisable. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is Mrs Mucha...]] With regard to this coup, I would say that this coup was rather based on the fact that the deliberations had been moved to the Column Hall, which was against the rules. Anyway, there's no ruling on this case yet, so we'll wait and see what it looks like. But these are words you shouldn't use. What has happened, then, is that a new uniformed, properly equipped, armed service should be established at the moment. That's what the Minister was talking about. In handcuffs, etc.? What bothers me very much is that it is possible to conduct this pyro-radiological diagnosis. This service is expected to be extended by 120 posts in total to around 280 employees It will also have such specific security-related tasks. Well, it's a pyrotechnical diagnosis... It takes many years of experience, as I understand it. We had BOR, and now we have the State Security Service. There are people there who are experienced. Threats change, work techniques change, so you need to have specialized services. We want to specialize in such a small service. After all, she must gain experience, there must be people there who will be adequately prepared for all kinds of threats... I can't imagine that such a small service would be able to control all of this. The checks that had been done by specialists so far, in my opinion, were more secure and much better secure the area of the Sejm and the Senate. And what's that service gonna do? What will eventually change? You can't really see it, but I'm sure retirement privileges are important. So we're going to increase the number of jobs by 120. I understand that if there's a recruitment, then the jobs will mainly have people from other services, because they have more experience. So in my opinion it will be a little storage room, because the privileges will be the same, but it will be worth coming to the Marshal's Watch to work. And as for retirement privileges... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to say this to myself, so I'm going to leave with a two-year deadline back when the government changed after the election. What was it like? As most of the time, in my voivodeship, I think all the district commanders and fire chiefs were mentioned, but almost everyone took advantage of the privilege and retired. Persons between 48 and 50 years of age or 52 years of age. Because of the service, they have a pension at the level Just like I talked to you... Those people I know have about PLN 5,000 pension at the age of 50. Of course, we can pass these privileges on, just the question of who's gonna earn it all. Because if you give someone money, you have to take someone away. And the question remains whether such service must be. She's been functioning so far. It can be improved, it can be improved, but it needs to be equipped with wider competences and privileges. Of course, training will need to be done, for there is no doubt that training such a service is necessary if it is such a small group. It may be difficult to gain experience, but you can count on people who are experienced to come. But whether they will be able to guarantee safety at the level that we would expect in connection with this change, I am certainly in doubt. I think, after examining the entire law, etc., that these are indeed changes that do not bring anything special when it comes to security. Besides, the discussion here also showed this today. But there's no doubt that we're going to have another one, and I don't want to use terminology, a specialty, because that's not the point. These will be officers equipped with additional privileges in this regard. There's no danger, there's no danger that we have to be afraid. We survived December last year. There were more cops and cars around than we were inside the Sejm and the Senate, because the forces and means that were used at that time, with such an enigmatic threat, which is beyond doubt, were very large. So there's the police, which, in any event, if any action is taken in Parliament... The marshal's gonna be able to turn to the police anyway, and she's gonna turn anyway. She's gonna come in here and take action. In my opinion, these actions, these changes, which will not even enrich safety, will not feel better, and in the case of threats, for example. The pyrotechnics I was talking about, I'm afraid it's gonna be worse than it was, because we're not sure the servants can handle it. To sum up, I will also file a motion to reject both, i.e. both the Marshal's Guard Act and the introductory provisions, because I do not think this is the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u209	You have a voice, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u210	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I took the liberty of speaking because during the reporting of the committee's meeting, the thread for which I was prepared to discuss it, and which was raised at the committee meeting by Senator Wcisła, was not really discussed in detail. It's about the amendments proposed by the Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments aim at repealing the provisions laying down additional conditions for the right to retirement by customs and customs officers in terms of age, i.e. the age of 55 years, and the exercise for at least 5 years of so-called the police tasks referred to in Article. 2 (2) Point 1 of the Act of 27 August 2009 on the Customs Service, i.e. the tasks of identifying, detecting, preventing and combating offences and offences set out in the provisions of the Customs Service Act. The second aspect of the grant of the right to a uniformed pension to Customs officers for the period of duty in the customs administration before 1999. The whole case was initiated by the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 3 March 2015 on the signature of K 39/13, in which the Court ruled that Article. 1, Article Article 18a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 and Article 1 18b paragraph. 1 of the Act of 18 February 1994 on Pension Provision for Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families, in so far as the persons entitled to pension are excluded from the duties set out in Article. 2 (2) Point 1 of the Customs Service Act is incompatible with Article 4. 32 constitutions, i.e. the principle of equality. The amendments proposed by Senator Wczyła are in fact incompatible with this judgment, because it is in it that the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the five-year period of police duties... It follows from the operative part of the judgment that this is one of the criteria in the judgment of the Constitutional Court. In view of this judgment, a citizens' bill was introduced to the Sejm, which proposed the introduction of pension rights officers for all Customs officers regardless of the type of tasks performed, as in the Police. Well, it's just that in the case of the police, these are acquired rights. In the case of the Customs Service, these rights never existed, customs officers never had such rights. Government amendments have been taken into account during the parliamentary work, which have made a number of changes to the proposals set out in the citizens' project. According to the article proposed by the Government. 1 paragraph 2 Act on pension provision of officers for uniform pension may be sought by Customs officers, Customs and Treasury Service appointed for service after 14 September 1999 or whose employment relationship has been transformed into a service relationship pursuant to Article. 22b of the Customs Service Act or Art. The 99th Customs Service Act. The specific conditions for obtaining rights by these officers shall be laid down in the provisions of the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 and Article 3 15d and Article 15d 15e Act on the retirement provision of officers. The government party, pointing to the right of acceptance in the case of customs officers other than in the case of other servants, raised the following arguments... And here was the operative part of the Court's judgment, which it considered only customs officers carrying out the so-called. Police tasks, that is, fighting crime. The second option is to differentiate the legal situation of uniformed services due to the specific nature of the service, as demonstrated by the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment on the Customs Service of 19 October 2004. The law on government proposals was adopted on 11 May 2017. The amendments that have now been proposed are intended to return to the proposal included in the citizens' project. In such a case, there would be no distinction as to the pension scheme for Customs officers, resulting from the specific features of the service and customs officers, could have pensions calculated on the same basis as other uniformed services covered by the Staff's Pension Supply Act. The proposed amendments concern the amendment of the Article. 9 provisions implementing the Marshal's Guard Act, which amends the law on the pension provision of officers. They shall be subject to the amendment of point 7, as regards Article. 12 Act on the retirement provision of officers from which paragraph 1 is deleted. 2 and 3 concerning the Customs Service. A new wording of Article 7a is added. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 4 of the Act on retirement provision of officers according to which it is included in the service of years for calculating the uniformed pension period of the Customs or Customs and Treasury Officer's work in the customs administration before 1999. The introduction of such amendments implies that other amendments should be made to the Act. The introduction of the proposed amendments does not solve the problem, as the following provisions should be amended: Article. 1 paragraph 2, Article Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 15d, Art. 15e, Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Act on the retirement provision of officers; Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 point (1) (a) b the Law of 28 August 1997 on the organisation and functioning of pension funds, in so far as it refers to Article. 15e Act on the retirement provision of officers; art. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 Act of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, in so far as they relate to Article. 15d Act on Staff Retirement Provision. Proposed amendments, except for Article. 12, and their necessary consequences concern those provisions of the Pension Supply Act, which are not amended by the Act introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. According to the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal relating to the Article. Paragraph 121. 2 of the Constitution, the adoption of amendments by the Senate is limited by the framework laid down by the law adopted by the Sejm. In addition, during the examination of the draft law, the Sejm has extensive possibilities to modify it, and the Senate can only make amendments to the text adopted by the Sejm. Moreover, the work of the Senate can only be dealt with by a law of the content, shape and size that has been passed and there are judgments in these matters. In addition, when amending the amended law, the amendments adopted by the Senate of matter not expressly expressed in the text of the amending act constitute circumvention of the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 119 and Art. 121 constitutions. The exceedance by the Senate of the permissible scope of the amendments shall be eligible as a breach of Article. 121 of the Constitution, judgment in Case K 5/07. So the proposals for these amendments that have been tabled are overshooting which should be eligible as a violation of the Constitution. If the proposed amendments go beyond the scope of the law, they take the form of spontaneous legislative proposals, i.e. a separate initiative. Not that way, sir. Intentions may be good, for discussion, but not in this form. In addition, the limitation of the right to make amendments arises from Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution and relates to the financial framework of the Act adopted by the Sejm. And this proposal, Mr. Senator, your amendments that you're making... I would like to know what sources of funding you propose in connection with these amendments, so as to finance, so to speak, the effects of such amendments, which are de facto incomplete. If the amendments adopted by the Senate were to lead to an overrun of the financial framework, which could lead to a significant increase in the cost of implementing the law, it should be considered that such a proposal is not merely an amendment, but is a proposal of a new legislative initiative And here are the judgments of the Constitutional Court K 37/03 and K 40/05. And finally. The re-formation of the matter governing the principle of granting uniform pensions to Customs officers, as laid down in the Act on the pension provision of officers, by means of amendments to the Act, the provisions introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard go beyond the content of the Law adopted by the Sejm. It also goes beyond its financial framework. This matter may be part of a separate legislative initiative. So that unfortunately, Senator, the amendments you have tabled cannot be accepted, in the assessment of lawyers, together with this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u211	Thank you very much. [[May I? In the form of a replica, I'd like to...]] [[I thought it was me now.]] Here, in the form of a replica. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I regret that the proposals I made at the committee meeting on 6 or 7 February... I regret that on 14 February a comment or comment on these proposals is sent to the Senator of the rapporteur and no information is sent to me. The proposals were rejected, they were not discussed, it was at the request of Senator Garbowski that this happened, and today Senator Garbowski knows the negative justification for these proposals, and I, who made them, do not know the reasons for this. This is a new quality in the work of the Senate, which I regret. As far as funding is concerned, I think that the implementation of these proposals could be financed from the budgetary reserve. I do not believe that during the process of introducing laws or the Marshal's Guard Act it is not possible to change those articles which are in these documents, in these laws, and of which I have tabled a change. That's why I stand by my conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a serious amendment of the law, a major change of formation, which is called the Marszałkowska Guard and which has so far been a formation of order, but a civil formation. This is a change that gives this formation the right to a police force. No one's saying Special Forces clearance. In the preliminary discussion, I understand, there were various proposals, but it is good that the government withdrew from it because it raised the biggest reservations. But that doesn't mean that this bill is deprived of certain dangers that I'm going to talk about. Minister, once again here in the Senate, Deputy Minister of Government states: because this is not a government law, I do not take responsibility for it. Previously, it was said by Minister Jak about amending the IPN Act He just showed up, and I'm happy for him. When I asked why it was in the law that the crimes of Ukrainian nationalism were criminalised in the years 1925 and 1950, he replied: this was added by the Members, I do not know. But gentlemen, ministers, you come here with the bill and you answer as specialists. Because I understand that the Minister has come as a police specialist, a police officer. We ask you a question, and you say, no, it's not my bill, not the government's, some Members of the Sejm. Where maybe the majority has your party, they passed this law in committee and then at the Sejm meeting. This is a new custom, so to speak, implemented here in the Senate, that the minister comes and does this kind of stuff: no, it's not me, it's my colleagues. For me, the most important thing is art. 4, Article 4, which talks about the possibility of collecting and processing data by the Marshal's Guard, the new Marshal's Guard, concerning various types of threats, and information from which the Marshal's Guard will use, information about threats and persons about people, not just about threats It will be made available, i.e. from the resources of the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service, etc., etc., and from the resources of the Police, the Border Guard and other police services. Well, it could be all kinds of information, you can imagine that kind of information. It's not a pure theory. This information will be collected It's okay. With regard to security protection All of us, let them be gathered. But, first of all, there has to be a certain time, and here there's no time to keep this information. It is indicated here that every 5 years this will be checked, there will be data verification, but this verification is not a retention period. Secondly, the Marszałkowska Guard can process these various data without the knowledge and consent of the person concerned. Well, Minister, I believe that such information may also be collected about Members and Senators if they are a threat to security, but there must be at the same time the consent of the Marshal of the Sejm or the Senate at any time. He has to take responsibility for this. Minister, there is no exclusion here, no indication that such information cannot be collected about MEPs and senators, about parliamentarians. You say it comes from other laws. It's not from other laws, no, it's not from other laws. It's got to be introduced into this bill. The point is that there is also no ban on sending Members and Senators to search. There's art. 12, which provides that the guard may carry out personal checks, as well as review the contents of the luggage, check the loads, etc. It's a question of personal control. There is no exclusion from this control of Members and Senators. There should be a record here stating that you can, but in exceptional situations, and in fact you can't. Because here it's... As far as the search ban is concerned, we're all protected by immunity. What we have outside of each other is yes, a briefcase, etc., but if for example. We're gonna put the phone in the inside pocket, so no police or other servants can do a search like this and take that phone away from us. Therefore, as regards the first reservation, if you do not believe that it is necessary to exclude Members and Senators from data collection and aggregation, at least this must be done with the consent of the Marshal of the Sejm in the case of Members and the Senate Marshal in the case of Senators. And it's not just about information, but the Senate Marshal or the Sejm Marshal should know what's going on and take responsibility for allowing this kind of action. These are the fundamental issues that make me not voting in favour of this law if the reservations I am talking about are not taken into account here. It's different, but it's important. There's some inequality about the Sejm and the Senate. True, the Marshal of the Sejm must agree with the Speaker of the Senate on the scope and manner of carrying out tasks, but in other regulations... the competences which the head of the Sejm Chancellery... There are no proposals for the head of the Sejm Office to also perform tasks that determine the scope of tasks in agreement with the Senate Marshal. This law makes the inequality between the Senate and the Seym worse. That's my second reservation to the bill. There were voices here that we were afraid of the separation of parliament, the Sejm and the Senate, from voters, from communities, from audiences. We're not afraid of that. It's been like this for a year now. At the beginning of last year, the residents of Warsaw and visitors could move freely, pass through the building of the Sejm and the Senate. You can't do this anymore for a year. [[It's been ten minutes.]] Now you have to have passes. You guys shut up. I don't know why. One last thing. I must commend you here, of course, if that proves true, because I do not know exactly what will be decided... If the ideas of disguised officers of the Marshal's Guard in some uniforms from the 16th or 18th centuries, supply them with hallards and swords went to lamus, then I am glad of it. I'd be afraid it would just embarrass the House. I understand the Hungarian pattern. In Budapest, in parliament, there are guards or military men with swords and uniforms. We don't have to be as valuable as Hungary. Hungary is a small country. We're not Hungarians. That's why I'm glad the Marshal of the Sejm has given up the idea of dressing up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u215	Thank you. Mr. Professor Kazimierz Wind. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Marshal in the last paragraph has brought up new threads, but maybe I can get to the point. Gentlemen, the senators have just had a debate here about the amendments to the pensions of other services. Well, it's been known for a long time. There are judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal which severely restrict the scope of the amendments made by the Senate in the case of amendments to the laws of the Sejm. These are judgments limiting the scope of the amendments only to the content which the Sejm amends or directly related to them. This is the case here, i.e. the amendments tabled do not concern the matter amended by the Sejm or are related to it in any way. A separate matter is some verbal abuse, which is caused by the fact that everyone is expressing content without paying attention to what the previous speakers have said. E.g. Just now one of the senators speaking from this speaker spoke about the fact that handcuffs are being introduced for the Marshal's Guard, while several minutes earlier the Minister said that the Marshal's Guard has these handcuffs now. So I would urge you to limit yourself a little bit in these matters. I think that this last paragraph of Marshal Borusewicz, which says that Hungary is a small country and therefore must build additional attributes of its parliamentarianism, is far awkward and I would urge that such arguments should not be used in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u217	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Robert Mamytov and Czesław Ryszka made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Mr Piotr Florek, Mr Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Mr Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr Jan Rulewski and... [[No, no.]] No? Good. It's without Senator Grabowski. The joint discussion is closed. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to make a motion.]] Yes? [[I'd like to make a formal request. According to Art. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure request that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the death of Father Stanisław Streich...]] But that's in a second. [[...and consider...]] I'll finish this point. Okay, Mr. Senator? [[Oh, I thought you were done.]] Wait a minute. I thought you wanted to make a motion for this item on the agenda. We're gonna close this point, and then I'm gonna ask you to do it. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Very briefly. First of all, I would like to say very clearly that my words You have no Marshal Borusewicz, and he has spoken of this by your Marshal's misconception, they have been presented in false light, false interpretation and false semantics. I didn't say what Marshal Borusewicz assigned me. Namely, I didn't say it wasn't me, and my colleagues, I didn't say it was someone else who wrote, so I don't take responsibility. I was only talking about the fact that this bill is a parliamentary project, a committee project, not a government project, but I was also saying that there is no government position as a Council of Ministers, that we have accompanied as a department of home affairs and administration favorably with the work on this law and that this law supports that it is a law that strengthens the security of Parliament, the Sejm and the Senate. And that was the point of my speech. If anyone has doubts, listen to it, read it in a transcript, because that's what I said, and that was my intention. That's one thing. Secondly, I don't remember which senator was so ridiculous that we use the word "knock"... I don't know if it's Senator Florek, if it is, then... [[Yeah, it's me.]] [[Yes.]] You confessed to this, Mr. Senator, great, so I have a direct recipient. ...and that the knock has its definition, it must be an armed coup, etc. I would like to remind you, Mr. Senator, that your leader, your party leader, Mr. Grzegorz Schetyn, just said it was a coup. He's the one who defined it. We... [[Was he the first to say?]] You didn't see that? All the TVs recorded it, that was the wording of Mr Grzegorz Schetin, President of the Civic Platform. We talked about it, of course, but he confessed to it. So this is a very important declaration, an important statement. Everyone, all of Poland heard it and saw it. He admitted it was a coup. Maybe, Mr. Senator, it looks a little different today than the historical ones, maybe it's not armed, but other methods were aimed at the same thing. What was the goal of December 16th? To overthrow democratically elected power, to challenge democracy in Poland just by non-democratic methods. You couldn't vote on what you wanted in the Sejm, you couldn't block the deubecisation bill, first of all, we saw who was protesting under the Sejm with the Members and Senators of the opposition. Well, you've been occupying... i.e. Not you, of course, but the Members, your party colleagues occupied the speakerium. Of course, there was a discussion about what to do in such a situation. Well, immunity... Of course it's immunity. The Marshal's Guard couldn't do anything. We moved the proceedings to another Parliament hall, to a room that was available. We've passed these laws. A big scream spread across the country and across Europe for months, across the world, that illegally... Well, you guys have legally occupied the speaker, and we've illegally passed a bill somewhere else that was available. Well, fear the Lord. Let's really stop going back to this because it was a disgraceful situation for the Civic Platform and the opposition. [[The court is on the case.]] And I just... Yes. And now Mr. Marshal Borusewicz It's a shame he left again. He says that the Sejm is hard to access, that the police, that the barriers, that the accessibility is worse. Well, stop organizing those demonstrations that threaten security. not only the Seym and the Senate, but those who are there next to them who demonstrate who pass by. The state must ensure everyone's safety. We are responsible for this from the parliamentary elections, from the creation of a government, and we will do everything to make it safe. This is our duty as a public authority. And that's what the proper service is for. I would very much like to see such a situation, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal the absent Borusewicz, in which the police would really be relieved of all the duties we have to ask her to keep safe in this place around the Sejm and the Senate. Get away from these fights, it's the police that's gonna go after criminals, because that's her role. I'd like that. There are vacancies in the police, we can't fill all the vacancies. Those who are in the ministry must be helped to carry out their duties. Get away from the fight in Poland. There's democracy. There's a four-year electoral cycle. Get ready for the election. Win the election, you'll be in charge. You've been in charge for eight years. [[...under the Seym.]] You've been in charge for eight years. That doesn't lead to your victory. Yeah, that's why you should reflect, but that's your problem. But I repeat: we do not close the Seym and the Senate, we do not separate ourselves from society. We talk to people, we drive, we walk, we meet. You were the ones who organized the meetings closed to the officials before the election. We're with people and we'll always be with people. And one last thing, customs. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the defense attorneys have found customs officers. Civic platform defending customs officers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, you'd think who... eight years in charge, customs officers fighting for pension rights. I myself, as a Member of the Law and Justice, represented before the Constitutional Tribunal the interest of tax collectors applying for pension rights for rights in the supply system. Your representative wasn't there. I was there as a representative of the Law and Justice together with the Customs trade unions. The Court has ruled on the non-compliance with the Constitution to a certain extent. And this ruling, this judgment of the Court of Justice, has been consummated in the provisions that we have adopted in this term of office in connection with the establishment of the Customs and Customs Service. And today, this case is settled. It may not be regulated so that everyone is satisfied with it, but it is regulated in terms of the powers of the supply system for those who are qualified for the actions referred to in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. And it's a large group of Customs Customs officers. They had no PO-PSL coalition in their reign for eight years, neither these powers nor understanding nor any support. You guys were blocking. You as a political party, as a Civic Platform with PSL This is exactly what we're gonna do. I repeat: the Constitutional Tribunal, which you later defended by attacking the changes in the Court, the Court which you considered to be yours, has just ruled that this was not in accordance with the Constitution and we have regulated this issue. Today, don't wear the clothes of customs attorneys, because it's just fake. Don't do it, because people see it, people hear it. Customs can see and hear it, too. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, we should be talking about the legal matter, but since there have been various innuendoes here, I had to respond. And really stick to the facts, because the facts are known to people, amnesia no one has, we all remember how it was, who was pursuing what and who did what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u219	Thank you very much. Because... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm just here on a formal matter. I would like to say that Marshal Borusewicz is in a meeting with the French Senate Marshal, which is why he is absent. Because he emphasized here...]] I see. I see. Thank you very much. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled to point seven, i.e. the law on the Marshal's Guard, and to the eighth point, i.e. the Law of the Marshal's Guard Act, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. And there you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Then I'm gonna do this formula one more time. I request that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of Stanisław Streich's death and consider it as the last point. I would just like to point out that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, this point did not raise any controversy, the proposal was voted unanimously. Therefore, I would very much ask that such a point be introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u221	So it's the committee's report, right? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you very much. If I do not note the objection, I believe that the High House has agreed to this item on the agenda. I don't see why not. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and the Law on the Criminal Code. The text of the act is contained in print No 724, and the report of the committee In print No 724 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development... [[Louder, Mr. Senator.]] ...which the committees at the joint meeting examined over a government bill amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code. This law introduces solutions aimed at: tightening penalties for the killing of animals and the abuse of animals from 2 to 3 years of imprisonment and, in the event of this being done with particular cruelty From 3 to 5 years; the introduction by the court of a compulsory judgment for the protection of animals in the event of a conviction for offences against animals; an indication of the possibility of a judgment prohibiting the possession of a particular category of animals and preventing the performance of works, activities and activities related to the use of animals or the impact on animals of persons who have committed acts against them with particular cruelty. With a strong voice supporting the bill, the chairman of the Management Board of the General Animal Welfare Society in Poland spoke during the work of the commission. A brief debate took place during the work of the joint committees. The Legislative Office proposed one amendment which was supported by the Ministry of Justice and unanimously adopted by the joint committees. In the vote on the whole, the Act and the amendment, 22 senators voted in favour, 1 senator abstained. The High Joint Committees request the adoption of the law with this one amendment voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u223	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Patrick Jak with us today. Minister, would you like to take the floor to present the position of the government? You're welcome. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u224	Dear Marshal! High Senate! The government bill aims to increase the protection of animals. The most important elements of this project are, first of all, the introduction of an obligation to judge between PLN 1 000 and PLN 100,000 against people who abuse animals. At the moment, this is a punishment which is only optional and is in practice adjudicated by the courts very rarely. Now it's mandatory. This appropriation is intended to cover all non-governmental organisations that help animals. Thus, the means and possibilities of protecting animals will necessarily be increased by organisations that do so on a daily basis. In addition, we increase the penalty for animal abuse and killing animals. In the case of abuse and killing, we increase the sentence from 2 to 3 years imprisonment, and in the case of killing and abuse with particular cruelty, we propose to increase the sentence from 3 to 5 years imprisonment. We also make a number of corrections related to the possession of animals by persons who have been convicted of such crimes. We also prohibit the pursuit of animal-related professions by persons convicted of the provisions listed in the Act. I'm open to questions from the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u225	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[Excuse me, there's a question for Mrs. Rotnicka, but...]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. [[There's one speech to the protocol and one motion.]] I see. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The legislative proposal was made by Senator Marek Martynowski. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Mrs. Marshal, can you just ask?]] Yes. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u226	Because I'm interested in the Animal Protection Act... What is the proposal of Mr Martynowski, who tabled the amendment? If you can get an answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u227	He's probably already been transferred to the Legal Office, Senator. [[Oh, thank you. Unless Senator Martynowski...]] [[It's gonna be at the committee meeting.]] [[Except I'm not gonna be in this meeting. I'd appreciate it if I could get to know it. Thank you.]] [[The amendments are big, well, I'm not going to discuss them now.]] Thank you very much. I'm gonna announce a break in a minute, but I'm gonna need some messages now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u228	High Senate, meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the fifty-sixth Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Law on the Criminal Code No 724, will take place on 15 February 2018, at 12.30 p.m. in room 182 on Thursday. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted to the following laws: the Law of Entrepreneurs, Senate Printing No.715; the Act on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Enterprises, Senate Printing No.716, as well as the Law on the Law of Entrepreneurs and other Laws on Business Activity, Senate Printing No.719, will take place tomorrow, February 15th, at 8.30 p.m. in room No. 176. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted to the Marshal's Guard Act and the Law on the Marshal's Guard will take place tomorrow, 15 February, at 12.00 in room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-14-senat-56-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow at 1 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 18 minutes 10]]
