ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Mr Rafał Weber, Mr Marcin Duszek, Ms Monica Wielichowska and Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Rafał Weber and Mr Marcin Duszek. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Rafał Weber and Arkadiusz Myrch. I consider the minutes of the 62nd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. I would like to inform you that at the moment, students, children from the special school-education center for disabled people in Busku-Zdrój are listening to the proceedings. Welcome. [[Applause]] High Seym! The groups of Members have submitted proposals: - to express a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Social Committee of the Council of Ministers, Beata Szydło, - to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Elżbieta Rafalska. Applications are in print Nos 2495 and 2496 respectively. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the At its 62nd meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the committee's report on the Commission's draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union, prints 2427, 2484 and 2484-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering these votes. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the act on combating unfair competition and certain other laws. This is print number 2549. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers also submitted a draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and certain other laws. This is print number 2557. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The President of the Republic of Poland has submitted a bill on the establishment of the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century. This is print number 2555. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the National referendum law. This is printing number 1609. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Public Finance Act, - amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, - amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws, - amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, - about the tachographs. The reports shall be printed in 2543, 2539, 2553, 2542 and 2574 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on investments in the construction of a waterway connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk, - amending the Law on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2560 and 2562 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This is print number 2566. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted its position on the report on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer in 2016 and 2017. This is print number 2544. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle in a joint discussion in the first readings of the draft legislation on value added tax. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle in discussions on the reports: - from the activities of GIODO in 2016 and 2017, - from the implementation of the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the reports: - on the ratification of Draft Print Act No 2284, - on the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development concerning problems in the fruit and vegetable market, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Formal proposals have been made by Members. Member Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request that the sitting be adjourned until 3 p.m. 13, in order to enable the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński and the President of the Public Media Council, Mr Czabański, to provide the Sejm with information on the rules for financing the Polish Television, formerly known as the public. For some time now, we have had more and more doubts about the quality of the information programs presented on this television, but yesterday's information in the public journal, being an unprecedented unprecedented attack on the participants of the round table, both Kaczyński brothers, as well as the support of the Seym Club of Law and Justice, Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz, calls for vengeance to heaven. Can we load another one? [[Applause]] Hundreds of millions of zlotys... More than a billion have been targeted at public television, which in this scandalous way attacks the leaders of Law and Justice. That's why it seems to us that by the hour. 13... It is about how this medium will be financed, how it will be controlled, so that information such as yesterday's, about the conspiracy of the elite in which they participated, as I say, Jarosław and Lech Kaczyńscy and Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz, never again from the mouth of journalists of Polish Television, once called public, rained. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u3	Thank you. Only, sir, this proposal does not concern the agenda, so that I am very sorry, I cannot consider this proposal to be formal. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. I'd just like to ask that the motion be made on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I would like to ask you to take a break. The point is that the marshal should convene the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention and put on the agenda a point on the explanation by Mr Glinski or Minister Sellin of what happened yesterday. June 4th is a holiday. It is a holiday of free, democratic Poland. You have acknowledged, in the words of the public television transmission, that this is the day of treason and the day of conspiracy of the elite. It's just a scandal. Not only do you buy voter votes with our money - the pencil case - it's our money you insult us, you insult the society that in sixty Several percent went to the elections and celebrated this day as the day Poland regained its freedom. What are you doing? [[Applause]] You accuse Lech and Jarosław Kaczyński of being traitors. Then say it straight - unfortunately it is. I can tell you one thing. [[Voice from the O.R.: Heal!]] If the Germans had television like TVP, they wouldn't know they'd lost World War II to this day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u5	Thank you very much. It follows from the explanatory memorandum that I, too, cannot consider this proposal to be formal. Let me remind you that art. Paragraph 184. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are clear: formal requests may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. [[Voice from the Chamber: But the agenda is the subject of...]] The agenda has been established. Requests to the agenda - also under the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure state - must be submitted by noon to the meeting on the eve of the meeting. 21. So I'm so sorry. These are very interesting issues, yes, but I cannot accept them as formal proposals. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u6	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 11, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 2.30 p.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Legal notice - hour. 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 17, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 18, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 8:30. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 15. The Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families invites you to a screening of the film entitled: Big things I'm going to do for you Polish at an hour. 6:30 p.m. in the conference room in the new House of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u7	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of items 1st of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Public Finance Act (Prints No. 2449 and 2543). I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the finance committee on the government bill amending the Public Finance Act, print No 2449. The project entered the Sejm on 11 April 2018. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 13 April, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading. The first reading of the committee was held on 10 May. The draft envisages full implementation in the national legal order of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on the requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States. The Member States of the European Union were required by 31 December 2013 to implement this Directive. In the Polish legal system, one of the key solutions for the implementation of the Directive was the amendment of the Act of 27 August 2009 on public finances in 2013. This amendment introduced the convergence programme into the Polish legal order - as part of the State's Multiannual Financial Plan. The obligation to prepare it has not yet been regulated in Polish law. In addition, part of the requirements of the Directive have been introduced in the Polish budgetary process, including: as regards macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts or the medium-term budgetary framework, and in Article. The 112aa Public Finance Act has defined a stabilising expenditure rule, which has allowed consistency between the national and European fiscal framework. In 2016, the European Commission launched an informal dialogue with the countries of the European Union within the framework of the so-called. EU Pilot to assess the implementation of the Directive. In the case of Poland in June 2017, the European Commission pointed to incomplete transposition of the following requirements of the Directive. These are: firstly, a presentation of the comparisons between the forecasts of the budgetary authorities and the forecasts of the European Commission, Article. 4.1 With regard to annual budgetary documents, secondly, the presentation of sensitivity analysis in government forecasts, Article. 4.4, for annual budgetary documents and, thirdly, for the assessment of government forecasts, Article. 4.6. As a result, the contested law provides for the introduction of an obligation in the explanatory memorandum attached to the draft law to include information on the macroeconomic scenario and its comparison with the most recent forecasts of the European Commission and other independent institutions, secondly, to take action in the event of significant deviations affecting macroeconomic forecasts over the next 4 years prior to the development of the macroeconomic scenario and, thirdly, analysis of sensitivity to government deficit and debt, sovereign government debt and the level of expenditure referred to in Article. 112aa paragraph. 1 Public Finance Act, with different assumptions on growth and interest rates. It is proposed that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The proposed date of entry into force of the Act will provide a rapid complement to the implementation of all the requirements of the Directive in the Polish legal order, while respecting the requirements of the Article. 4 of the Law of 20 July 2000 on the publication of normative acts and certain other acts. At the same time, it was proposed that the provisions of the Public Finance Act in the new burden should apply for the first time to the draft budget law for 2019 and the annual report on the implementation of the budget law for 2019. During the work on this draft law, there was a doubt whether the inclusion in the Polish legal order of this law does not introduce overregulation, because - as one of the Members noted - we put in the bill something that we should implement anyway. The Finance Minister confirmed that, in fact, all these three elements are currently included in the justifications of the Budgetary Act, but since the European Commission does not examine practice in the Member States in the process of examining the implementation of the Directive, but examines whether the provisions of the Directive are included in the Public Finance Act of the country concerned and to avoid the risk of financial sanctions resulting from the assessment by the European Commission that the provisions of the Directive have not been implemented in national law, the Government has submitted to the High House a draft of this Act. Following the adoption by the committee of one linguistic amendment and the unanimous vote of the various articles of the draft law, the Public Finance Commission also unanimously adopted the entire law. After first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 10 May 2018 on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u9	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Law and Justice Club on the governmental draft law amending the Public Finance Act, presented to the High House in print No 2449. The draft law submitted by the Government aims at a full, 100% transposition into national law of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on the requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States. The draft law amending the Public Finance Act, contained in print No.2449, is the government's response to the European Commission's recommendations made in relation to Poland following an analysis of the current level of implementation into Polish law of the various provisions of the directive. The Commission expects the Member States to include in the Public Finance Act the literal provisions requiring that the explanatory memorandum of the Budgetary Act contains three additional elements: firstly, a description of the macroeconomic scenario and its comparison with the most recent forecasts of the European Commission, secondly, information on the actions that will be taken if the adopted macroeconomic forecasts are not fully operational - and here it should be stressed that the practice so far indicates that the adopted macroeconomic projections are confirmed, well valued - and thirdly, analysis of deficit and debt sensitivity. Until now, without the provision in the Public Finance Act, this information contained in the explanatory memorandum of the Budget Act has been provided by the Ministry of Finance for many years. However, the European Commission, when examining the level of implementation of the provisions of the Directive, does not examine the practices in the country concerned, but is interested in the extent to which the law resulting from the Directive has been transferred to, for example, Polish legal order, and in this case to the Public Finance Act. When analysing the scope of implementation into national law of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November on the requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States, the European Commission in nine countries found inaccuracies. In conclusion, although the current procedure for preparing the budget, which is to act in accordance with the principle of good practice, meets the expectations of the European Commission as set out in the Directive, there is a risk that the absence of these specific provisions in the Act may at some time lead to the failure to provide the information required by the Directive. Secondly, the introduction of the rules submitted by the government ensures that 100 percent of the provisions of the Directive are introduced into the Polish legal order. Thirdly, the failure to implement the directive threatens financial sanctions, and we want to avoid it. Fourthly, after they have been introduced into the Public Finance Act, the procedure for justifying the budget law becomes transparent and clear. Given all this, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Minister! We are discussing an amendment to the Public Finance Act. This is another amendment of the Public Finance Act, except that I immediately wanted to say that the Public Finance Act is not the most frequently amended Act, as far as at least this package of laws is concerned, which are under the responsibility of the Committee on Public Finance. We change tax laws on indirect taxes and direct taxes much more often - they have been amended several hundred times - than the law on public finances. When we changed the Public Finance Act, we made quite significant changes, e.g. In 2013, in the amendment of the Public Finance Act, we concluded such a solution to include the convergence project, the convergence programme, in the Multiannual Financial Plan of the State. Then we also typed in a stabilizing spending rule. These were extremely important records that continue to work today. The change we are discussing today is relatively minor. The bill isn't extensive either. The aim of the law is to implement the European Directive into our legal order. In fact, this law requires the government to provide in the draft budget law data on the result and debt of the general government according to the Union methodology. This is important because the methods of administration of these results have so far differed. If we implement this law, these methodologies will be the same. This is particularly important for possible comparisons. All these statistics transmitted to the European Union, to Eurostat, will be comparable. What do we include in the bill? We actually include one thing in the bill, namely the definition of a macroeconomic scenario. Maybe I'll read a piece of the bill because it's pretty important to me. The Act states that the macroeconomic scenario means a scenario presenting realistic macroeconomic forecasts. This realistic word is quite important, because - I have already mentioned this at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance - I believe that this law is not really necessary, because if it were not, the government would also be obliged to present realistic and true data. This law somehow obliges the government to give real indicators, which means that the government simply tells the truth. If in the Act we must oblige the government to speak the truth, at least in terms of macroeconomic indicators, then we, as Platform, have no objection to this and will vote in favour of this Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are dealing with the implementation of EU law. We are a little used to the fact that EU directives usually regulate the lives of entrepreneurs, which makes it harder for them to live. Here we can be positively surprised, because it is not about obstructing the lives of entrepreneurs, regulating their sphere of business, but about regulating matters that are within the competence of the Ministry of Finance and precisely us, Members. This law regulates, requires additional information, additional justifications, additional definitions in the Budget Act prepared by the Ministry of Finance. So, on the one hand, the Ministry, the Minister, will have to write more in this law, especially in the explanatory memorandum, and we as Members will have to read more. But that is very good, because that means that citizens will have more information about how we manage their own money, and in particular what is indicated in the project, they will have more reliable information about how we owe citizens. I say "my" but I mean the ruling groups: Law and Justice, Civic Platform, SLD, PSL. All these groups over the years have led to the fact that Poland is in debt - this is information prepared by the Civil Development Forum - attention, to PLN 1050 billion. It's just an open debt. There are 27 660 PLN per capita. But if that were not enough, the hidden debt amounts to as much as PLN 3294 billion, or 86 thousand. PLN per capita. This means that every newly born person, every child born in Poland, is born with a huge gift from the state, from politicians, a gift in the form of a huge, 86 thousandth debt. I hope that this requirement of the European Commission, which also makes it necessary to use, based on data from the European Commission, from Eurostat, will help citizens to recover from this futility and see how much we are indebted to politicians as a society. I also hope that Members will read the justification of the budget law more carefully and will pay attention to how the next budget laws, like the next deficits, are going to be, because I will remind you that since 1990 we have had a chronic budget deficit, as these deficits are simply indebted to the next generations. So that Kukiz15 is uniquely concerned with the implementation of the European Commission directive in favour of this project, so that citizens are more aware. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The aim of this project is indeed to fully implement the provisions of the 2011 Council Directive on the requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States in the national legal order. The project clarifies certain issues, including: implementing the definition of the macroeconomic scenario. It is indeed absurd that we have to write in the bill that the government is to provide realistic economic data, consistent with those that are, among others. forecasted by the European Commission, but we have lived to such a time that we cannot, as you can see, be sure. In fact, the project foresees that information on the macroeconomic scenario and its comparison with the most recent forecasts of the European Commission will be implemented, deviations will be examined, negative impacts on macroeconomic forecasts in the last 4 years, and sensitivity analysis will be carried out on government deficit and debt, sovereign government debt and expenditure levels. Nevertheless, it seems that a certain problem in Poland is stability in assumptions and above all in the calculation of state expenditure and revenue. The changes at the beginning of the government's operation of the definition of the expenditure rule are really wondering whether, in the future, when we repair the country after the PiS, we will not need for example. such an expenditure rule to include in the Constitution or to consider other regulations which could make the rule actually a rule and cannot be amended by any subsequent government. But on this occasion it is also worth mentioning what citizens are constantly thinking about, namely what is the real debt of our country and what is really included in public debt and what is not. Here we are here to clarify and clarify the definitions of public debt and deficit, which are to comply with the definitions of Eurostat. To this day we had two levels of public debt in Poland: one according to the methodology used in our legal order, the other according to Eurostat methodology. Today, these methodologies will be harmonised, but such a key issue and a key problem is that part of the debt is still incurred outside the budget and outside the public debt. These are among others. appropriations - incurred in the form of loans - in the National Road Fund of nearly PLN 40 billion, the obligations of health care establishments operating under the NFZ, which are not included in public debt, and which are also borne by public entities and thus by citizens as contributors to contributions to these entities. These are also obligations of the Social Insurance Fund, which are already calculated at more than 3 billion, and the proceeds are calculated to a slightly smaller extent. Thus, there is a great deal of unscalable areas in the officially reported public debt. One day it would be worth wondering in what form This is to ensure that successive governments do not lend to countries outside of public debt, except in such a way as to place loans, whether in some funds, in health care units under the NFZ or in any other way. Because really, someday, in the future, this debt will have to pay off the citizens. In fact, it can be said that it's not us anymore, it's the next generations - our children and grandchildren. Leaving such a debt - to this unaccounted for - to future generations - is simply irresponsible. Today, the Law and Justice Government is responsible for this irresponsible policy, but it seems desirable to implement amendments to the Public Finance Act. In fact, this is a step towards the full implementation of the 2011 European Council Directive, and the modern solution will support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u17	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Public Finance, print Nos 2449 and 2543. The project aims to implement European Union law. Its first reading took place at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. The project complements Poland's implementation of Council Directive 2011/85 of 8 November 2011 on requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States. The implementation of this directive was carried out by the Act of 8 November 2013 amending the Public Finance Act and certain other laws. Following an examination of the documents on the implementation of this Directive, the European Commission has pointed to the incomplete transposition of the three requirements of the Directive. These were, firstly, the presentation of comparisons between the forecasts of the budgetary authorities and the forecasts of the European Commission for annual budgetary documents, secondly, the presentation of sensitivity analysis in government forecasts, and thirdly, the assessment of government forecasts. In fact, as is apparent from the analysis of our existing documents, these issues are raised in our studies and are therefore being carried out and are not explicitly enshrined in the Public Finance Act. The Union suggests that this should be done, so in order to prevent the resolution procedure, the government has prepared this draft law, which aims to fully implement the provisions of the Directive in its national legal order. The draft law foresees the introduction of a definition of a macroeconomic scenario and the obligation to include information on the macroeconomic scenario and its comparison with the forecasts of the European Commission and other independent institutions, to take action in the event of any significant deviations and sensitivity analysis in terms of government deficit and debt, as well as government debt, with different growth and interest rates assumptions. The draft law also requires that this information be provided in accordance with a specific methodology, thus giving the possibility to compare data between the Member States of the European Union. The draft law does not produce financial consequences, and gives this guarantee of comparability of macroeconomic forecasts, which are assessed in the conditions of Poland by NIK and BAS. During the first reading of the project, no substantive changes were made, only slight editorial changes. My parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u19	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. It's the only one so far. Time - one and a half minutes. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u20	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Everyone said they were in favour of this provision. However, I would like to draw attention to the discreet embarrassment in the course of budgetary work. The state, on the one hand, boasts of revenue and sealing, and on the other hand, no one - Prime Minister Morawiecki - also - did not say what debt we have. So I'd like to ask you what kind of debt we're in. There have been remarks here that there is debt, there is public debt - the National Road Fund, debt in health, debt in the Social Insurance Fund, debt in local governments - and therefore it is worth to say and it is worth to let the public know this information, whether it is 3 billion. Public debt billion, 3 billion total debt. I would also like to ask you what you think about passing on in shorter periods of time than European legislation requires, in this respect, which we have been talking about in the introduction of the regulation today. And one last thing. The change in exchange rates has recently been recorded in the market, but I would like to hear from the Minister how this will affect public debt incurred abroad, i.e. foreign debt, and what its impact will be. It's important before work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the implementation of the 2017 budget and in the context of its impact on 2018. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u21	Thank you. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this debate. In fact, this case, this bill, is, you can say, small weight. This is a very technical project adapting the Polish Finance Act to the obligations arising from the directive and more such obligations, you can say, strictly formal, because practice has been so for many years that all these duties have already been performed. Mrs Zub has already mentioned this. As regards the doubts about debt, as Mrs Skowrońska asked, this law does not actually make any changes contrary to what was said in the methodology. Indeed, we have a committee methodology. [[I asked, Minister, how much.]] Sure. Regarding debt levels - and here we are talking about government debt in relation to GDP at the end of 2017, this is the European methodology - that was 50.6% So that was about a billion zlotys. Of course, this level is higher than according to national methodology, because the European methodology also includes a debt that results from the issuance of BGK funds. Debt decreased by 3.5% , which is actually from 54% just dropped to 50.6%. This is an important achievement. It is clear that public debt is falling in 2017. And, of course, this case is not critical because the rule of law and justice is gradually reducing the level of debt. This was even achieved at nominal level in 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Skowrońska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u24	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I was talking about this discreet embarrassment. When we talk about statistics, it looks nice, but my question - I think it's well addressed - was about quotas. I asked him how much he owed in gold, how much he owed to the public. I asked how much it was in zlotys and if it was true that the entire public debt was over 3 billion, so debt, public debt and total debt. There are young people sitting in the courtroom, telling them nothing 53%. He's talking to us because we're on the committee. Young people do not know if they will pay for one citizen 28 or 80,000 in the future. the debt owed. It's important. Statistics has it to do with that it's possible to write [[♪ The bell ♪]] the constitutional thresholds and the juggling of these data. I ask honestly, as a honest man asks, how much is public debt in zlotys and all debt in zlotys, whether it is true that it is over 3 billion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u25	Okay, thank you, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Madam, this is the number that has been mentioned... [[Amount.]] ...is PLN 1003 billion. PLN 1003 billion. Thank you very much. [[It's a public debt.]] It's a public debt. [[What about total debt?]] This is a public debt arising from the issuance of all bonds, loans taken out by the Treasury. This is PLN 1003 billion after the fourth quarter of 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u27	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Mrs Maria Zuba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I would like to thank all the clubs for their smooth work on this law and their declared support during the voting time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u29	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws (prints No. 2459 and 2539). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report. Well, the Sejm at its 62nd meeting on 9 May pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. At the same time, the Sejm set a deadline for drawing up this report on 5 June, i.e. today, 2018. The Infrastructure Commission, after considering the draft law at its meeting on 10 May, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft. During the discussion on 10 May, eight amendments were tabled by the Member of the Civic Platform, which were subsequently accepted as minority proposals because they did not receive the recognition of the majority of committees. On the other hand, three amendments tabled by the Minister of Infrastructure were accepted at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. This is the report on print 2459 after the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. At the same time, I have a question because, Mr. Marshal, I'm going to be performing for the parliamentary club, and it's actually hard to say. here about something new, and I have an amendment to make on his behalf. Can I present it to you now or later?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u31	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u33	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u34	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Presenting the position of my club, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, in relation to the draft law from Seym Printing No. 2459 on the amendment of the Road Transport Act and some other laws, I said that any support for it is linked to a further stage of the process and the possibility of removing environmentally harmful entrepreneurs in the field of road transport regulations contained in it. A government project implementing Commission Regulation (EU) No 403 of 2016, a regulation determining the types and gravity of individual infringements of Community law, unfortunately goes much further in its proposals than the requirements resulting from that Regulation. It turns out that the proposals for new regulations have been prepared without consulting the environment of road transport operators. Unfortunately, the amendments tabled during the examination of the project at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee did not find recognition of the parliamentary majority. These are included today in the report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, acting as minority proposals. It is incomprehensible to increase the level, the amount of penalties imposed by up to 100% in certain cases, as well as the replacement of the offence mode when imposing penalties by administrative procedure. As Minister Chodkiewicz, a representative of the government, at the end of the committee meeting on which the report was adopted, which you spoke about just now, after the adoption of this report, has nevertheless declared that negotiations have been initiated with the carrier environment, I hope that such negotiations have taken place. Perhaps their results are included in the proposals for amendments made by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. So the final position of my club depends on these proposals, on the effects of these negotiations and possibly on the inclusion of our proposals as minority proposals. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u35	Thank you very much. And Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out, first of all, that the social side that was present at the committee meeting has expressed itself very negatively about this project, so I propose that we continue to look at it and, nevertheless, take its views into account, because we cannot lead to the situation that we will be hitting our own economy, the transport sector that is really strong in Europe. I understand that we need to introduce EU regulations, but this project goes much further and imposes additional penalties on entrepreneurs, which we believe to be inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws following the submission of the committee's report. These are prints 2459 and 2539. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, which was sent to the High House, consists of two parts. The first part is the part related to adapting our regulations to EU law, to a number of regulations. And it is, of course, most appropriate that these regulations, which are mandatory from the point of view of European directives, which must be implemented in the national law of the Member States, should be implemented. And that is indeed the case in this case. Part, as I said, of this project contains these regulations - that's good - while there is also the second part of this project, which is a domestic product. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a barrel of the earth that the PiS government is now handing over to the transport industry. It is outrageous in our view that these two independent issues, namely EU regulations, which need to be implemented, and national ideas, which should be very thoroughly discussed, are combined into one project. The public has the impression that these sharpenings, these penalties, these new taxes, these obstacles to entrepreneurs are caused by EU thought. However, the truth is that the minimum part is actually caused by the EU's thought, while these penalties, these administrative burdens, these additional responsibilities are all national inventions of bureaucrats. Unfortunately, this cannot be accepted, it is absolutely necessary to criticize it. I, to tell you the truth, see in this also some kind of lack of courage from the government to discuss those solutions that the government wants to present. Because it is very easy to say that this is an EU project, that these are responsibilities, but if it comes to discuss these national ideas, there is no one to discuss with. In this context, I would like to say two things that are outrageous in this project. The first point is to change the method of assessment of infringements identified by the State services and the related sanctions imposed on workers carrying out road transport management activities. This change makes it easier for the officials. We should work in such a way that entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, Poles have easier. On the other hand, the government is still proposing rules that make it easier for officials. As a result of the adoption of these provisions, they will no longer have to examine thoroughly whether a particular person is responsible for the infringement. If they find a breach, they'll be able to punish the company without investigating if there was any fault. This is, ladies and gentlemen, unfair. In practice, of course, it has been difficult for officials, but officials are from proving guilt rather than objectively claiming guilt and punishing an entrepreneur who has no clue. This is absolutely beyond certain limits and we are very negative about this proposal. The second point is to increase the level of penalties imposed on workers and employers in the transport sector. Ladies and gentlemen, or this is the subject, I would say, some kind of consensus and social agreement, or it works against the industry. After all, our transport industry is very systematically burdened with further responsibilities from partners in different countries, where it operates, while the state, the PiS government, rather than supporting this industry, helps it to overcome the difficulties that are encountered on the roads of the whole European Union, not only that it does not do so, but also imposes more and more penalties. Of course, we absolutely cannot agree with this, in our view, this is unacceptable. I will skip the public consultation procedure for this project, because it was the way it was usually for projects from the Government of Law and Justice, i.e. illusory. In view of the fact that some amendments have been tabled, of course [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will address these amendments and take a decision before the vote, after examining them. However, at this point in time I must say that in such a formula, in this respect this project will absolutely not receive our support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u39	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski presented his position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. Time for the question - one and a half minutes. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the committee's meeting, a very turbulent discussion took place during the examination of the project, in particular as regards the level of penalties imposed and, of course, the procedure for imposing those penalties. It was well received by the members of the committee by Minister Chodkiewicz's declaration. And I would just like to ask the Minister the question: Have these negotiations actually been held and what is the effect of these meetings? Since the President has tabled amendments, but he has not discussed these amendments, I would like to know in which direction They're on their way. Is this really the project, or do the regulations contained in this project meet the expectations of entrepreneurs? I would like to stress very strongly that this is one of the few industries in our country that have been built by the efforts of entrepreneurs without state aid. Therefore, today instead of draining these entrepreneurs, we should simply support them together. This sector of the economy accounts for more than 12% GDP. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u41	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I confirm Mr Zmijan's words. We will always stand up for the transport industry, because this is an example - I think one of the few - of the industry that carried the burden of fighting for the European Union's markets on its shoulders. And not only that, because our companies drive all over Europe. Absolutely it should be the eye in our political class's head, ladies and gentlemen, it should be the eye in our head. Meanwhile, we have more burdens, and that is exactly what I would like to ask the Minister. Minister, this project will make it easier for the officials. I would like to ask why the activities of your department are aimed precisely at facilitating the work of officials, not facilitating the activities of transport companies, the transport industry, logistics and shipping. After all, it is not officials who create a national product, it is not de facto officials who create this tissue, which makes our country more and more affluent, that there are taxes, that this country is something to keep, just entrepreneurs. The question is why your activities are not aimed at helping entrepreneurs to operate this business more easily so that they can develop not only in Poland, but on the market of the whole European Union, the whole of Europe, but also to facilitate the work of officials. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u43	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The punishments always inspire forces and we look at them differently, but according to the Ministry, this package, which we presented for work in committee, is quite appropriate to today's times. I would like to say one thing: in Europe, penalties for non-compliance with road transport rules are much higher. When it comes to, for example, Oh, France, this driving without a license in France costs 18,000. Euros. Our punishments are the lowest in Europe. As regards the question of the President, we had a meeting with the carriers. The carriers have accepted our arguments. We agreed to continue talking about these changes and to continue explaining them to each other. So that we haven't dropped the subject, we'll continue to talk to the carriers. As to the question whether Mr Suchon's thesis is correct, I will say that the officials will have a harder time because the administrative decision makes it possible to appeal against the procedure. These official activities can be longer and for officials more vulnerable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u45	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bogdan Rzońca, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u46	Thank you very much, Marshal, for the discussion. Of course, it has not yet been mentioned in this discussion that this law causes the abolition of discrimination against Polish carriers, which occurred in comparison with the situation of foreign carriers. On the basis of the existing legislation, Polish carriers could simply lose the so-called. A good reputation, and foreign people don't. We must also talk about this so that we are objective in all the complexity of this problem. I also stress what the Minister said, that penalties must be inevitable. There's 200,000 in Germany. The euro, and here we are talking about 12 thousand. It's a pretty big difference. I don't think it is necessary to create such a situation that the Law and Justice, the committee or the Sejm wants to discriminate against Polish carriers. This has nothing to do with discrimination, rather we are dealing with ordering. Nevertheless, all of you in the Committee on Infrastructure have been very grateful and, of course, I invite you to take further legislative steps.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u47	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u48	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on road transport. The draft amendment of the law provides for better supervision of the transport services market in Poland. It also eliminates unfair competition between carriers and ensures greater protection of the internal market against unfair competition from non-EU carriers. It also clarifies the existing rules on checks on compliance with road transport obligations and conditions. According to the project, the so-called category was categorized. serious violations of obligations and conditions of carriage by road: the most serious infringements - NN, the very serious infringements - BPN and the serious infringements - NSA. This will allow the automatic exchange of information between Poland and other EU Member States on serious infringements of EU rules (and their qualification) which may lead to the loss of good reputation of road transport operator (the requirement of good reputation is necessary for the occupation of road transport operator). New solutions assume that a serious infringement, a very serious infringement or a serious infringement may be committed not only by the road carrier and the transport manager, but also by the driver. In contrast, the initiation of proceedings to meet the requirement of good repute will depend on the frequency of infringements. The Commission adopted amendments aimed at reducing the penalties imposed on road transport operators and amending the date of entry into force of the Law. The PSL-UED Members' Club will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u49	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on tachographs (prints No. 2458 and 2574). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on tachographs, which is contained in print No 2574. The Sejm at its 62nd meeting on 9 May 2018 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure referred the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Commission for Infrastructure after considering this draft law at its meeting on 4 June 2018, i.e. Yesterday, he asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. During yesterday's discussion, 15 substantive amendments were tabled, and a whole series of legislative amendments presented by the Legislative Bureau. That is what all Members have agreed to. Thank you very much. Of course, I propose that this report be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u51	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed law is to adapt at the minimum the implementation of our national legislation to the 2014 European Parliament Regulation on tachographs. The 1985 Council Regulation was repealed there. In other words, there is a need to introduce new rules related to European Union regulations. In accordance with the 2014 Regulation, Member States are required to adopt legislation in the field covered by this Regulation, in particular as regards matters in which, pursuant to the above act, Member States are required to lay down national rules or where Member States are free to determine the regulation of this issue. The bill is one of the possible instruments of intervention. The entire law consists of eight chapters, is highly specialised, is a law of such a highly technical nature. Surely the adoption of this law will result in an increase in discipline as regards the carriage of various goods, and above all the speed control developed by cars carrying goods. I would add that all this law has been consulted with more than 20 entities in the field of car transport and shipping. The law itself has more than 70 articles and regulates in detail the issue which Poland must implement in the framework of European Union legislation. As regards any amendments, they were mainly technical. Law and Justice will support the adoption of the law on tachographs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u53	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Platform has no reservations on the report submitted. At the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee yesterday we discussed this project. The meeting was attended by a social party and basically made only a few demands. They didn't find recognition in the committee's eyes. We had doubts about the fees provided for, in particular the amount of the fees which must have an impact on the economic activity carried out by the entrepreneurs, which affect their outcome. We also had doubts about the level of administrative penalties provided for in the Act, but - I stress - the social side of our doubts during the consultations did not share, so we are not proposing amendments in this regard. It is worth noting that this law will actually replace the regulations in two separate legal acts: the Law on Measurements, and the Law on the System of Digital tachographs. So we're tidying up these issues. This applies to a huge number of companies, as a total of over 100,000. carriers will have to apply these new rules, as well as more than 800 operators engaged in the business of tachographs, whether digital or analogue. Even more operators, people, drivers will apply these rules in practice, because we have more than 420 thousand. persons employed as drivers in transport companies. This data is worth quoting. Mr Stanisław Żmijan spoke about this in the previous item of the agenda: Poland has built a power in the transport sector, this power was built by Polish carriers. This law not only cleans up tachograph issues, but also increases overall road safety, because that's why we use these devices in vehicles where people or things are transported to increase road safety to verify the correctness of road traffic, compliance with traffic rules. This law also has a significant impact in terms of guaranteeing drivers their social rights so that carriers do not have the opportunity to force their work beyond the prescribed rules and limits. Such temptation is sometimes born, and tachographs eliminate it. There's one more thing that's important. The use of tachographs also creates better conditions for the transparency of competition in the market, so by building this important part of the economy by adopting this law, we contribute to the introduction of clear rules for competition in the transport market. For these reasons, the Civic Platform will support the proposed project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u55	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u56	I haven't started yet, and I'm done. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on tachographs after the presentation of the report of the committee, i.e. prints 2458 and 2574. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law on tachographs submitted to the High House is intended to bring the legal status of our country in line with the requirements of the directives and regulations of the European Union. I must say that, perhaps for the first time in the context of the debate on the adaptation of the law, we are dealing with a situation where the government declares that this is a minimum adjustment, i.e. the minimum requirements laid down in the directive. I have to say, this is a very good direction. So far, we have usually dealt with such a situation that the directives have been implemented at the maximum level, plus, that is, everything that was in this directive, plus the extra-mandatory things that were optional. Unfortunately, very often the High House was presented with such draft laws which contained what had to be implemented under European law and what had not to be implemented. This, of course, caused complications for the various types of activities. If for the first time we have, at least I do not recall such cases, dealing with minimum implementation, I must say immediately that this is a very good direction and I call for this direction to be maintained, because such a minimalist approach to these regulations which are presented by the European Union is healthy. The second thing I want to say is that, in fact, there is nothing in these regulations beyond what needs to be included, there are no local ideas. It is good that these provisions, which concern the implementation of directives, for the sake of clarity of the law, for the sake of clarity of the matter, are implemented in this way - minimally, without our own bureaucratic ideas. I want to thank you for that, of course. As far as the tachograph issue is concerned, we all know that today this scope is regulated in two different laws: part concerns analogue tachographs, part of digital tachographs. Of course, the new law cleans up this important area from the point of view of the transport industry. We all know how important this industry is to the economy, also in terms of volume, the number of modes of transport, the number of people involved in transport, logistics or shipping. Suffice to say, almost 28 thousand were registered only in 2017. new heavy goods vehicles. It's an incredible number. This shows that this industry still has the potential to invest in development, and therefore this new approach to tachograph is very important. They are crucial for companies, but also for employees. On the one hand, they allow for optimization of working time, on the other hand, they serve to ensure that the working conditions of drivers are adequate, meet the requirements set out in the regulations, to make the most efficient use of the available resources, but also to ensure safety on our roads. A driver who is not tired, who is not exploited, who drives the car according to the regulations, is simply more safe on the road. Ladies and gentlemen! The only thing that raises our doubts, but indeed, during the committee meeting, the social party did not make these comments, is the issue of the fee for activities. This is, ladies and gentlemen, something that can block market access in the future, i.e. create competition in the tachograph market. The social side did not comment, so we will not report them either, but I would like to call on the Ministry to examine whether the high fees proposed in this law do not result in the closure of the market, [[♪ The bell ♪]] do not result in blocking the supply of new businesses, which might be more competitive, more responsive to employers' expectations...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u57	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u58	...and on the other hand, it would not cause excessive cost increases...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u60	...fracht. Thank you very much. Modern...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u61	Mr... Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u62	...will support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u63	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski gave his position in writing. I invite Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law on tachographs, prints No. 2458 and 2574. Since the above proposal aims to implement European Union law, which is actually such a technical project, by adapting our right to European Union law, and since the solutions proposed can lead to a more stringent and therefore better application of the law in terms of the pursuit of the driver's profession, i.e. to the fuller protection of these workers, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the adoption of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u65	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you for the job that lasted until late evening. Finally, yesterday, very many representatives of the social side were present, who mostly did not comment except for one valuable remark, a proposal which the High Committee adopted. It was about certain specific records. So I would like to thank all your Members, as well as the social side, for their presence yesterday, Monday, during the discussion on the draft law on tachographs from 2458 printing. The report has already been presented today. I therefore thank you for your cooperation and propose that you continue to proceed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u67	Thank you, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this pleasant atmosphere I wanted to thank our team, i.e. the ministry team and the chief road transport inspector. It wasn't an easy bill, the company worked hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u70	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on tachographs. The proposed regulation will allow the implementation of new construction solutions for tachographs as set out in EU Regulation No 165/2014 and reduce the risk of misuse, thus ensuring new rules for their installation, repair and verification. The new regulation also prohibits advertising and sales of tachograph manipulation equipment. The new draft law on tachographs regulates issues that remain within the competence of two bodies: the Minister of Infrastructure and the President of the Main Office of Measures (GUM). It contains, among others, the following elements: issues related to the type-approval of both generations of tachographs and their functional certificates, in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Union Regulation. The procedure for programme or hardware modifications to the tachograph operating system has been clarified and provisions have been introduced to ensure compliance with the approved type of equipment placed on the market or use. Furthermore, as workshops play an important role in the safety of tachographs, solutions have been proposed to increase the credibility of these operators while reducing the risk of fraud. It was assumed that in the event of a reasonable suspicion of connection of an unauthorised tachograph device, an inspection officer, e.g. The Road Transport Inspection will be able to direct the vehicle to an approved workshop to check the possible connection to it of such a device. In the event of a finding of connection to the tachograph of handling equipment, the costs associated with the verification of the tachograph will be borne by the road carrier. If such action is not confirmed during the inspection, the costs associated with the verification of the tachograph will be borne by the Treasury. This solution is intended to reduce the manipulation of the working time of drivers. It was assumed that the permits granted to workshops for the operation of installation, inspection, inspection or repair of digital tachographs would remain valid after the entry into force of the Act. However, these workshops should adapt their activities to new requirements within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. Workshops carrying out the same activity, but concerning analogue tachographs, will be able to lead to the expiry of the authorisation. The Commission has tabled legislative and clarification amendments. PSL - ED Poselski Club will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u71	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is followed by students from Primary School No 15. Jan Brzechwa in Jaworzno. Welcome. [[Applause]] Welcome to the rest of the listeners as well. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 32 hrs. 11 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws (prints No 2412 and 2553). I ask Mr Dariusz Kubiak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws, print No 2412. The Energy and Treasury Commission after first reading and considering this project... The Commission considered this proposal at its meetings on 25 April and 22 May. The purpose of the government's draft law is above all to ensure full compliance of the provisions of the Act of 20 February 2015 on renewable energy sources with the provisions on state aid, to which the Polish party committed itself to the European Commission in the notification procedure on the Polish RES support system and exemptions for energy-intensive users. During the ongoing public consultation, changes have been developed in response to social expectations and expectations of entrepreneurs. The notification of the RES Act to the European Commission was not only necessary, but also due directly to the adaptation of the Polish side to the European Commission's Communication: guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy objectives in 2014-2020. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the objectives of this project are among others.: clarification of selected definitions of the RES Act and elements of the summary annual report of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office; continuation of the necessary systemic changes enabling the creation of local energy sustainable areas on a market basis; making changes to improve the operation of the auction system in relation to inter alia. to be divided into so-called. baskets; elimination of unnecessary elements contained in statements made by energy producers in RES installations; propose systemic changes to RES support by introducing a feed-in premium or feed-in tariff system for renewable energy producers dedicated to micro- and small RES installations using stable and predictable energy sources. The draft RES Act introduces a new principle of cumulation of public aid. It should be stressed that the planned changes aim to achieve the 2020 RES target, we are talking here about 15%. The solutions introduced are intended to protect residents, owners of land on which wind power plants are located, from possible damage resulting from their operation. Many consultants have pointed out and called for such changes. It is proposed that the tenant be guaranteed the return of the uncontested plot, i.e. in its original state, after the end of the operation of the wind power plant. The proposed changes are intended to bring about a fully controlled development of the renewable energy sector, including wind, with an emphasis on the safe operation of wind power plants, and thus allow the possibility of modernising these installations. It is also envisaged to strengthen the supervision of the voivodship building oversight of the use of wind power plants in the assessment of the technical condition of the entire wind power plant. The Act clarifies the definition of energy cooperatives as regards the activities of cooperatives as well as the area of their activities. High Seym! I'm bringing in a motion to announce the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u74	I would add that six minority proposals were submitted during the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u75	Thank you again. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws, print Nos 2412 and 2553. The aim of the proposed law is above all to ensure full compliance of the provisions of the Renewable Energy Sources Act of 20 February 2015 with the provisions on state aid, to which the Polish party has committed itself to the European Commission in the notification procedure. The new regulations will contribute to the efficient use of renewable energy sources as well as increased consumption for energy purposes of agricultural by-products and the agricultural raw materials industry. They will also serve to meet the international commitments on the use of RES in overall energy consumption of 15% By 2020 The proposed changes are also in line with the objectives set out in the strategy papers, such as the Responsible Development Strategy, the National Renewable Energy Action Plan and the Energy Policy of Poland until 2030. The envisaged solutions meet the expectations of entrepreneurs operating in the area of renewable energy, ensure harmonisation of Polish regulations with EU rules on state aid, as set out in the guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy objectives in the years 2014 and 2020 and remove interpretation, legal and editorial doubts in the various areas of the present law. The project includes the amendment of three laws, i.e. the RES Act, the Wind Power Plant Investment Act and the Construction Law Act. The solutions contained in the amended rules are primarily to give a new sound to definitions. The provisions on energy clusters and energy cooperatives have been clarified. Regulation has been put in place to monitor and assess the development of the distributed generation and thus to influence the assessment of the achievement of the RES target for 2020. Solutions are envisaged to improve the functioning of the auction system in energy: it has been adapted to the needs and capabilities of small energy producers. New auction baskets have been proposed for the sale of electricity produced in RES installations for which reference prices are set. Thus, the RES installation directory was extended. A new rule on the cumulation of State aid was presented. The elimination of unnecessary elements contained in the statements made by energy producers in RES installations was assumed. The elements of the summary annual report of the President of URE were clarified. New support mechanisms for small renewable electricity generators for selected technologies have been proposed. The changes consist in introducing, alongside an auction system that is friendly to FIP operators and FITs for power-based RES installations using hydroenergy, biogas and agricultural biogas. Changes are also foreseen in the wind energy sector. First of all, uniform, transparent rules for the taxation of wind power plants have been restored with property tax. The new regulations abolish the statutory ban on modernisation and renovations. In the light of the new proposed regulations, existing building permits for wind power plants remain in force if, within 5 years of the date of entry into force of the Law on investment in wind power plants, they are authorised to use them. The project also solves the problem of placing buildings in areas that are located in protection zones of existing windmills. Solutions have also been put in place to protect residents and owners of land on which wind power plants operate against possible damage resulting from the operation of wind power plants. In conclusion, this amendment of the RES Act will allow for the auction of RES in 2018 - auctions expected by Polish entrepreneurs. For this reason, the adoption of the act is urgent and fully realizes both the interests of entrepreneurs and the economic interests of Poland. Finally, I would like to point out that regulations on the functioning of RES in Poland have already been approved by the European Commission, recognising in its decision that the Polish RES support system complies with the legal principles of the European Union. Importantly, this amendment is all the more necessary because, due to the failure of the European Commission to notify the RES support system by December 2017, RES auctions were cancelled in Poland in 2017. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I'd like to make a deposit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Four amendments. I hereby submit them to the marshal. I would also like to point out that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the government bill amending the Renewable Energy Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u77	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u78	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will make a statement on this bill. Minister! To tell you the truth, I feel a little sorry for you because you're in a new situation after your predecessor, which led to what you said at the subcommittee meeting. You have stated, in fact, that we stand with RES investments for three years, that we do not implement international agreements because that is the truth. If you look at what Poland has done for 3 years on RES investments, you can say that not much. The amendment of the bill, which we are discussing today, opens to a certain extent a small gateway to Poland's realization of something. That's how it is. The fundamental blockades that have been activated as soon as the PiS has taken over the government will continue. I will also refer to the position of the European Union, which is contained in the explanatory memorandum of this law. In this explanatory memorandum, the Minister writes that support for RES under competitive conditions, rules, e.g. auctions should be open to all competing producers on equal terms, which should in principle ensure that grants are kept to a minimum. That's the justification for this bill. What does reality look like? On 20 February 2015, we adopted the RES Act, where we introduced an auction system, i.e. competitive, which, regardless of who has the technology, should ensure that we reach the lowest price limits, because this is the heart of the auction, the competitiveness of prices. Of course, we are also talking about important small scattered projects, which also require support. 1/4 of the market has been left, secured for the smallest ones. PiS quickly, because still in December, introduced a distance limit, or, strictly speaking, a height limit, which eliminated from our market the cheapest energy source such as windmills. Without all this going on, I want to focus on some of the things that this bill introduces. The first thing: you went to your senses - and it's good - to extend the permit by two years, to invest for those who have building permits, because apparently, people have gotten it, and they can't invest, because they just know it's not worth it. The second thing: we talked so much about these taxes that it doesn't make sense that investors just won't invest if they pay such taxes on buildings. This is a good direction, this bill just goes against our proposals. Hopefully time will show that this altitude lock will be changed. Not that there's windmills everywhere, because it's not like that, Minister, that the Civic Platform Club or other opponents say that windmills have to be everywhere. It's not like that. But after all, the investment, any one that was created, should be verified after completion, and strict conditions, concerning e.g. the noise level, ensuring the safety of those moving there, should be respected. There's no way in the world that someone's gonna circle a radius of two miles and say it's not gonna be there, because that's what I think. That's how decisions were made in our country. If we're talking about details, when we ask questions, they're gonna ask about some details. Minister, you have kept talking to us about consultations, about certain matters that have been agreed with people, but at committee meetings we hear a former Member who says: there has been no consultation. It's about a former envoy from your camp who says it's a fraud. And the minister says: after all, we consulted it, the consultation lasted 7 hours. Minister, on such drastic matters, the consultation took three years to put in place a good bill. That's shortcut action. You now have the task, and I wish you to do so, so that we can reach the limits, not pay the penalties and get the approval of energy consumers, not just those who want to do business on renewable energy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done. I will make amendments to this bill, Mr. Marshal, and I would like to state that the club will generally support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u79	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2015, a law long awaited by investors, energyists, environmental and ordinary citizens, consumers or green energy producers entered into force. This law did not solve all the problems, but it certainly resulted in a significant increase in installed renewable energy sources. In 2016, despite many protests, the Law and Justice Members pushed through a very restrictive law, the so-called law. 10H regulation. When we look at the increase in investments in the wind energy sector, we will come to the conclusion that this law has actually stopped the construction of new wind energy sources in Poland. In 2017, the Print Act No 1733, also known as lex ENERGY, placed the entire RES sector in a very bad situation, the wind energy investors and banks suffered. The result of this law was primarily the loss of confidence of the banking sector in RES in Poland due to the instability of the law and the lack of respect for contracts concluded by state energy companies for the purchase of green certificates. The current bill we're talking about is a small step, let's say it's a step, but in the right direction. First of all, the Act provides the basis for the auction of RES on a larger scale than before, which may result in more sources of clean, renewable energy being attached to the energy system of the country. A very good positive aspect is that the amendment extends by mid-2020 the requirement to obtain a permit for use for wind power stations which are unable to meet the so-called. 10H regulation. Thirdly, the draft amendment restores the rules for the calculation of real estate tax to the situation prior to the entry into force of the Wind Power Plant Investment Act. Fourthly, it is also beneficial to amend the building permits issued for wind installations which do not comply with the requirements of Article. 4 Wind Power Investment Act, provided that the change or issue of permits does not lead to an increase in the environmental impact of the wind power plant. As a modern, we will report two amendments. First amendment on Article. Point 3 (4) refers to existing wind power plants. It allows the possibility of renovating the power plant, but it makes it possible not only to renovate it, but also to increase the capacity of the installed power plant, which is often the aim of such renovation, of course without increasing the environmental impact. And the second amendment to the amendment. Article 4 is replaced by the following: Point 28 prefers certain types of energy sources, i.e. biogas and hydro-energy installations, which selectively treats energy generators and prefers certain technologies. We therefore propose that this selective treatment be deleted and that this article be opened to other energy sources as well. It's a step in the right direction. On the other hand, this amendment will certainly need public consultation. I would like to remind you that during the meetings of the subcommittee or committee, they were not allowed to speak, they were not actually admitted to the Sejm, organisations directly interested in this subject, so surely the topic of RES is not closed in Poland, and the law should definitely go further so that more green energy connections are possible in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Director! High Izbo! Well, three years have been lost, and now we're shyly retreating from what was already known when you were making these changes. We have said that we have pointed out that these changes will destroy the idea of renewable energy at all, the idea of renewable energy production, that it will not function. And that's what happened. Okay, we're gonna support that right now, Minister, so you don't worry, we're gonna support that, too, because there's some of our proposals we've been making. Clusters, you've introduced clusters. No one knew what it was, not even the minister could explain what this cluster was supposed to be all about, so you fired the minister, there's no longer a minister, and these clusters don't work. We met at group meetings, committee meetings. The minister started shooting, some cluster, something will be there. It didn't work out. Auctions. What these auctions are supposed to look like, it wasn't known either. We noticed it wasn't like that. Those auctions didn't work out. Three years lost. This year will be another year lost, because we are only at the stage of writing the law and adopting it, so I do not know if we will succeed in the next two years, which we have been able to achieve by 2020. I want to remind you of an experiment with windmills. Mrs. Zalewska, today Minister, she has come to the idea that windmills are bad for us to erase, cut out all windmills, and those who want to put windmills, lock them up, let them know that these guys aren't good, the mayors aren't good because they want to put windmills. And that's what happened. There's no creative windmill bill here. So? The big chaos, the big mess and it's going nowhere, because on the one hand we have a local government, we have investors who took action, we have construction permits, we have owners of neighboring parcels, but it's all so mixed up right now that we don't know what to do with it. Fixed tariffs. There were fixed tariffs. The fixed tariffs were adopted by the Sejm, it worked. If there was something wrong, it had to be improved, looked at it, completed, maybe added something, maybe subtract something, but that was already there. Today we return to fixed tariffs and cannot be treated selectively. The Polish People's Party had a proposal to cover all micro-installations by fixed tariffs. After all, photovoltaics on the roof at one or the other owner's, the farmer will not compromise energy stability. If someone puts 3 or 4 kW on the roof, it won't interfere with the energy stability system, because that's what you're talking about. The whole time there was such scaring Poles that we have too much renewable energy. After all, the minister said, answering my questions from the stand, that we have too much renewable energy. I'm not going to remind you how much the Poles had to pay for these fantasies and these whims. There was even a term that renewable energy wasn't collecting stamps or whatever, something like that. They laughed at renewable energy, showing that Poles paid huge bills for it. And what did it turn out to be? Today, however, we are returning to renewable energy, because there is no turning back from this. I don't know what they wanted to demonstrate at the time, ruining the whole system, because, as Minister Czerwiński said here, it's not like we're gonna come up with something and it's gonna work. You have to model yourself on the experience you've experienced, you have to modernize it. You can't create a few or maybe a dozen systems and it's all supposed to work. No, we have one system, and we're working under this system, or we have some concept, a broad vision of the energy system, and then we're in. And not so: we don't like windmills, Zalewska has travelled around Poland, we cut windmills, PSL with Civic Platform introduced fixed tariffs, no, you can't give people free electricity, cheaper electricity, because it's bad because they invented it, so we cut it out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No, there's gotta be stability here. That is why I think that further changes and further reasonableness are needed in the approach to renewable energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u83	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the Civic Platform begins.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, we have a collapse in renewable energy sources. And that's because of whose decision? The decision of the most enlightened government of the PiS. After 2.5 years we have the situation that the president of URE must reduce the RES fee from PLN 3.7 to PLN 0. How do you feel about that? Theoretically it would seem that we are gaining, but in fact this reduction causes one thing: that the system does not work, that the RES does not work, that there is no auction, that there is no effective recovery of new energy from renewable energy sources. What's the threat? This threatens that in 2020 there will be a disaster, that we will pay great penalties for not having 15% in the system. renewable energy sources. Technically and civilizedly, it unfolds Poland, moves backwards instead of forwards. Minister! The rolling amendment. You say there's going to be another bill in a minute, because we really have to fix what we've ruined. I understand that right now you've withdrawn from the scandalous tax on wind installations, but probably in the rolling amendment you'll also withdraw from the distance bill. But why not do it right away? Why not return to the bill proposed by the Platform and PSL government, which was effective, effectively dealt with the issue of renewables [[♪ The bell ♪]] Energy sources forward? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister, more and more RES projects are being carried out in the European Union without the support of their countries. This is not surprising, because, as it turned out, our Polish energy companies: Enea, ENERGA, Tauron, PGE, lost as a result of a scandal with a high and constant price of green certificates that were contracted before 2013. In December 2017, the CSO confirmed that the share of energy from RES slightly decreased in 2016 and 2017 and was estimated to be around 0.6%. Do you think that the new law, the new support mechanisms will contribute to Poland reaching these 15% the share of overall energy consumption set out in the European Union Directive in 2020? And last question: Is it right for some investors to be concerned that the inclusion in this law of provisions which impose an obligation on them to restore the land made available after the end of the operation of the wind power plant poses a question of the cost-effectiveness of the entire investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sure it's an expected bill. Those who wanted to produce energy from RES were waiting for another bill. They were waiting for a bill that would allow them to expand their wings and build and carry out further installations as quickly as possible. We all see today that these are feverish changes in legislation, indicating the danger that we are not able to meet the limits set for us by the European Union, as well as those of an intra-national, 19% target in the energy sector. This also shows that you have failed in three years. For the fourth time, you are amending the 2015 Act. Hence my questions, Minister. Please tell us what the increase in RES installations has been like over the last three years. How do you intend to secure funds for the Energy Regulatory Office as well? The President shall have additional tasks included in this Act and shall not receive any financial resources for this purpose. How are you gonna regulate that? And one last question. If, over the next period, this increase does not work to secure RES in additional sources, does the government intend to make changes to the so-called. The distance bill, which is, you might say, the main barrier to the development of wind-related electricity sources? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This really is a big problem, because in the last 2.5 years Law and Justice have destroyed Polish RES and, above all, destroyed Polish manufacturers who have invested in wind farms. These are Polish entrepreneurs who have spent years building capital, investing in business, would seem predictable, which would cause the development of Polish capital. So often, Minister, we hear from the members of the PiS. What's the reality? In fact, many of these entrepreneurs are facing bankruptcy because really the profitability of wind energy production has fallen catastrophically. Often these are investments made with the participation of EU funds. And there's actually drama. And then you are surprised that investments in Poland are falling. Because the basic rule is broken: the law doesn't work backwards. That's when it worked. In fact, wind energy is destroyed. This is largely true of Polish entrepreneurs and Polish capital. These producers should be helped, the state should support them. As a state, we are all the more obliged to address issues [[♪ The bell ♪]] RES generation limits up to 2020 Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u92	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have this question: How much renewable energy do we really have today? As a professional, you might be able to tell us the truth right now, because we haven't found out yet. We have always been convinced that we have too much renewable energy. Is it true that we have recently gone below the threshold? It's been said all along that we're above the threshold, that we need to slow down. There were slogans here, saying it had to be slowed down. How's it looking today? This is our business together. If we do not solve this problem, the Poles will have to pay more to do so than the costs that need to be borne today, because some costs have to be borne in this regard. When will this bill, which I hope will begin to function? When can the effects of this bill be expected? Are there any extraordinary solutions needed? Then, as the High House, we could focus, focus on taking radical action and correcting the mistakes that have been made for three years. And last question: What is the amount of compensation Poland will have to pay to investors? Today we find out all the time that investors, especially foreign investors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] accuse Poland of failing to meet its obligations with regard to these installations. What kind of a government of greatness could that be? Thank you very much. [[President Obajtek has a lot of knowledge.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am not here as a representative of the Energy Commission, which has innovation and new technologies in its name. I am very pleased that the government has finally decided to do this because, as far as RES is concerned, we are dealing with a huge development of innovation and new technologies. Because what is at your heart, coal and carbon-free technologies, is, you know, really dreaming, they are very expensive, they are at the stage of research and not at the stage of implementation, while only RES technologies are technologically progressing. Therefore, this amendment, which the modern representative has tabled here, I think, should be considered, in order to consider the increase in the power of these new technologies as the best locations, for example. winds were created in coastal areas and these are the oldest technologies. And the technological change involves not only greater stability, because for a longer period of time these power plants are working, but also increased power with the same size of power plants. And the second question I wanted to ask is to withdraw from this tax. You've been withdrawing from the tax since the beginning of this year, but willn't you retreat back, whether there's a possibility, and then these taxes will be refunded? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government, could the government return it? Because this regulation is unconstitutional because the property tax should be uniform and not, depending on the industry, should be different.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u96	He should be homogeneous and that's why he's unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u97	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PiS is a pest. He's used to it. But as far as renewable energy sources are concerned, it is a unique pest - almost 3 years of action and legislation, which has limited the possibilities of renewable energy sources in Poland, and in particular in terms of wind energy. I know that the idea that we will pay huge penalties in 2020 if we do not reach 15% It's a little scary, but it's not just the money we're gonna pay then. I fear that we, too, as a state budget, are exposed by the action of PiS to enormous compensation for companies that have already submitted arbitration to the Polish Government, for compensation for the fact that the laws introduced by Law and Justice have prevented investment in which huge money has been invested. I would like to know from the Minister what this case looks like, because it is appalling if it turns out that from your budget we will have to spend tens of billions of zlotys. There are still bank losses to all of this. Banks had to lose loans granted to renewable energy sources because they were no longer able to recover this money for a good cause. And it wonders why you are trying to take some small steps forward - she said: steps, really they are steps - and you are doing something, and you are not starting with those things that really blocked energy development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] renewable in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u99	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to an important problem. The notification of the support scheme was not adopted until December. R., a.k.a., announced in February this year. On the other hand, auctions took place in December 2016 and in June 2017. Installations after winning the auction could not obtain funding from banks due to the notification deadline which took place later. However, many operators have expressed their willingness to accept the terms of the auction by deliberately taking risks of activity. They are investors acting in confidence to the authorities of the state and to the stability of the law, who have entered the auction and, due to the subsequent amendment of the law, could not obtain bank financing. Moreover, they will be subject to penalties because they could not update the amount of electricity they announced. So I'm going to ask: can you extend the possibility of implementing these projects for a year? How does the energy resort intend to solve this problem? There was talk of building some form of funding. I don't really understand what this is supposed to be like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u101	Thank you. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Something unbelievable - you copied almost all of our amendments to your 2016 Wind Power Act, except for the most important one, i.e. the 10 times the distance of the power plant from the residential buildings. You even changed the definition of a wind power plant within the meaning of the Construction Law, which means you are returning to our definition of a building - a foundation plus a tower - without a rotor with shovels. I ask: Wouldn't it be better for our country and the economy to listen to us? We don't want to hurt you or want to tease you. We just want to fix this law that you're making. It is unsatisfying that you have taken our amendments into account after such a long time, that we were right, because the damage to the economy has already been done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u103	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Energy of Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for all the votes in the committee, I have already said this in the committee, but I also thank you very much now for the vote on this bill. I think that proceding this law is also conducting a process that will certainly not close under this law, as I mentioned in the committee, because it is a question of creating some framework and rules for the industry that we see in front of us, and that always causes us to have new challenges. As to the answer, as regards Mr Warzecha's question of reaching 15% in 2020 and when it comes to returning the parcel to a non-condemned state, yes. That is why we are launching this law, as I mentioned, and this is mainly related to auctions that are intended to stimulate the share of renewable energy through investment in our system. The intention is to get closer to 15%. , and even we are going to actually achieve this 15% which is at risk, and that is what I am saying objectively, because we are all aware that this is a challenge. But I think if we get closer to 15% And we're going to show that we're closer than we are, and we're going to make a positive assessment of what we're doing. In addition, the law is positively assessed by the committee, hence these objectives regarding 15% they are a challenge for us, and at the same time it is real to achieve them. On the other hand, when it comes to land paid after the investment in a degraded state, it does not seem to be likely to incur significantly the costs, because investors who have a certain time of operation of the project itself calculate to give up the land in the state in which it was before the investment started, and good investment practice is that when the project is closed, we give up the land in the state in which it was before the investment started or similar. Mr Gadowski asked about the URE as well as about the growth. It will be us, as the Ministry of Energy, who will be asking next year that the URE, in the latest budget, actually have what we presented in the committee - funds. We share as a ministry the fact that, in order for this system to function, URE should also be financially strengthened, which will also strengthen the potential of its involvement as a very important institution, a very important regulator. On the other hand, on the increase, as you asked, in 2015 we had an increase of 941 MW, in 2016 the increase in RES was 1445 MW and in 2017 the increase was 148 MW. What we are going to achieve as a result of the auction is 2 GW, so this is a strong increase that will allow us to achieve this adopted law and these regulations. As far as distance issues are concerned, as you can see, we're keeping it on the project for now. We will observe this, but we have no intention of doing so today. Mr Kasprzak asked, since when would the bill come into force, what is the intention of this? We very much want - and as you will see, the timetable is that we should be tested - for the bill to come into force from 1 July, so we are proceeding on it in Parliament now, hence - as I stress always - these smooth work in the subcommittee, because they make it easier for us and we can make time with what we have assumed so that in the second half of the year we can start the auction. I think that's the will on both sides. How much renewable energy do we have? If you allow me, I will give you the data we have not yet taken into account the GUS data for 2017. When it comes to heat, transport, electricity, where we're going to reach 15% , the share in 2016 amounted to 11.43% , while for the whole electricity in 2016, it was 13.6% , where by 2020, as you know, there will be 19%. On the issue of compensation - there were two questions here: and Mr Meysztowicz and Mr Kasprzak - I would like to say that the prosecution is currently conducting proceedings and I am not authorized to provide information, because this is, as you know, litigation. Hence, I do not want to answer as much as I do not have the power to do so, so that you accept this answer with understanding. As regards the withdrawal from the tax - this question was asked by Mr Man - in the context of innovation and modern technologies, yes, indeed in the law, as you know, we take into account the issue of modernisation and place emphasis on the emergence of the latest technologies that we are applying when it comes to RES and windmills in the Polish market. However, when it comes to withdrawing from the tax, we believe that if we improve the tax status of those who are subject to the tax, even if we are six months behind, we are in line with the Constitution, because here we are improving this situation. We know that some municipalities raise this issue, but I would like to say that the consultative work, as you know, has been a little long, because it lasted over a year, and we already said that such regulations will come into force. This is why we also presented this information at meetings with institutions that represent rural communities, and that is why the municipalities that planned their budget had already been informed that such regulation should appear in a law that will be adopted in the middle of the year. Therefore, we believe that we should not have a problem when it comes to settlement, but, as I say, I do not wish to speak for the right courts. Mr Płępek then spoke about issues concerning the participation of companies in auctions and support for these companies. I think that ordering certain provisions that we are introducing through this law, and showing the direction in which we are going, with regard to the next push of renewable energy sources, is also an impetus for financial institutions, which, as we know, are beginning to unlock their financial decisions. On the other hand, we are simply not able as a ministry to interfere in these transactions of people who represented companies, entrepreneurs and financial institutions. As far as the other statements are concerned, I accept the words and the critical ones and the positive ones. Thank you to the esteemed parliamentarians. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, I've been misunderstood.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u105	Mr Kasprzak, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u106	I've stayed, Marshal, misunderstood. Minister, I didn't mean when the bill would come into force, because that's what we decide here, I just meant when we could actually expect electricity, physical electricity, the network, as a result of the implementation of this law, because the investment process takes quite long. Will we get electricity before 2020 and not lead to the entry into force of the Act? [[Because it's the electricity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u107	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is not really a question of the emergence of real energy in the network, it is a question of what will be the source, because it is different with biomass, otherwise with photovoltaics, with windmills. However, we can already say that we have the energy that appears on the network, and these parameters that I have said, these 2 GWs that occur after the auctions, cause us to start a rather large process, a large undertaking, so the coming years, and 2018 and 2019 and 2020 will be those years in which there will be an increase in the appearance of specific energy in our system, because for this we also launch auctions, so we also create these conditions to unlock certain, to say, the possibilities of installing renewable energy in the grid, whether from biomass, whether it is windmills or even photovoltaics. So that it is clear when, every month, every year, it is difficult, we are talking more about the process, Mr President. I understand that this question is so legitimate that the process should be strongly dynamicated so that the parameters that we have to achieve in 2010 are realistic. And that is what we have, sir, intentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's the right thing to do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u109	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Dariusz Kubiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to thank everyone who worked in the subcommittee on the energy committee on this bill. It was pretty intense work. In one day, it was practically possible to convert it to the subcommittee. Thank you, Mrs Kozanecka, who has been very supportive of me. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the smoothness of this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u111	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u112	The draft RES Act solves the problem of placing buildings in areas that are located in protection zones of existing windmills. The deadline was extended to 6 years from the entry into force of the Distance Act - i.e. until mid 2022. I have a question: After this period, what about obtaining permission to build and implement a construction project in the form of a cottage or sale of a plot? Wouldn't they lose value because of the protection zone regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u113	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the bill. For example, the consumption of electricity in Poland by transport in 2016 amounted to 4559 GWh, while by all sectors, sectors of the economy, according to data from the Central Statistical Office - 156 161 GWh. This means that the demand for electricity in the market is so high that for each energy producer, whether industrial or RES, etc., there must be a place. Poland is unable to keep up with demand. PLN 7.1 billion in 2016 energy companies and the transmission network operator spent on investments. In order to meet the expectations of every type of customer, you have to meet their expectations, among others. energy companies must minimise the interruptions in the supply of electricity. Sectors that make the most of electricity, where demand growth continues to increase, are heavy industries, processing and transport. The time runs out when the old installations can be upgraded forever. New generation capacity needs to be built. The investment challenge for WW. Innovation and competitiveness are being pursued and planned. The development of electricity infrastructure should translate into the maintenance of a lower night electricity tariff for individual customers. Replacing smog sources by increasing the use of electricity is a very good idea. The electricity charges and supply charges should decrease as large-scale supply expenditures are planned. The increase in demand will translate into the profitability of investments in conventional sources. We all have to face the fact that the available tariffs, sales prices and distribution rates for electricity will be transformed. The emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere can be reduced by using renewable energy sources. In rural areas, reducing CO2 emissions to the atmosphere is conducive to agricultural biogas plants that use solid biofuels and produce biocomponents by converting biomass into liquid and gaseous fuels. Agriculture contributes to reducing emissions. It is enough to support this sector of the Polish economy. All legal changes must be supported efficient use of electricity. In the proposed act, new sound received the concept, among others. biomass, dedicated biomass combustion plant, energy cooperative for the production of electricity or biogas or heat. Particular attention should be paid to the provisions on hybrid RES installations. The production of agricultural biogas in RES installations should be documented with certificates of origin, so-called. Brown certificates. For such a gas to be injected into a distribution system, it must have appropriate parameters. Every effort must be made not to distort the mechanism for trade in agricultural biogas certificates. The certificate of origin for agricultural biogas shall be issued for a further period of 15 years. The amendments to the Act are favourable to hybrid installations where the abovementioned biogas plants can cooperate with other RES investments. Changes in legislation aim to create such conditions, for example. energy from an agricultural biogas plant serves as a security for installations that do not work for different reasons of manufacturing units. This new approach to hybrids in RES works well and is forward-looking. Such an innovative approach to the energy storage system will take into account the need to stabilise the generation system from different RES systems, will provide a reserve of power during periods of less productivity of photovoltaic and wind farms. The legislative solutions mainly concern renewable energy generators dedicated to micro- and small RES installations using stable and predictable energy sources. Thank you. High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns energy cooperatives involved in the production of electricity, biogas or heat, etc. How is the electricity distribution network defined in the area for energy cooperatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u114	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the national cybersecurity system (print No 2505). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr. Karol Okoński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Developed by the Ministry of Digitalisation in cooperation with public administration partners, taking into account wide public and sectoral consultations, our draft law on the national cybersecurity system is intended to increase the level of security of information systems, so that every citizen, including the entrepreneur and public administration, can make the most of the services provided through these systems. The reliability of these systems and security are crucial for both economic and social activities. These systems may become the object of deliberate attacks aimed at damaging them or interrupting their operation. Such incidents may hinder business activity, cause significant financial losses, undermine user confidence and cause serious losses for the economy as a whole. Therefore, the government takes and will take measures to optimise the level of cybersecurity of the Republic of Poland. Such a concrete action is presented today a draft law on the national cybersecurity system, whose urgent process is all the more necessary because, as the statistics of one of the teams responding to threats and security incidents in cyberspace show - specifically CERT Poland operating in NASK - 2017 has brought a record number of almost 22 thousand so far. reports of security breaches of networks and systems, including almost 3,200 security incidents. Looking at the quantitative distribution of the types of incidents, we can see that computer fraud, especially phishing, and malware, in which there was almost a 2.5-fold increase in the number of incidents compared to the previous year. This trend is particularly worrying due to the willingness of criminals to use different types of ransomware software, i.e. those that encrypt the resources of the victim's system and demand a fee for sending the decryption key, and - the second common phenomenon which is also increasing recently - so-called. bankers, i.e. malware targeted at electronic and mobile banking clients. It is also worth paying attention to the growing number of attempts to hack systems, devices and applications both in the context of the lack of system security updates and the use of weak, easy to break or even default passwords. This latter issue concerns in particular the devices of the Internet of things connected often to the global network without any thought, with the standard configuration of the manufacturer, thus becoming an easy target to take over mainly by so-called. malware loT, but also outside burglars, who can easily find the default administrator password in the documentation of a given device available publicly on the network. Taking into account the above mentioned phenomena and the inconclusive conclusions of the 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber's report on cybersecurity in public institutions, I hope that this project will be dealt with in a spirit of consensus and substantive discussion in the name of the sense of responsibility for the State and its security. High Izbo! The presented project is, on the one hand, the implementation of one of the basic tasks formulated in Resolution No 52 of the Council of Ministers on cybersecurity adopted in April 2017, i.e. the National Framework for Cybersecurity Policy of the Republic of Poland for the years 2017-2022. As a result, Poland is expected to achieve a high level of resilience of national ICT systems for providing key services, digital services and public administration services through the expansion of the national cybersecurity system. This system aims to build up the capacity for ongoing risk monitoring and integrated national cybersecurity management. On the other hand, the present law also responds to the government's need to implement Directive 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems within the Union, i.e. so-called. NIS Directive. As in many other European countries, which, like us, are obliged to implement this directive, our project is at the stage of the parliamentary procedure. Our aim should be to make sure that it becomes another strong pillar of the secure development of the digital economy. The Ministry of Digitalization, in particular in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, presents to the High House a regulation which establishes the organisation of a national cyber security system and comprehensively and unambiguously describes the tasks and responsibilities of the entities forming part of this system. In view of the complexity of the issue and of the new functions and tasks provided for in the draft law, the work of the three ministries concerned shall be supported at all times by the draft law and referred to in it as the competent authorities for cybersecurity, including other ministries and supervisory authorities responsible for monitoring the relevant provisions of the draft law in respect of sectors within their competence, including energy, transport and water sectors, banking sectors and financial market infrastructures. The draft law provides for obligations to ensure cybersecurity of information systems in services sectors which are essential for maintaining critical socio-economic activities. The draft law introduces the concept of a key service provider, i.e. a key service provider using information systems, where ICT security incidents can have a significant impact on its provision. In addition, the project envisages the establishment of a single contact point to strengthen cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. A single contact point will collect information on domestic incidents and strengthen the exchange of information between Member States by contacting its counterparts from abroad. In the light of the digital service providers, i.e. purchasing services, search engines and cloud computing, mentioned in the draft law, a more mild and reactive approach covering ex post supervisory activities will apply, i.e. after the incident occurred, and only because of the country where the service provider is established. This approach is due to the international dimension of digital service providers and therefore to the fear of fragmentation of the European Union's Digital Single Market. The draft law on cooperation between Member States provides for mechanisms at two levels: technical and political and strategic. Technical cooperation is to be ensured by the European CSIRT network and the creation of a mechanism for the exchange of information on cross-border incidents between these CSIRTs designated for key service operators and digital service providers. On the other hand, cooperation at political and strategic level is to be carried out by a cooperation group, which is involved in developing common strategic concepts and adopting inter alia. annual reports from the competent authorities. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill defines the basic concepts necessary for the national cybersecurity system. It is worth noting that in the current legal system there are no such normative definitions at this time, which sometimes result in insufficient identification or in the possibility of regulating cybersecurity issues. The draft law also establishes a national cybersecurity system and identifies the entities belonging to it. It contains indications, rules for identifying key service operators and, in fulfilling the arrangements referred to in the NIS Directive, sets out the obligations of key service operators for the implementation of an efficient safety management system covering inter alia. risk management, procedures, reporting mechanisms, incident management or organisation of structures at operator level. The Act also clarifies the obligations imposed on digital service providers, taking into account the existing restrictions laid down by the NIS Directive. It also takes over the obligations imposed on public entities which are regulated separately from those imposed on operators and suppliers. It shall specify the incident response system and include all stakeholders in the process. The purpose of the incident response system is to complete it, i.e. to establish it in all key sectors, as well as transparency and complexity. It assumes the identification of the tasks of CSIRTs responsible for countering cybersecurity threats across sectors and across borders, as well as the coordination of the handling of serious, significant and critical incidents. Secondly, the law provides for the inclusion of cybersecurity aspects in the area of state governance. The CSIRTs shall inform each other and the Government Security Centre of a critical incident which may result in an emergency situation for security or public order. In addition, the Act provides for the establishment of a Critical Incident Team as an ancillary body appointed for the handling and coordination of these critical incidents at national level. The Act also lays down rules on how cybersecurity communications are made public and in accordance with the requirement of Regulation No 2016/679 of the European Parliament on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing the relevant Directive lays down rules on the processing of personal data within the framework of the functioning of the national cybersecurity system. The Act also establishes cybersecurity competent authorities responsible for the supervision of key service operators in the sectors listed in the NIS Directive. Competent authorities are part of the national cybersecurity system which is also responsible for developing ICT security guidelines for the sector in cooperation with the CSIRTs. The competent cybersecurity teams established by the authorities will be able to receive reports of serious incidents, their analysis and support in their operation in cooperation with the relevant CSIRT. The Act provides for the assignment of new obligations to the Minister responsible for computerization performing technical functions for the purposes of the national cybersecurity system. They relate to the operation of an electronic system used to exchange information between entities forming a national cyber security system, to dynamic risk estimation at national level and to cybersecurity warnings. The Act establishes a single point of contact for: cybersecurity, led by the Minister responsible for IT. The single contact point shall act as a liaison and shall exchange information for the competent authorities, public authorities and individual CSIRTs. A single contact point shall ensure the receipt and transmission of reports of serious and significant incidents from other Member States and shall represent the Republic of Poland in the group of cooperation with the body for strategic cooperation in the European Union arena. The Act also defines the tasks of the Minister of National Defence relating to the scope of the Act, in particular as regards ensuring the ability of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland to carry out military activities in cases of specific threats, and to assess the impact of incidents on the State's defence system and to direct actions related to the handling of incidents during martial law. The Act also regulates the supervision and control of the performance of the tasks set out in the Act, determines the scope of checks, powers of controllers and proceedings in the event of a breach of the provisions of the Act. The Act also sets out the tasks of the representative of the Government for Foreign Affairs. cybersecurity, a new coordinating body for cybersecurity in the Republic of Poland, also defines the tasks of the College for Information. cybersecurity, which is the consultative body in cybersecurity matters. The Act also lays down the statutory rules for the implementation and development of cybersecurity strategies of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo! I have just presented the most important assumptions that arise from the draft law on the national cybersecurity system. Once again, I call for efficient and effective work on this key project for our country, which is crucial for the development of the digital economy, which is certainly the future of Poland and the future of Europe as a whole. Without appropriate regulation on cybersecurity, without the proper effort that you will put into its behaviour, this expected success of the digital economy, the digital Poland can be destroyed or even become its opposite. Our common task is to ensure the highest level of cybersecurity. We believe that the project presented is a significant step towards achieving this goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Rafał Weber to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the national cybersecurity system. The purpose of this law is to define the organisation and functioning of the national cybersecurity system, the way in which supervision and control are exercised as regards the application of the provisions of the law and the scope and modalities of establishing the cybersecurity strategy of the Republic of Poland. The draft law defines the basic concepts necessary for the national cybersecurity system. In the current legal state, the lack of normative definitions makes this area inadequately regulated. The proposed definitions are in line with Directive 2016/1148, which will assess the achievement of the objectives of the Directive and the national framework. The project also establishes a national cybersecurity system and identifies the entities belonging to it. The draft law sets out the principles of identifying key service operators and, in fulfilling the dispositions referred to in Directive 2016/1148, sets out the obligations of key service operators for the implementation of an efficient safety management system, including: risk management, procedures and mechanisms for reporting and dealing with incidents or organisation of structures at operator level. On the other hand, the annex to the Act contains all potential categories of entities in particular sectors of the economy and activities of the State from which operators of key services may be identified, through an administrative decision. The draft law clarifies the obligations imposed on digital service providers, taking into account the existing restrictions laid down in Directive 2016/1148. The obligations imposed on public entities shall be regulated separately from those imposed on operators and suppliers. One of the most important parts of the proposed amendment is to identify and involve all stakeholders in the incident response system. The purpose of the incident response system is its completeness and transparency. Firstly, it is assumed that the tasks of the IT response teams responsible for countering cross-sectoral and cross-border cybersecurity threats, as well as the coordination of the handling of serious, significant and critical incidents, are to be identified. Secondly, the Act provides for the inclusion of cybersecurity aspects in state management zones. The teams shall inform each other and the Government Security Centre of a critical incident which may result in a crisis for security or public order. In addition, the Act provides for the setting up of a team for: critical incidents as an auxiliary body set up for the handling and coordination of these critical incidents. The draft law establishes the competent authorities for: cybersecurity, responsible for supervising key service operators in the sectors listed in Directive 2016/1148. Competent authorities are part of the national cybersecurity system, also responsible for developing sectoral ICT security guidelines in cooperation with the CSIRT. The competent cybersecurity teams established by the authorities will be able to receive reports of serious incidents, their analysis and support in their operation in cooperation with the relevant CSIRT. The project also envisages assigning new responsibilities to the IT minister performing technical functions for the national cybersecurity system. They relate to the operation of an electronic system used to exchange information between entities forming a national cyber security system, to dynamic risk estimation at national level and to cybersecurity warnings. At the same time, the bill establishes a Single Contact Point for cybersecurity led by the Minister responsible for IT. According to the provisions of the Regulation, the Single Contact Point would act as a specific liaison and exchange information for competent authorities, public authorities and CSIRT. The Single Contact Point will ensure receipt and transmission of reports of serious and significant incidents from Member States, representation of the Republic of Poland in the Cooperation Group, cooperation with the European Commission, cooperation between [[♪ The bell ♪]] the competent authorities of the Republic of Poland and the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union. To conclude slowly the presentation of our position, I encourage you to read the law, with justification. It is a very extensive material, but the bill is very important when it comes to preserving the security of our country. The parliamentary club supports this government submission, recognising the adoption of this law as not only fulfilling the provisions of Directive 2016/1148, but also strengthening security in cyberspace. That is why we will support the government in working on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u118	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform, Mr Piotr Cieślinski. But before you begin your speech, you will allow me to welcome the students of Primary School 34 to you. Leona Kruczkowski in Łódź, 3b and 3f classes, together with the group's maintainer. [[Applause]] I hope you like it in the Seym, and you'll have a nice feeling. Now, sir, I would like to invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u119	Thank you, Marshal. I will try to make it as friendly as possible. Minister! High Izbo! The project concerns the implementation of Directive 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems within the Union. In addition, it is worth noting that the proposed law is in line with the fifth objective of the National Cybersecurity Policy Framework of the Republic of Poland for the years 2017-2022. The adopted Directive is the first horizontal EU legal act to respond to cybersecurity challenges, which introduces real changes in resilience to cyber security threats and cooperation in the field of cyber security in Europe. The Member States of the European Union were to implement the Directive into their legal systems by 9 May 2018. The list of key services and the list of key service operators must be established by November 2018. Unfortunately, Poland is already behind and will not meet the required deadline. According to estimates of the Ministry of Digitalization, the law will affect nearly 50 entities in the energy sector, 15 airlines, 10 railway companies, 47 financial institutions and all major telecommunications operators, including at least 25 digital service providers and a minimum of 30 cybersecurity companies. Raising the level of national cybersecurity is undoubtedly a key challenge for both the private sector and the public sector. It should be pointed out that the bill under examination represents progress in relation to the first working version proposed at the stage of government work, which is extremely enjoyable. However, the draft needs to be continued, agreed and amended. It should be noted that the Act constitutes a set of important and insignificant things. The analysis carried out shows that the project focuses primarily on the cybersecurity incident reporting system. In turn, the proposal itself does not say much about prevention, monitoring of normal status and searching for incidents. The bill also pays little attention to education and does not exploit the potential of NGOs to build public awareness in the area of cybersecurity. On the other hand, it welcomes the fact that there has been a legislative improvement in the concreteness of the concepts used, especially incidents, and the creation of CSIRTs for the sectors and subsectors listed in Annex II to the Directive, which was also proposed in the National Framework of Cybersecurity Policy of the Republic of Poland for the years 2017-2022. Taking into account the objective of the EU Directive, i.e. To achieve a high common level of security for networks and information systems within the European Union, it would be important to consider seriously whether the Polish cybersecurity strategy should not cover sectors and services that are not listed in the Annexes to the Directive, i.e. sectors: energy, transport, banking, financial markets, health services, drinking water supply and distribution and digital infrastructure. This is possible because in Article. 3 The NIS Directive established the principle of minimum harmonisation. In accordance with this principle, the Polish legislator may adopt or maintain provisions aimed at achieving a higher level of network security. The same applies to the extension of the catalogue of sectors that will be considered as operators of key services, given their importance for society and the economy. I would also like to point out that the proposal provides for the establishment of a collegial body supervising the cybersecurity system. Supervision of the activities of this body will be carried out [[♪ The bell ♪]] the President of the Council of Ministers or the person designated by him. Here is the issue of debate, and I would also ask you to explain whether it will actually be the minister responsible, or the minister of digitalization, or whether any other minister can perform this function, e.g. Minister for MON, as mentioned earlier, not today, but in previous projects. In my opinion, this is unnecessary because it creates another administrative control structure and has little to do with strengthening the level of security of public, private and cyberspace actors as well as citizens. The Civic Platform Club supports the solutions contained in the bill, although it may be considered to set more ambitious objectives, Minister, so that they contribute as much as possible to raising cybersecurity in Poland, raise public awareness in this area and do not impose an over-uncontrollable influence on economic operators. The Polish law should also be as much as possible...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u120	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u121	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...coordinated with acts adopted in other Member States. I consider this to be a very important issue, because it will certainly contribute to increasing cybersecurity globally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the act on the national cybersecurity system. The government's work on this law, i.e. the regulation of the national cybersecurity system, stems from the need to ensure a systemic approach to the national cyber security system, especially in view of the growing importance of information systems in the economy and the increasing use of data sets, and, following this increase in importance, the increasing threat of information systems, including important systems, often crucial for the functioning of the state, economy and society. On the other hand, the need to work on this law forced the implementation of Directive 2016/1148 of 16 July 2016 into the Polish legal order. Ladies and gentlemen! Within a five-minute speech, as examples of my previous speakers have shown, this subject cannot be exhausted. I think that much, much more detailed discussion will take place during the work of the Sejm Committee. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to issues that may be of concern, because of course we understand the meaning and validity of the proposed solutions, while some of the solutions are of concern to us. The first issue that we always raise as a Kukiz club15 is the question of the volume of the bill. The directive, which consists of 30 pages, is introduced on 150 pages. Why do we always have our right, why we as Members always prepare the law that regulates issues so deeply in the legal acts that are filed as laws, especially in matters as dynamic as cybersecurity? or computerisation in general. Ladies and gentlemen, if all cybersecurity issues are regulated in this way in detail in the law, any change in this area will make it necessary to amend the law and, consequently, the transition of the entire legislative process, as we know, often takes a long time, and in the case of breaks such as holiday breaks, this period may extend to a few months. Do we really want to commit ourselves to cybersecurity in such a long, often extensive time? This is a very dynamic area, very dynamic. These are very dynamic issues. I think it would really be possible to create a project that consists of a dozen articles regulating system, structural issues, and the entire technical, organisational part could be standardized by regulations, for example. What we always worry about, which we also always pay attention to as the Kukiz Posel Club15, is the multiplication of further administrative entities. In this case, too, we will not be alert to this. We're multiplying more administrative entities. In addition, the existences that we create will operate under very specific conditions, according to our own logic, often the boundaries of competence between these beings are not clearly defined, this division of competences is not clearly defined, which will result in the overlap of competences and disputes between institutions. The solutions we observe in this bill have a very large conflict potential, which - I think - should not take place in the case of a law as important as the Cybersecurity Act. The law does not indicate an unambiguous concept indicating one system host, which sets trends, standards, directs all matter and sets directions for its development. It is also incomprehensible to me why it is involved in specific structural NASK solutions, which is not a government institution and which can be replaced at any time by another institution carrying out these tasks. In conclusion, because time is pressing, understanding the need for regulation and cybersecurity as a key element of state security nowadays, even though we do not agree with all solutions and we would see these regulations differently regulated, the Kukiz club15, hoping to have a substantive discussion during the committee's work, recommends further work on this draft law on the national cybersecurity system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. Perfectly five minutes. That deserves to be commended. And now Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Okonski, after listening to your speech, I do not know whether to laugh or cry. With the great sympathy I have for you personally, however, I must say that you are talking about efficient and effective prosecution of the law and referring to the NIK, which in 2015 - I will remind you that we are in June 2018 - he wrote: Security in cyberspace is not properly protected in Poland. There has been no consistent and systematic monitoring and prevention of cybersecurity threats. In particular, the state's activity paralyzed the lack of a single decision-making centre coordinating the activities of other public institutions and the passive expectation of solutions to be proposed by the European Union in this area. This Regulation We're three years after that NIK report. Since then, there have been some interesting publications. I would like to quote Mr Krzysztof Bondaryk, who is the former head of the Internal Security Agency and the Minister of Defence's advisor. Cybersecurity, which also in 2015 in press statements says: The size of losses - and it speaks of e-mail leakage, several hundred thousand e-mails leaked from the Ministry of National Defence - was as follows: several hundred accounts were hacked, among others. Staff of the Armed Forces, HR, the Secretariat of the Minister for National Defence and individual members of the strict management of the Ministry. Minister! A smooth process after 3 years, when we are really implementing the European Directive, is not enough. I believe, and I know that this bill has been queued into the government for a long time, that the government is taking improper action on cybersecurity issues. In this whole positive process, the consultation you have conducted is indeed very detailed. And thank you for that. Mr Okonski talks about the fact that we are dealing with computer-to-Internet crime, and he refers to many thousands of acts which state individual CERTs. Please note that in the Polish Criminal Code there is still no definition of such concepts as computer crime, Internet crime, cyber crime, which certainly translates into limited possibilities to prosecute such crimes. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is needed, but this law does not, in my opinion, clarify the clear competence and clear responsibility of one area, which will coordinate all these actions, on the contrary, the act introduces a proxy for the d. cybersecurity, which will report directly to the Minister. So we have the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Digitalization, and there will be a hat in the form of a proxy, a representative of the coordinator over everything. If I wanted to pick on you, I would say that we already have such a proxy, or maybe even two - representatives of Mr Kaczyński, who are doing their work in the area of the Board of Ministers or other bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! What's a proxy for? Why are you detracting from the Ministry of Digitalization? We have clearly defined competences and competences for cybersecurity It is precisely the Ministry of Digitalization that should play the most important role. You are giving money that will be dedicated to this purpose. We are talking about PLN 167 million. I wonder, is this enough, or is this the amount that will be used properly, or is it the only amount that is, or are there other amounts in other ministries? And if there are amounts in other ministries, such as national defence, MSWiA, what are they, and how will these work be coordinated? Because I'm afraid they won't. So I'm glad there's a solution. Unfortunately, this is simply the implementation of the European Directive. I'm afraid you've got it all wrong. I'm happy to think about working on the committee. It will most likely be a joint meeting of the National Defence Committee and the Digital Commission. I hope we can talk about it in detail there. I also hope that the Ministry will be open to our demands, not as was the case with the previous Act and amendments to renewable energy sources when the opposition amendments from 3 years ago returned. Be open to this discussion now. The case is very important. I think we're naked. They show this and the report of the NIK, and those statements that we have heard since then, people who have had an insight into how cybersecurity, especially concerning these most important areas of the state, such as national defence, is proceeding in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u126	Thank you very much. As regards speeches on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats and the Freedom and Solidarnia Members' Circle, they were submitted in writing. In the first case by Mr Krystian Jarubas and in the second case by Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I don't see any additional reports, so I'm closing the list. The questioning begins with Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In general, the draft law on the national cybersecurity system results from the implementation by Member States of the NIS Directive related to cybersecurity. A key element of the Act is the list, identification and list of key service operators. As a rule, cybersecurity obligations are carried out by public entities and are now clarified. In my opinion, however, there is no systemic action to increase the level of cybersecurity in organisations by improving the competences of public sector workers and ordinary residents. And here's my question, although partly the Minister said this: What are and where are the security measures for the wider cybersecurity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u128	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask the next question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two years ago in July, the National Cyber Security Center was established as a rapid response center and reported cyberspace incidents. The Centre operates 24 hours a day and is expected to cooperate with public and private entities. It is about efficient security management in cyberspace in areas of critical activity for the state and the economy. In view of the above, I would like to ask the representative of the digitalisation department about the successes of the national centre in responding to threats and incidents in cyberspace, the costs of operating the centre on an annual basis and the number of cases where it has undertaken the interventions to which it is obliged. It is also important whether the National Cyber Security Centre in connection with the bill will have increased competence. If it is not possible to obtain information now, please send this reply in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u130	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have rightly pointed out that cybersecurity is an important area of our life, social and economic life. And so far in the real world, we've dealt with ordinary criminals, and then we've also developed a class of criminals in white collars, so here because we live in a reality-virtual world today, we're experiencing technological or smart-to-digital crimes. This must certainly be combated and therefore the implementation of this directive is very important, but cybersecurity must also be improved on the basis of our cybersecurity system. But, Minister, why are the CSIRTs three? It's not necessary. I believe that the greatest experience, unlike what the representative of Kukiza said15, has actually NASK. NASK works very well. I myself have experienced that in recent years he has been able to quickly track down and eliminate these criminals, eliminate the crimes that have arisen in the virtual world. And that is why I would urge that such a CSIRT MON-owski or GOV-owski be created as a critical infrastructure, not as a CSIRT, because we already had a rise in the real world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] security agencies that protected military units. I think NASK would take better care of our cybersecurity in military defense than such a CSIRT military because we have experts here who would do this. And answer me: Is it anywhere in the world, in Europe, where they implement this directive... Are they implementing this in the concept of one CSIRT or many CSIRTs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u133	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! The bill was designed in torments and pains, and in a large conflict between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Digitalization. And unfortunately, I have the overwhelming impression that the Ministry of Digitalization has taken not one step backwards, but at least three, without playing a significant role in this whole process of coordinating these issues. On the other hand, I would like to ask, on this occasion, what are the actions that concern the need to save and raise special funds for the implementation of, for example, the national framework for cybersecurity policy and the resulting tasks, which are included in the Act. Because last year, the Ministry of Digitalization applied for an additional PLN 70 million, which in the total budget seems to be a small amount, to carry out at least 15 very important tasks. That's what the Ministry pointed out. That money wasn't granted to the ministry. Everything went to the Minister of National Defense. And now the fundamental question is: How will these issues which the Ministry has repeatedly spoken about be financed? Who's gonna do this? Are you able to guarantee that these matters, which stem from the law and from the national framework, will be implemented? Is this money just enough? And that's the key to me. And second question. If the bill provides for the appointment of a proxy, then what happens to the current attorney who's in charge [[♪ The bell ♪]] The cybersecurity that operates within the KPRM? Is there gonna be another proxy, or are they gonna share the powers, or is that guy gonna stop functioning? What is the meaning of this, and what will be the relationship between one and the other, or will one simply be eliminated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u134	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions. Firstly, when it comes to financial resources, if there were more financial resources, how would the Ministry intend to use these funds? We know that specialists, especially in the field of cybersecurity, are very well-paid people. How does the Ministry plan to order this subject? We see that the ideas for this are different, for example. The Ministry of Finance, setting up a company with critical applications, was as if outside the possibility of hiring these people. Is this the idea of the Ministry of Digitalization, or is it some other way of mobilizing and influencing those who have these competences, and would like to work in the Ministry of Digitalization in the area of cybersecurity? As far as the proxy is concerned, if there was no record of the proxy, would the Ministry of Digitalization have competence inside its department to order this area? And with regard to the actions taken since 2015, I agree with the statement made by Mr Antoni Mężydła, who referred to the fact that NASK has since been basically the only institution that has a functioning CERT, except, of course, CERTs operating in all kinds of commercial companies, whether the Treasury or private capital. On the other hand, NIK also refers to the fact that these NASK interventions were appropriate. And the question is whether, as you move forward, you also see NASK as a central unit, which will coordinate the activities of these different CERTs also in a commercial context. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And public? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u136	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Andrzej Halicki or Mr Mirosław Suchon, and we will therefore move on to the question that Mr Paweł Arndt, the Civic Platform, will ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u137	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! As a member of the Committee on Public Finance, I would like to ask a question about financial matters. It's in the article. 87 provisions are made on the maximum limits for expenditure from the State budget in each budget section. According to this article, the only part of the budget or the only resort that will spend money on cybersecurity this year is the Ministry of Digitalization. This is included in Part 27: Computerization. There's still a small part about home affairs, but it's completely irrelevant. I'd like to ask you something else. Among all the budgetary parts listed in Article. 87, there isn't one about national defense expenses. It seems that this is an important part, and some of the speakers spoke about it. The entire chapter 10 is devoted to the tasks of the Minister for National Defence, but in the list of measures available in the various parts of the budget, there is absolutely no resources for the Ministry of Defence. Please answer the question of why. And if these measures are, how can they be found? Do they even exist? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A colleague asked for financial data, and as a member of the Infrastructure Committee, I would also like to know from the Minister how you see cooperation with the Minister of Infrastructure in the context of all these investments related to rail traffic control. How to secure the safety of passengers as well as the Polish state? We know that hackers work, especially in Germany, it's about Deutsche Bahn, and that's where you go in one year, let's say $1,000. times. How are you gonna secure that with us? Who should determine the interface parameters between the SRK core layer devices and the master layer? Because the superior layer is coming in right now, and it's being implemented, and I see that the railroad is, I mean, passed on to itself... Therefore, the parameters between ERTMS and ETCS control systems should be set. Who should set the standards of a higher layer, a computer? And who should finally define procedures for the transmission of interface documentation and hardware layer with data transmission protocols? As we know, it doesn't exist, monopolists rule, and it costs us a lot as a country, and it's gonna cost even more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u141	Dear Marshal! Minister! I would like - I have already mentioned this in my speech, but I would like to ask - why you have limited critical infrastructure only to a number of items, to a narrow list of annexes to the NIS Directive. After all, in Poland the Act on Critical Infrastructure is already in force, and it might be worth extending the protection and extending it to those entities, so that they are also remembered when adopting the Act. That would be a solution for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u143	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Coordination is, of course, very necessary here, and it is not only because civilization progress is being made all the time. It is not true that there is no definition or procedure here, it is one that tells us not only to monitor incidents but to intervene. I'm talking about the obligation that the IT Services Act imposes on UKIE. Just tell me what percentage of incidents are being reported in this regard at all. This duty is simply not done. It's a sanction that doesn't work. If there are no sanctions, then the system doesn't work at all. Therefore, today there is no need to create anything alternative, but to use it. what is already in the legislation, and to improve, so to speak, the execution. And the problem is... I agree with the NIK report, which is why. We have created in close cooperation with a civilian centre that can perform such duties... Here NASK is the best, because it has knowledge, and its scope allows for uniform, coordinated not only control, but also intervention. The directive can be implemented and acted within this civil structure. If we are talking about services or MON-enhanced aspirations, they were the ones that threatened the implementation of this directive, which was also introduced on the Polish initiative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One CERT in one country, one surveillance, one standard and the full use of civilian capabilities in this area. I wanted to say CERT - Computer Emergency Response Team. It's in English. That's a little point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u144	I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr. Karol Okoński to answer these and previous questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there were quite a few questions. I will try to relate to most of them as much in detail as possible. I expected a broader discussion or more detailed discussions at committee level. However, I think that a few points need to be clarified in this Chamber and I will try to address them briefly. With regard to Mr Piotr Cieślinski's statement and the fact that this law does not say anything about prevention, issues related to monitoring or searching for threats before they occur, I would like to point out that our law introduces an obligation, imposes an obligation on the competent authorities and individual CSIRTs to draw up guidelines for particular sectors of the economy and recommendations, and that key operators are required to inform on the website about the risks they have been diagnosed, to include certain information in which they have entered, in order to provide up to speed with certain information for communication. Probably the practice will somehow show how effective it will be, but this is the first and most important step, which is to establish one common way of dealing with the sector's recommendations and guidelines and operators must stick to them, as well as operators are required to inform on the website as soon as they receive such information, about the expected threat on the basis of information collected, whether at national level or at European level. As far as education is concerned, I would like to point out that our law also introduces an extension of curricula, paying attention to the fact that the elements related to cybersecurity and online behaviour are also included in education programmes. As far as the catalogue of key sectors is concerned, the one that is currently used in our draft law is exactly the one proposed in the directive. It's kind of premeditated. In fact, the directive allows individual Member States to expand, introduce their own definitions, but we felt that at this stage it was the easiest to keep cohesion here at European level. We do not exclude at the time of the system's operation, if such a diagnosis is made, extending it to another sector, but we start with a directory which is defined directly in the NIS Directive at this point. As regards the question of the proxy, I would like to say that the representative will be appointed by the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, and he will take this decision at the time when the law enters into force. As far as cooperation with other countries is concerned, it is indeed - here I very much agree with you - that we also want to exchange experiences with individual countries about the mechanisms for implementing both the directive itself and the so-called ones. best practices. Not even further. as I spoke yesterday about this in Tallinn at such a forum in the Baltic Sea region as one of the important elements of cooperation. We also have talks with the United Kingdom, and we also had meetings with the United States, so that this element of cooperation and exchange of experience will be even wider than the level of the European Union. We will also use it as much as possible when implementing legislation. As for Mr Bakun's speech, I would disagree with the fact that the governance structure we are proposing, whether it is confusing, whether it will be a source of some kind of dispute or discussion. That's what we cared about... This process, this time that was necessary to reach the right position, was aimed at poaching this area, so that these competences would nevertheless be as separate as possible with regard to the various actors, so that there would also be a pre-arranged hierarchy. In our view, this law clearly makes this area much more orderly in relation to how it has worked so far. Why NASK? Here, in fact, I have been given a little bit by other Members, but actually the NASK directly included in the Act appears because it is de facto the first Polish CERT, which has been operating for almost 20 years. His experiences are simply unrecognizable and would be unnatural, inefficient inventing or building from scratch some new body. It is also important that the Institute is under the Ministry of Digitalization, which also gives us a greater opportunity to cooperate. As far as Mr Pudłowski is concerned, they can only say this: in fact, the report by Mr NIK, which he quoted, was so strong in its wording, but let us remember that he was assessing the period before 2015, in particular the issue of e-mail leakage and data leakage. All I can tell you is that over the course of time when the new government was in operation, the attacks were obviously diagnosed and recognized, and the spill that was similar to what you were talking about wasn't there. I think that's also an important thing to remember. The diagnosis or response to NIK's diagnosis coincided with the work on the NIS Directive first at European and later at national level. The introduction to the Polish legal order of something else, which was not previously included in parallel work at the level of the European Union, caused that these works unfortunately had to take as long as they took. As far as months are concerned, it would probably be possible to discuss whether this could not be done more quickly, so we have actually exceeded the date of 9 May, which was the date entered as the date of application of the directive, but I would like to tell you, as a little consolation, that we are still in the European average as regards the progress of the work on the implementation of the directive. About half of the European countries are less advanced in this legislative process, behind us. As far as the governance structure is concerned, as I mentioned, the role of government representative - I am answering one of the other questions that later emerged - is potentially solving a conflict that would be included in this situation when one ministry has a mandate that de facto goes beyond its jurisdiction. If we put the ministries together against each other, then naturally there may be some issues that need to be resolved, and the natural way to settle this is to settle it at a higher level, so that there is an escalation path plus was a certain view at the level of the entire government. This representative institution is what is used to ensure that the Council of Ministers and all ministries have a common position on cybersecurity issues. To answer Mrs Wasilewska's question, I can say that the means to implement this... This is also the answer to Mr Arndt's question. The fact is that the measures secured by this law actually point to the resort of digitalisation as the resort that provided these expenditures that would be needed. Other resorts will update their long-term spending plans related to the implementation of the Directive. As far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, the Public Finance Act simply states that MON expenditure is not included in the budget rule. It's just the rule, they're not included in the OSRs. As for Mrs Navel's question about the National Cyber Security Centre, I think it is worth explaining this in order to avoid doubt. This thing we called the National Cyber Security Center, it's actually just a NASK institute right now. Information about all his activities, including successes, costs and other projects he has carried out, are available in CERT reports Poland - CERT Poland is something that was previously named NCBR - and he will carry out these tasks that result from the proposed law. If necessary, the report on the activities of NASK, in particular CERT Poland, can also be transmitted in writing. With regard to the question by Mr Man regarding this structure, why three CSIRTs and not one, this is the result of the consultation and discussion that we have conducted, the aim of which was to divide this cyberspace so as to avoid certain misunderstandings in the future. Now the Ministry of National Defence has certain prerogatives to operate in the military area - no other ministry has such qualities - and must be able to carry out these activities. As far as ABW is concerned, it is appropriate for the care of critical infrastructure, hence the dedicated, responsible CSIRT on the side of the ABW. All the rest is simply NASK CERT, which covers the whole public sector and all those other categories, which do not belong to the two previous ones. Is this solution that we have proposed unique on a European scale? It is not unique: Slovakia adopted a similar solution and a similar solution is currently planned in Austria. As regards Mr Carrot's question about the budget for the national framework, it must be said that the source of funding for these work, those tasks included in the national framework, will be the budget law. Here, in fact, in the current budget, for 2018, we are acting within what the Council of Ministers adopted and what Parliament later adopted, while in the coming years we will come back with some topics - these are the actions that are necessary - to finance from the state budget, but we also see the possibility of financing part of the actions, which we are already doing, from the funds of the National Centre for Research and Development. Part of the projects, e.g. The national assessment and certification system in line with Common Criteria is now implemented from the NCBR funds, i.e. from this other source of funding. It's going to be from these two sources, and we're planning to balance it out. If it's about the proxy question, I'm sure there'll be one. There will be no such thing as two: one under the current regulation, the other under the law. As far as Mr Pudłowski's questions are concerned, regarding the proxy, I hope I have explained that. As for how we want to solve the problem of access to highly qualified staff, which they necessarily expect to be adequately rewarded, we do not hide that we also see a very large role of NASK here. We are already acting in this way that part of the tasks, as we can - in the form of a targeted grant or, now, it will be possible, in the form of a subjective grant - as the Ministry of Digitalization, we commission NASK. With regard to the role of our CSIRT, i.e. the one for which NASK will be responsible, it has a leading role in the law as regards the contact point, in terms of contacts with other Member States. The Ministry of Digital Affairs is a representative of the strategic planning cooperation group, but NASK coordinates this largest, most diverse area, i.e. the commercial sector. In particular, it will be able to coordinate those cases when these sectoral CSIRTs arise, if the competent authorities consider it necessary. So, in my opinion, this role, as far as NASK is concerned, clearly gives it very much competence, appropriate to this area of the country, for which we, as the Ministry of Digitalization, can feel responsible. As regards Mr Lamczyk's question about cooperation with the railway sector, I can assure you that we are working in close cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, in some way discussing whether we are working together to determine, however, what is in the competence of the competent authority, the Ministry of Infrastructure, which can, has the right to establish certain standards or recommendations that would apply throughout the sector, including as regards the rail sector. This is how we see the role of our own or of this college - also as a member of the Cyber Security College - in specific sectors, in particular cases, to propose the preparation of such standards and their implementation in order to improve the implementation of the Directive and cooperation between the various actors. About the question... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, may I continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u146	Yes. I'm extending the time by 1 minute. You're welcome. Is that gonna take 1 minute? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okoński: Thank you. I think that's enough. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okoński: In answer to Mr Cieślinski's question, I will say that most of the critical infrastructure players now will be key operators, and that is what we already know and we have decided to focus on. This final effect of such, not another scope of subjective law was simply the result of these consultations - in fact it has already been raised - quite long-lasting, but, I have the impression, accurate and in-depth. I can say that it was simply the final decision to make this subject range so. In practice, all critical infrastructure will be covered by the Act. With regard to Mr Halicki's question about telecommunications operators, let us remember that the NIS Directive knowingly excluded its impact on the telecommunications sector, which has its own regulations. We, in the very implementation of the national cybersecurity system, consciously do not regulate the market for telecommunications operations, but we are introducing... we are planning to amend the regulation in an area that affects the functioning of telecommunications operators. Under this regulation, we will clarify how we communicate with... digitalisation and the definition of incidents. We also impose penalties for non-compliance with the rules and for not reporting incidents, which we also hope to seal the entire system. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your response to the Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The new law aims at implementing national requirements of the EU Directive in force since 2016, which aims to ensure a high level of security for networks and information systems throughout the EU. It is about the special protection of several key sectors for our security. It is a huge responsibility for the heads of various departments, because they will have to create them in their ministries. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we all function in the so-called. Cyberspace and that's where we're exposed to more and more dangers. That's where the battles are going, where the radical groups are starting to work, whose goal is often to disrupt the country's order and order. For years the concept of cyberspace of the Republic of Poland has also been in place - these are all places where the representatives of the Republic of Poland, diplomatic institutions, military quotas, vessels and aircraft, outside the territory of the Republic of Poland under Polish jurisdiction. It is related to the concept of cybersecurity of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the process of ensuring safe functioning in the cyberspace of the state as a whole, its structures, natural persons and legal persons, including entrepreneurs and other entities without legal personality, as well as their ICT systems and information resources in global cyberspace. The responsibility for the security of cyberspace of the Republic of Poland rests with the rulers. The State should create a structure that will monitor, analyse incidents and minimise terrorist threats. The main tasks are to assess cybersecurity conditions, including hazard recognition, risk assessment and the identification of opportunities; prevention, risk prevention, risk reduction and exploitation; defending and protecting their own systems and resources; combating - disorganising, disrupting and destroying - sources of threats, active defence and offensive actions; after possible attacks - restoring the performance of cyberspace systems. At the same time, such a system must not be allowed to serve anything more than the security of our fellow countrymen. Any abuse must not be allowed and the consequences for those who commit it must be clearly identified. Such a system must also have its internal sharpenings so that it does not become e.g. a whip on political competitors of some group of irresponsible politicians. A good step is to bet on a distributed system - not one body dealing with everything, but a division into several resorts and a division of competences. At the same time, it is worth noting that other countries' assumptions in terms of real space work in a similar way. A good example can be the Scandinavian distributed energy model. Here I encourage the rulers to unblock the RES Act we have adopted and written. This will also have to do with our security in the field of energy independence. However, on the subject of cybersecurity, we have long wondered whether matters related to it should sometimes be the topic of the National Security Council. Maybe it's time to sit down together and think about this important problem. Knowing the responsibility for the safety of Poles, as well as the smooth functioning of the Polish state, the PSL UED club will be in favour of directing this project to further work in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position towards the government's draft law on the national cybersecurity system. In today's digital world cybersecurity is one of the most fundamental issues. We use the network practically in every area of our lives and it is one of the main impulses of the socio-economic development of our country. It is therefore important that we be able to ensure our safety in this regard properly and effectively. The draft law under discussion today implements Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems within the Union. Its aim is to create a national cybersecurity system, to define the scope and the way it works, and to create appropriate instruments of influence to exercise supervision and control in the application of the law. These solutions are intended to serve, among others. undistorted access to services that are most important from the point of view of the country and the economy. Our widely understood security in the network is to be the responsibility of the response teams to computer incidents that will be included in the state management sphere. I think that no one should doubt that the regulations contained in the project are needed. Action is needed to increase our protection in the network and to address threats from cyberspace. It is worth noting that the regulations introduced were widely and quite long consulted both inter-ministerially and in public consultations. This shows that the project is prepared with due care that all arguments and possible solutions have been carefully considered. I am convinced that its adoption is in the interests of all of us. It is also important that the law is in line with one of the objectives of the National Policy Framework for Cybersecurity of the Republic of Poland for the years 2017 to 2022. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of its further proceeding.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u149	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft Cybersecurity Act, contained in print No. 2505, to the Committee on Digitalization, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on National Defence for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 22 June 2018. Before we proceed to the next point, I'm in charge of a 10-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 42 hours 13 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and some other laws (print No 2502). I ask the Minister of Digitization of Mr Marek Zagórski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Council of Ministers a bill amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws. The need for this law stems from the general belief and conviction that our strategic objective, as the Ministry of Digitalization, should be to promote social and economic development by providing effective public e-services to citizens and entrepreneurs. High-quality public electronic services should require minimum involvement by citizens while reducing delivery time and maximising their efficiency. This project is one of the tools that should lead us to this standard. The main objectives of the proposed law are: firstly, ensuring access to public e-services using a single login, electronic identification means, by creating a legal framework for the functioning of the national electronic identification scheme, creating a legal basis for making public online e-services available, where citizens' requests can be automatically supplemented by information processed by other public administrations, and finally creating a legal basis for the provision and development by the Minister of Digitalisation of a public mobile application - so-called. mCitizen or mDocuments - allowing storage on smartphones of electronic documents allowing confirmation of their rights. Currently, the use of public service portals requires the use of different logins and passwords. The aim of the proposed law is to provide each person with the possibility to log in safely, i.e. to confirm his/her identity, in various public service portals using one free electronic identification measure. The citizen will have the choice to use a trusted profile, i.e. a means of electronic identification issued by the State - this is still the case today - or another method of electronic identification, e.g. the identification method used by the citizen by logging in to his bank account. We are thus introducing a federation model of digital identity, the essence of which is, as I said, firstly the diversity of suppliers of these electronic identification means, but above all the guarantee that the number of electronic identification means used by citizens will grow avalanchely. Today, after several years of functioning of the trusted profile, we have about 1,700 thousand. users of the trusted profile. Our goal - which will ensure the mass use of e-services and at the same time drive their development - is to make available means of identification to at least a dozen million citizens and we hope that, in cooperation with commercial operators, we will achieve this effect as a result of the implementation of this law and the tools it provides. We will ensure this, as I said, also among others. by implementing a dedicated tool called a national node in the proposed legislation. This node will ensure an effective and secure exchange of information between public service providers who expect certainty that they are dealing with a particular natural person and those entities that will ensure that the customer's identity is confirmed in a manner convenient for that person and secure for both parties concerned. The proposed law also contains regulations concerning so-called. a cross-border hub, i.e. the ICT system, which will allow for the integration of national service portals and identity confirmation mechanisms with similar portals and mechanisms in the European Union countries. In this way, Polish citizens will be able to use the administration services offered in other Member States, as well as the other way - citizens of other European Union countries will be able to use the services of Polish administration. By submitting electronic requests to public administrations, we still meet the requirement to provide or attach certificates confirming the accuracy of data already recorded by other public bodies. The proposed law aims to enable the operation of online services which the applicant will be able to agree to automatically download the data relating to him from public registers kept by other public entities and to transmit those data to the requested entity. This will remove this barrier, which is still functioning today, and the use of electronic services will become simpler and faster. As I mentioned, the proposed law also introduces legal bases for the functioning of a public mobile application. This application will allow citizens to store electronic documents in mobile devices allowing, among others. to confirm their rights. The use of a public mobile application will be voluntary and free of charge, and in fact this application will be a kind of e-wallet for public documents, but we will also make it available to social operators, various types of organisations that wish to take advantage of this possibility. Let's just say some kind of relationship, some sort of mass society... If e.g. The Polish Fishing Union would like to use and issue an electronic fishing card, this possibility will be. Of course, we will focus first on public documents such as school card, student card, but also on documents such as registration or ultimately driving licence. This app... Attaching this application to the regulations will allow the auxiliary use of mDocuments in contacts with the relevant services. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These are the main objectives of this project, a project which, I hope, will be welcomed by the High House, because it largely cleans up these issues and facilitates the introduction of those solutions which I think we are waiting for to a large extent, but above all it ensures the mass use of electronic identification means and thus the mass use of e-government services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Krzysztof Kubow to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u152	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club as regards the government draft law amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws, print No. 2502. Electronic identification and trust services play an important role in the electronicisation of legal trading, as they provide mechanisms for the safe identification of parties in electronic communications between citizens, businesses and public authorities. Supporting social and economic development through the provision of efficient e-services to citizens, including entrepreneurs, is one of the strategic objectives set out in the Integrated State Information Technology Programme. By amending the Law on trust services and electronic identification, legislation has been introduced that will make it much easier for citizens to confirm their identity in public online services. The implementation of solutions to enable public services to be used using different electronic identification means provided by public and commercial entities on the basis of openness and equivalence is envisaged. This will provide a good basis for the dissemination of e-government services, which is crucial for socio-economic development, and will facilitate access to ICT systems of state and local government administration, because it will exclude the need to remember many logins and passwords for various service portals. The so-called "national electronic identification scheme' will also operate under the national electronic identification scheme. cross-border node. This is a point that will link the national electronic identification infrastructure with the corresponding infrastructures of the European Union countries. This will allow holders of electronic identification measures issued in other European Union countries to confirm their identity in national public services as well as holders of electronic identification measures issued in Poland to confirm their identity in foreign online services. Provisions have been introduced which will provide the legal basis for public administrations to make online services available, where the citizen will be able to consent to the transmission of data collected in public registers to those authorities. As a result, those using public online services will not have to provide data already in the public administration's possession in the submission and conclusion and to attach separate documents confirming the fact or legal status known to public administrations. The amendment also introduces regulations that will serve as a legal basis for the functioning of a public mobile application. Within this application, the so-called operation will be started. mDocuments, i.e. electronic documents stored on mobile devices, the use of which will allow citizens, among others. to confirm the rights held. The use of a public mobile application will be free and voluntary. It was assumed that mDocument would be an extract of data identifying the owner of the mobile device. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions are intended to promote socio-economic development. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to amend and adapt the law so that solutions expected by society can be put in place. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u154	Dear Marshal! Minister! It should be noted at the beginning that the level of popularisation, the availability of digital services in Poland is not satisfactory. Unfortunately, I will start with a little bitter words, saying that instead of going to the next level of digital progress, we remain at the gray end in the European Union. This is what comes from the European Commission's digital economy and society index, a ranking showing the progress of EU countries in digitalisation. Poland's next year in a row is at the gray end and has not improved its position compared to the edition that took place in 2017, has not moved by even one place. Despite many promises to move from paper to digital Poland, the Union escapes us in this digital race. Looking at the state of play on these issues we are discussing, it should be noted that currently in Poland there is no tool to ensure uniform and secure access and the possibility of connecting the provider of electronic identification systems with systems that provide services. Public administration IT systems use for electronic identification of their users or mechanisms built inside the administration, i.e. within their internal systems, or the mechanisms of a trusted e-PUAP profile. Unfortunately, a small number of users with a trusted profile, i.e. about 1.5 million people - is only 4% Poles - results in a low level of use. Of course, we should strive to improve this, and hopefully that will be the result, but that will only be shown later. Currently, many systems and service portals providing online services have separate accounts, which forces citizens to set up an individual or dedicated account for a specific system, portal or service. On the one hand, banks use such safeguards that are adequate to their business, on the other hand, telecom service providers use safeguards or systems that are responsible and appropriate for such activities and other public administrations. What's the effect? You can say that for each service, bank account, portal or even online store we have a different login, another password. This causes problems resulting from having a number of accounts and logins, which often cannot be simply remembered. The solution to this problem is the creation of a national electronic identification node proposed in the Act, which will serve as a management role in the federated identity model. The mode of action of the node has, you can say, a little resemblance to the legitimacy of the identity card in the digital world. Indeed, this is a tool that can improve, but much will depend on how it will be implemented. We will certainly be asking questions about these matters at the committee's meeting and we will expect detailed information on these matters. Speaking of the law, attention should be paid to the introduction of a legal basis for the operation of a free mobile application, which will enable Poles to verify their identity. As part of this, m-documents will be launched, i.e. electronic documents, which will be stored on mobile devices. Thanks to them, the citizen will be able to confirm his identity, of course, no longer using many plastic documents that fill out our wallets quite thick. It's a good thing these actions after over two and a half years are finally starting to look something. It should be said that with these first actions introducing m-documents, i.e. verification, among others. citizens who are being detained by the police or at the office, this process of verification and identity checks was much, much longer than taking the identity card out of their wallet and showing it to someone. All the more so the ability to show and transmit this information, which contains documents, between mobile devices is very beneficial and hopefully it will finally be implemented. By 2020, of course, as indicated in these documents, [[♪ The bell ♪]] These services should be integrated within this hub. I hope that there will be no further delays and there will be no situation such as that. took place a few months ago with CEPiK, when this issue ended in a big, to say the least, failure. Besides, there's another six months' shift of sick leave in this bill, too. Let us hope that this is the last shift, and that this project will not have the future that I was talking about in the case of these two projects. At the meeting of the Digitisation Committee, we will ask the Minister in detail about the issues that concern these issues. Thank you kindly, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u155	Thank you very much for speaking. I do not see Mr Wojciech Bakun from the Kukiz club15. Therefore, I invite Mr Paweł Pudłowski from the Modern Club to present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will not hide that I have been waiting for this bill for some time, in fact since 500+ has been effectively implemented by the ability to enter and apply about 500+ through banking domains. At many meetings of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, we raised this issue by addressing the Minister or Undersecretaries of State to go this way. So I'm glad this bill is finally coming to us. I also congratulate the Minister on his personal efficiency, because I know she's been waiting a long time in line in the freezer in the government. Indeed, as the Minister mentioned, ePUAP is currently only 1.5 million citizens. This effectively blocks the possibility of carrying out all kinds of activities with e-government. This is on one side of unlocking this channel. I'm even wondering if we're going too far, giving the possibility of a Federation approach. It seems that banks and telecoms would actually cover most of the area while guaranteeing high security. So, in committee, I will ask how we will guarantee the security of personal data management and verification as a result of the possibility of carrying out a number of activities in public administration by verifying by entities. How do we make sure that these entities meet the safety requirements? Mr Marchewka mentioned that this is not good. Indeed, we are now third from the end of the European Union in terms of the DESI indicator, which shows inter alia. digital skills and the ability to use e-government. So that I very much hope that the introduction of this law and the possibility of passing, among others. from an electronic bank account to e-government services will significantly increase the ability of citizens to use e-services. I would also like to point out that the bill was widely consulted. Thank you very much for this, not all draft laws are discussed in this way. I know that bill was. I'm glad about the mDocuments. This project was presented to the Digital Commission last year, and we hope that as a result of the adoption of this law, we will be able to reduce the number of documents held, the need for material documents, take over what will be possible to put on the smartphone. I'm very happy for you. I have a few more questions I'd like to ask the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u157	Thank you very much. As regards the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats and near Free and Solidarnia, written speeches were made. In the first case, by Mr Krystian Jarubas, in the second case, by Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. But we'll go back to Kukiz15. Please, Mr Wojciech Bakun will present his position on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u158	Thank you, Marshal. Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft law amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and some other laws. There is no doubt that, nowadays, in which more and more services are provided electronically, including by the public administration, it is appropriate to develop and adopt solutions that will, firstly, make it possible and, secondly, facilitate the use of these services. In our view, in my assessment of the club and also in my view, the proposed changes recorded in this bill are a step in the right direction. These rules can make it much easier for citizens to confirm their identity in public online services, which will be a natural way of disseminating administrative services. This is crucial for socio-economic development. It is also a good step towards building a base for systems, such as the systems for conducting urban, local or nationwide referendums, as well as the e-voting system, about which as a Kukiz club15 we have been talking for a long time, i.e. the online electronic voting system. Such solutions, i.e. solutions based on referendums by electronic means or e-voting, will also significantly reduce the costs of such referendums and elections, and, as other countries' experience shows, will also significantly increase attendance during elections or referendums. It is also worth noting what my previous speaker, Mr Pudłowski, said - support for the mDocuments project. In fact, during the work in the Parliamentary Committee, we had such pilotage presented in the Digitization Committee. Besides, I'm one of the people who was very happy to take advantage of it and install an app, and she created her own document. As members of the committee, we believe - I do not want to speak for everyone, but mostly we do - that this is the future. The point is that all the documents, credit cards, all the plastics that often push our wallets, pack and put in one device, which is a smartphone, which practically every citizen of our country has, and if not yet has, will have in the near future. Another very important point of these changes is the common login. I think anyone who uses digital services - not only about public administration services, but also about services, you can say civil ones - knows what a nightmare it is to remember tens, hundreds of passwords to portals, PINs, codes, etc. As we know, the safety rules do not allow us to store this type of data on some documents, which, of course, involves ensuring security. At the moment, one password, perhaps very strong, will be responsible for ensuring security. With this one login, we will be able to authenticate ourselves basically in all public administration services. From the point of view of the citizens, of course, this brings with it many amenities. The most important of these are easier access to administrative services. There is also something that is also a nightmare about such paperology, which still functions in our system, i.e.. automatic filling in of applications with data already in public registers. The point is that you don't have to repeat the same information dozens of times. Enough if we log in using our login, one login. In principle, the data needed to complete any documentation, any forms will be automatically downloaded from public registers and you will not need to enter this data every time. I think this is a significant facilitation and as much as possible a step in the right direction. In view of the above, I think there is nothing to prolong. I do not want to play clairvoyant here either, but I think that all clubs agree with this project, as it is a project going in a very good direction, consistent with development, with the need for state development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u159	Thank you very much. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I hear you do. There's no one left after you typed that person. So I'm closing the list. We begin with Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform. One and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on trust services and electronic identification concerns the possibility of electronic identification of citizens of the European Union in any Member State. Today it is known that the Ministry of Digitalization is working on a national electronic identification hub. My question: At what stage is the construction of a national node? The Ministry's website states that the pilotage of the national hub will be conducted until the adoption and entry into force of the amendment of the Act on Identification and Trust Services. The bill is being processed. How's the construction of the knot? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The national node, system or electronic identification scheme will not be easy because it reminds me of an electronic signature, which was too expensive and complicated, at the same time was burdened with a certain original sin, namely the owner or owner of an electronic signature was the Ministry of Economy. It's never been able to be modified to make it available to the public. Years passed, even terms, and then this electronic signature was not disseminated. On the other hand, when it comes to a trusted profile, it is too simple and probably not sufficiently secure. With regard to this bank identification, it must be said that bank identification is indeed electronic only in typical situations, while banks use personal data very often in unusual situations. And here you have to realize that it's not going to be that easy. I think that in order to build this well, one must first of all be open to solutions that will not be too expensive. You're probably in favour of the owners, I don't know, signing or profile not paying for this knot, just paying the state. At the same time, it cannot be complicated to use it. At the end of our term of office in 2011 we tried to establish [[♪ The bell ♪]] amendment of the Act on electronic signatures - then plural. This did not work because of the Ministry of Economy's resorting and stubbornness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions. First, in terms of funding for the creation of a hub and coordination: Are these funds sufficient? Because we remember the offer of COI from a few years ago, which was definitely higher. Therefore, does the Ministry guarantee that the quality of the implementation of the financial resources provided for in the Act will be adequate? Second: implementation time. Do you feel comfortable with the period you have set? I recall Mr Carrot's words about CEPiK, which, due to the forced deadline for implementation, we know, has been implemented too quickly and has caused great perturbation. So there's no such thing here. What are the reactions of banks and telecoms to this bill? As a result of the discussions with them, could you also share with us their views on how to participate in this federal approach to personal verification? As far as double data is concerned, e.g. Will the statement that the PESEL number will be sufficient and that all other information will be sucked in by the system itself and automatically apply to all activities? I will remind you that after natural disasters a problem often arises, for example. farmers who must once again provide a great deal of information. In the context of the adoption of this law, will such a farmer be able to count on all other information, for example, when he gives his PESEL only. the size of the land, the crops held there, etc. Will they be downloaded automatically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's the right direction, very good direction. And here's full support. But I have a simple question. You were talking about the lack of universal service. As your predecessor for 14 months, I've introduced approx. 130 central services, by the way a trusted profile, very well secured and safe, Mr. Antoni the Man. You can add to the electoral census today, e.g. Honolulu. $20,000. persons in 2015 have benefited from this service. The problem is that there really isn't much service. In that case, I would like to ask how many services the Ministry has put in place as part of the necessary dissemination of these 2,5 years. You can make a mistake about one thing. There's a margin of error. Second thing. The 500+ proposals were an opportunity to disseminate ePUAP, a trusted profile and all the opportunities that electronic communication offers. You didn't do it. You gave it to the banking industry. It was a mistake. The last and most important question from my point of view. I understand that what the Minister has said is, as a consequence, the development of the opportunities that he gives and the profile trusted, and ePUAP as a whole, that is to say, you are developing and complementing these services on the basis of this spine, because it is today this spine, the source. Therefore, the statement by Minister Streżyńska is probably outdated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - or she slipped out - about plowing ePUAP. Is that out of date? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u167	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The national electronic identification node is a wide-ranging integration of systems, which is designed not only to make life easier for citizens, but also to significantly reduce administrative costs. And that's good news. If you add to this the common IT infrastructure of the country proposed by the Ministry of Digitalization, Poland has a great chance of moving to the digital era. There is only one thing: Can we do it efficiently? An example is the implementation of the CEPiK system. The chaos that he was involved in has shown that our country is failing to implement new solutions. The same is true of e-prescriptions and e-medications. We're going to extend these commitments all the time. I would like us to take a reasonable approach to the implementation of the identification node and set appropriate deadlines, which will not have to be extended several times. I also wanted to ask you about the 5G strategy in Poland. She was supposed to be ready for the end of last year. What's the situation today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u169	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking you. I think that this is an excellent proposal, and I think that Poles will benefit from it and will be very pleased. It really is just a bull's-eye, Minister, and thank you very much for that. My question, on the other hand, is whether the Minister thinks you are thinking of electronic applications for funding under the "Good start' programme. This is a very important program for us. We want the program to be very successful this year, and we just care about it. I hope that this law will also enable the implementation of this programme to be extremely efficient. Of course, I also wanted to ask you about the Big Family Charter. Does this law guarantee the possibility of applying for and acquiring the Large Family Card? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am listening to this debate today on this law, and I am very pleased, and congratulate the Minister very warmly, because I hear here from all sides consent to what the Minister is proposing. And I'm very happy about that, too, because I'm having trouble with this huge number of logins that I just have to remember. I'd like to ask the Minister what's going to happen if the person who has a login, I don't know, dies, goes abroad, changes citizenship. Is there gonna be a procedure for putting out that login, or is there gonna be someone who can plug in? It's just about security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u173	And last question - Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u174	Dear Marshal! Minister! Apart from the fact that this node will be created as an action, which is, of course, implemented by the government, similar actions are taken by different actors. I mean, among other things. what the National Chamber of Settlements is doing, which is also preparing a project of something called mydjeID. The banks will be entering this system. At the same time, they indicate information which is provided by the Chamber that by the end of this year as much as 70 or 80% users will be able to benefit from this. So if today we can log in to electronic services via a bank account, and by creating e.g. So if we can log in to services that are related to energy, telecommunications or, let's assume, medicine, then isn't that going to be some kind of disruption? I'd like the Minister to take this into account, as you can see. Because this case is very complicated and distracted - I can say so - and if we are to strive to improve it and actually compile it somehow, it would be worth looking at how such projects work in the commercial market and also in this. I would like the Minister to draw attention to these issues and describe how he sees the functioning and mutual penetration of these issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u175	With this question, we have exhausted the list of people who have signed up for the question at this point. We ask the Minister of Digitization of Mr Marek Zagórski to answer the questions asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much. Firstly, thank you very much for these words, words of approval for this project. We were convinced that he was going in such a direction that for most of you it should be acceptable. Thank you again. I hope we work in committees too. This will be the time to perhaps further deepen, clarify and say what direction we are going. Maybe I will start from the end, from what Mr Marchewka was talking about - this last question, because this is actually a very good question - how do we imagine all these complicated stories and names that function within and outside the law, all of this is one thing to marry another. The essence of the model... We had the choice of two approaches - either to maintain and develop a trusted profile, i.e. to build a state model from start to finish, in which it would have to be possible to use it also in the case of commercial solutions, so that we could not only log in using a profile trusted for administration services, but also buy shoes in an online store... Of course, this would be possible - it has even many advantages, such as security - in theory it could be, only the problem concerns the possibilities: organizational, technical, financial and time. You have rightly noticed that there are too few users of the trusted profile at the moment. Of course, there is an element of such a loop, that on the one hand there are few users, and on the other hand there are few services, but it is as if one is a little connected to the other. It must also be said that as far as the efficiency of this infrastructure you have been asking about, this increase would have to be much, much bigger and should have been much more efficient. At the same time, there are solutions in the commercial market that are already in operation - I am not saying that only in Poland, but above all in the world - are developing and investment is needed there. Possibly taking advantage of these experiences, from this achievement and from this money, including investments that will make business, would also seem interesting. Our first experience was the use of bank credentials when applying for 500+. In this case, we didn't take advantage of the possibility, we just wanted to do it quickly and take advantage of the fact that the banks could confirm the identity, but still incompletely. We didn't require... This solution was like a half step. [[Parallel.]] Parallel. On the other hand, the federation model assumes the functioning of two systems: the state system and the private system, with the law actually describing the functioning of means of identification in the area of administration. In addition, there will be a business world and this knot is my ID, which the Member spoke of. It's my ID that has a working name: commercial node. With regard to this commercial node, the National Settlement Chamber will be an integrator on the one hand of different providers of electronic identification means, on the other hand - service providers, i.e. service providers in the commercial world. This commercial node will be integrated, connected to the national node, and will constitute an access channel through this commercial node, from suppliers of various means of identification collected, integrated in this commercial node, to the national node. Thus, thanks to this identification measure, which will give individual banks, the equivalent of a trusted profile, it will be possible to use this integration mechanism, which will be created by the National Settlement Chamber - here we are talking about the National Settlement Chamber, because it is the most advanced in terms of this process and this work - or other entities - will be able to log in and authenticate both in e-government services and the other way - in commercial services. What is the cost of choosing such a Federation model? The cost is that the trusted profile will be limited only to e-government services, which means that we will be able to use it within e-government. In the end, perhaps more people will benefit from a commercial means of identification and that is what we want. I mean, we care about mass. We assume that if the National Chamber of Settlements actually realizes its project and gets permission to build this system... It is very important that under the law we create an office for digital identity as a solution that will accept technical solutions offered by identification systems, by providers of means of identification. If they build and integrate, and we, I say, create this infrastructure, it is possible that all those who use electronic identification means, electronic banking, will be able to acquire and obtain such an identification measure. Because it's more in the interest than giving a profile trusted by banks, because they're going to carry out additional services, we're hoping for mass. I mean, here we can talk about such dramatic, in a positive sense, moving forward. Several million people will be able to benefit from this offer, which is also important for public services. First of all, we want these resources to be used - and this is what we are working on - in health care to ensure, guarantee the reality of all kinds of medical services provided, which should also allow us to move forward. So, in short, these are not two separate solutions, but these are solutions that are compatible. And that is the fact that in addition to the national hub that creates the administration, there will be commercial solutions. They're supposed to work together. Names may be complicated, but the system will be one and actually... [[But how do you log the same?]] Yeah, the way you log in... By the way, if I wanted to, I could have several or even a dozen means of identification - that's my decision. If I want one means of identification that I want to use in the administration and in the commerce, I'll have the means that the banks will offer me. If I want to use this only in the administration, I'll have a trusted profile within the administration. When we adopted this model, with many reservations, of course, after many discussions - they lasted and certainly extended our working time on this law - we came to such consensus that this solution will give us what we want most and what Mr Halicki said: mass. We want it massed. This is not only an opportunity for the development of e-government services, but also an opportunity for the development of business in Poland, because in this way we give certainty to providers of various types of services on the Internet, that on the other side they actually have a proven customer that on the other side is actually Kowalski. This will be very important for Polish companies, also operating on the Internet. On the other hand, we had the risk of such means of identification being offered e.g. because... they won't be verified. Today, actually, identification is provided by e.g. Facebook or other such portals, because they are able on the basis of our activity to verify us in some high percentage of certainty. I'm going to go back to the question of how many trusted profiles we have and why so little where we're in the DESI classification. We're actually at the end. There are two elements - they are very important and I would like to say about them - which consist of this. This is above all broadband, where we are a little far away, but already the investments we are making should move us forward, also in terms of... and in turn the means of identification should shift us in terms of the position regarding the use of the Internet by business. This is a small business, here we are actually in the tail, at the gray end. Finally, this year's DESI report did not take into account e-tax declarations, which should significantly improve our ratings this year. I've been waiting for the phrase "CEPiK." Thank you so much for this once again. Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm really happy for you. Yesterday we had this festival of complete misunderstanding and misunderstanding, so I'm going to say again: CEPiK works. The CEPiK works, the CEP2 works, has already been stabilized. Thanks to this and thanks to the law that the High House has also recommended, we will indeed be able to implement new services and benefit from benefits such as the lack of having to carry with us a registration card and, first of all, a certificate on the insurance of the OC. However, it is written in the bill that it will only work after checking that all the services are ready for it, so that there are no deadlines and that we do not, again, speak uglylylyly. As far as e-releases are concerned, we really need to remove this from this law, because the solution which shifts the deadline for implementing e-releases is in the so-called. In the meantime, the parliamentary project has been adopted. At the same time, I would also like to say that e-releases are ready, this solution is ready. It's the doctors, unfortunately... [[Problem with computers?]] No, no. I think that the problem is multifaceted and is also related to what we are working on, i.e. with digital competences, a little resistance to this type of solution. The problem is also a little bit on the Internet, it has to be said, actually in some places there may be a problem with that. But I don't think we're gonna move it anymore. As far as e-prescriptions are concerned, there is also a pilot solution in place and there should be no risk for these two elements. [[They still need to see the systems.]] This is the job we have to do, and it's all about everything in general. What I'm trying to say is, I've already told you that this month we're going to be running a new gov portal formula. pl, where more and more ministries will integrate. We will also make my account a place where all services will be made available gradually through personalization. We're gonna be working on e-service, and we're after important decisions on this case today. I hope that this trial will be very forward soon. What I'm saying is, of course, this is how we're going to work so that as much data as possible can be drawn in one place, more, we're going to be preparing it. That's actually there, but we still need to integrate a few small things. It goes on for example. that, before submitting an application for proof, firstly, we should be informed that we are already passing the validity date of this proof, but above all that this form should already be pre-filled by the system. This is what e-login is for, one login and the whole system we're talking about will support it too. Mrs Wasilewska asked what stage the construction of the national hub is at. We're ready, the national node is basically ready right now, so there's no problem. As far as money is concerned, we've secured it enough. This construction is about PLN 5 million, and then we have an estimated 8 million a year to maintain this system. Mr Man asked who was paying, if we know that it is not so simple that the PZ is not secured, whether there are already different signatures, etc. It has changed a bit since 2011. [[It's changed a lot.]] We have a trust services bill, we have qualified signatures, so that's all there is. The trusted profile is safe, although we must keep an eye on and invest in it all the time. These issues, especially security issues, were raised when we worked on this bill. Mr Pudłowski, President Pudłowski asked about the time of implementation. In fact, we're ready for the national node. The problem is not the national node, but how quickly they will be ready, for example. National Settlement Chamber or telecommunications operators. I can tell you that the banks are really the most involved here, and as far as telecom operators are concerned, we will see. Like I said, it's a matter of adopting a bill. We would like the first steps in this area to be taken by the end of the year. It may be delayed, but not because we won't be prepared as the Ministry. We've got it under control right now. When it comes to double data downloading, the system and whether PESEL is enough, PESEL alone is not enough, but PESEL will be the basis of any means of identification. If we have a means of identification, depending on how advanced the service is... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will your marshal allow me to...?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u177	Please, you have a minute, and if that's not enough, I'll extend it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u178	So if we have a means of identification, we log on to some service, that's where everything should be. That's what it's all about. It should be possible to draw from all registers that are available within a given service. That's the point of all this work. Although, of course, we must remember... Going back to CEPiK: this is also one of the many problems that have arisen, it is about the quality of the data that we have. Our problem is not even the registers anymore, our problem is the quality of the data that has been collected historically, and the fact that we have not implemented data quality policy effectively enough. I will refer briefly to this - I look at Mr Halicki - because I have already said that we will use solutions that have already been, so we will not... [[It won't be plowed.]] We will not be re-qualified as the Ministry of Agriculture, although my life experiences are different, we will not plow anything. On the other hand, we're going to change... [[Of course.]] ...it's clear these systems are changing and it's going to change. How many services have we introduced? Now, sir, let me say this. If you're talking about 130 central services at this level and at this level, then I'm going to use the same propaganda and say 500. Really, the report was in the ministry, we've implemented 500 services. [[Applause]] Only the problem isn't that, not at all. The problem is something else: what quality were these services of their nature. They were forms of form, often densely they were very simple forms, copying actually the paper version, etc. We are interested in the services that will be - this is what you talked about - developed, modern. This service, I highly recommend, everyone still has a chance, we implemented June 1st and it is an opportunity to register a child at the civil status office after his birth. It's a service that's actually advanced. There already all the data that are in the systems are actually filled in, you have to type in a few things, e.g. the name of the child. It is worth not making a mistake - always the wife will watch how it will be remotely. So we are talking about this type of service and such a dozen services we have managed to achieve, but only a dozen. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, a dozen, for example, as simple as penalty points, but not only them, because there is still, as I say, a declaration of the birth of a child, also a new version of the application for identity cards. So that we move forward... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Absolutely, no, it wasn't like that. It's not about arguing, it's just that we have to remember that we have a lot to do. [[I asked for dissemination, because this is the way to dissemination.]] That's right. Just a minute. Mrs April, I would like to say that the Member reads our thoughts. We know that this bill is very good, but not perfect. We have at least two more things to work in committees, among others. The ones you asked about. And the answer to Mrs Iwona Michalek's question, which will happen if someone dies. There are safeguards, all this is recorded in the PESEL database, so there's no problem with that. Finally, the last thing Mrs Navel asked was the 5G strategy. Strategy 5G at the end of last year did not... The 5G strategy is something that we will continue to work on for a long time, because it is not about creating a document, it is about implementing effective action. Of course, we have a version of the document, but let's actually treat it like a draft. On the other hand, we are starting very intensive work this week, even internally, so that, as far as 5G is concerned, we will have a very precise action plan, which will end with the fact that we will come to the High House with a bill that will facilitate the entire 5G implementation system, but in general facilitate the implementation of telecommunications investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u179	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A citizen-friendly country today must facilitate its operation in cyberspace. The law on which we are starting provides for the introduction for each citizen of one coherent login, which will ultimately enable the use of all digital administration services. The government has also adopted regulations that will provide the legal basis for the operation of mDocuments mobile application. This is a good direction because it will result in more convenient access to public internet services. Instead of using many logins used today on different websites, citizens will be able to log in using a convenient and safe way to confirm their identity, e.g. through a trusted profile or other means of identification chosen by them, including previously entered login via electronic banking. The service will be supported by a special communication node - a national node - by carrying out a secure exchange of information between institutions, e.g. administration, courts, and individuals. As a result, this should lead to a widespread use of electronic services among citizens. The Act provides public entities with the possibility to create modern services that do not require the completion of complex forms. Citizens will be able to automatically fill in requests on-line with data collected in public registers as part of such services. This will make the use of electronic services more convenient and faster - e.g. when submitting an electronic application for an ID card, the form will automatically be filled in with data. Today, the important thing is that many people use the so-called. mobile devices, therefore the system must also be adapted to them. The Act also introduces a legal basis for the operation of a free mobile public application, which can already be used by people who wish to do so. It will launch the so-called. mDocuments, i.e. electronic documents made available on mobile devices. These may be equivalent to school IDs. Or a city card. To confirm their authenticity and origin, the user can transfer them to another mobile device - this can be a solution that will replace in the future, for example. payment cards. The solution will increase the certainty of identity confirmation, e.g. confirm the authenticity of the city card or school card, because the data will be verified online, synchronizing with the public register. Ladies and gentlemen! There is, of course, one thing. The system must be well protected and protected. It's a priority. It's also a challenge. At the same time, it is worth remembering the solutions proposed earlier. It will be very important, especially from the point of view of records, to move to an electronic medical discharge system. Unfortunately, the above law postpones the deadline for their introduction, but we will not block it for this reason. The PSL - ED Club will be in favour of directing this project to further work on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification and some other laws. This draft amendment introduces a National Electronic Identification Node which will allow the use of the same login mechanisms for both private and public administration services. With the same identifier we will be able to log in to your bank account as well as to the public office or other online public service. It is important that, thanks to the cross-border hub that will operate within the national hub, we will also be able to confirm our identity abroad. It is not known from now on that the digitalisation of many services makes life very easy. Currently, without leaving the house, we can send an annual tax return or pay the bills. I am convinced that using online services will be easier and even more common thanks to this solution. As the applicant points out, the Minister of Digitization will be responsible for the National Electronic Identification Node. It will, by means of an administrative decision, authorise the connection to the hub only of electronic identification systems which comply with similar requirements as those laid down in the provisions issued under the elDAS Regulation. This solution will contribute to the fact that using online services will not only be simpler but also as safe as today. The amendment also introduces regulations that allow us to start using the public mobile app and so-called. mDocuments. This regulation will allow you to use your smartphone to show your ID, driver's license, OC insurance or city card, so that your ID will be faster and less complicated. Any initiatives aimed at making life easier for Poles should be supported and the proposal for this amendment is undoubtedly one of them. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u182	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws contained in print No. 2502 to the Committee on Digitalization, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence (Print No 2555). I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was honored to present to the High House the bill establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Centennial in print 2555. The purpose of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence is to establish a new award: Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. The award of the medal is intended to be a form of distinction between people connected with regaining and strengthening independence by the Republic of Poland. The establishment of the medal is part of the initiative of the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland in the years 2017 to 20201, while referring to the Tenth Anniversary of Recovered Independence Medal established by the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 27 September 1928. There we read about the goals of that medal:.To commemorate the decade of the rebirth of the Polish State, which, after more than a hundred years of captivity, thanks to bloody efforts in the fields of battle and the undead work of the best of their sons, was called back to life... This was the argument at the time when a medal was established on the occasion of the decade of regained independence. The symbol of the proposed medal refers to the sign identifying all Poles - the white eagle. The eagle placed on a diverse surface suggesting a wave flag raises its wings, which is a sign of formation. At the medal, the white eagle is supported by a wavy ribbon with the inscription "Polonia Rediviva." On the reverse, smooth side there are convex initials of the Republic of Poland with dates 1918 and 2018 placed in two lines, covered with stylised leaves of laurin and oak with fruits, with a cross tie at the bottom. Lorenzo's leaves and fruit oaks show the merits for the state of all those who co-build our independence, both in military, civil and social service. The cross union combines these services into one common service, while the fruits of laurin and oak are a symbol of the continuity of this service, bearing fruit for the common good of the common state - Poland reborn. The graphical pattern of the signs of the medal is specified in the annex to the Act. The medal will be a commemorative award given to Polish citizens during the period of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland in the years 2018 to 2021. In view of this time frame, it is proposed that the medal be established by a separate law, not by amending the Law on Awards and Awards. The medal will be awarded to living people who, through impeccable public, civil or military service, struggle for independence and activities for democratic change, active professional and social activities, creative, scientific, literary and artistic activities, have contributed to regaining or strengthening Poland's independence, including in particular the building of a civic community of Poles and a sense of national identity, the development of science and the promotion of Poland's good name by culture and art, social development and strengthening links with Poles abroad and the building of economic prosperity of Poland. The commemorative jubilee medal has a special value. Its broadcasting is an expression of gratitude to the citizens of the Republic of Poland. The intention of the President of the Republic of Poland is to define a wide range of entities which can receive this distinction, so that representatives of various social and professional groups, regardless of their function, occupation, place of residence or age, can feel that building a community of state and strengthening sovereignty is also their participation. This award will be awarded to both combatants and people working for democratic change and to young generations who are successful in the fields of science and the economy. The medal will also be available to Members and Senators, government and local officials, as well as representatives of public benefit organisations, associations, entrepreneurs and employees of various industries. The award will be given by the President of the Republic of Poland on his own initiative or at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, ministers, heads of central offices and voivodships. The Act contains a delegation for the President of the Republic of Poland to issue a regulation setting out the procedure for dealing with cases for the award of a medal, the procedure for dealing with the loss or destruction of a medal badge or a proof card for the award of a medal, the models of the application for a medal and the list of applications submitted, including a summary of the persons proposed to be awarded, the card confirming the award of the medal and its successor, as well as the manner and circumstances of wearing the medal. In cases not governed by the Act, the provisions of the Orders and Awards Act will apply. It is proposed that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. In conclusion, I would like to express my deep thanks to the members of the Heraldic Commission working with the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration for such a positive opinion on this project. High Izbo! I ask representatives of all parliamentary clubs to give a positive assessment of the project submitted, to direct it to further work and to adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u184	Thank you very much, Minister, for setting out the justification for the bill. The Court of First Instance found that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is how providence made us live in the year of 100 years of independence, in 2018. All of us, ourselves and all of you would like us to live to see the 300th anniversary of regaining independence, the 200th anniversary of regaining independence, but it will probably not be possible, so we can be glad that in 2018 we have free Poland, that as we want, as we experience it, as our conscience tells us, our sensitivity, we can celebrate the anniversary of regaining independence. These 100 years, which have passed since 1918, is undoubtedly an extraordinary period: world war, communism, periods of change. Today, in 2018, we are in a situation where not only can we enjoy sovereignty and freedom together, but we can also enjoy a homeland that is safe, which is developing economically, which is open borders in Europe. Therefore, every initiative to live this freedom and sovereignty is commendable and supportive. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to thank the President very warmly for the initiative to establish the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. Very important term: regained independence. I would also like to thank you for the formula contained in the explanatory statement that this medal will be able to receive different environments. Often, we think of people who, for example, are giving medals. During the war they fought for independence of Poland, or those who are extremely well deserved in the fight against totalitarian regimes in regaining full sovereignty, and here the President proposed that such a medal should also be given to people who, in the economic, educational, scientific and all the other places where we build an independent Republic, have shown themselves active. They may receive such a medal. It's very valuable. I would very much encourage the Minister, all the ministers from the President's Office, to point out that there are often young people, that there are outstanding young athletes, that there are outstanding artists who are not smaller than e.g. politicians, scientists or soldiers carry the standard of the Republic of Poland in the world and are also worthy of honor with the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. It is very good that the President proposed, not only in 2018, but also in the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, that this medal could be awarded. This is very important because we can enjoy this independence longer than only in 2018, especially since we will have a number of wonderful anniversaries, which will certainly be an opportunity to join the nation. That's all the people have in common, all the values that we have in common, and that's all there is to support. I would like to appeal to the President, to the presidential ministers, so that the medal can be given as often as possible in local communities. I often point out that when we're invited... It is precious and beautiful that we are invited, e.g. as citizens, to the Presidential Palace or to the voivodeship office in Warsaw - this is important - and then we receive medals. But it is also important that the local community can enjoy such a medal ceremony and that as often as possible it is possible to receive the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence, and that it be a medal which, as the Minister said, will be an opportunity to join Poles around common values. Because without a doubt the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of regained independence is the moment when we can all be together. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice obviously supports the bill submitted [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he will vote for it as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform, will present his position on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence is an initiative by the President, which unfortunately cannot be addressed with excessive kindness for several reasons. First of all, this medal wants to establish a president who has repeatedly violated the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Getting it from the head of the state that violates the highest law of its own state, the system bill, is not a special honor. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the justification in Article. 2 of this bill, to whom this medal may be awarded. So people who, among other things, are. act in favour of democratic change or in an impeccable public service. It is so comforting that, in view of the fact that both this side of the Chamber and the whole community of Law and Justice have consistently voted in favour of breaking the Constitution or violating it, or supported such conduct, that although the Minister said that the Members, the Senators, would be able to receive this medal, this side of the Chamber still has no chance to receive this medal for obvious reasons - it does not meet the criteria of this law. This side of the room, I am talking about the opposition side, on the other hand, cannot accept such a medal at the hands of the President, who is breaking the constitution, the fundamental law, a law which is today the basis for actually establishing all the lower order of laws in the Republic of Poland. So we have a rather bizarre situation, because of course we have a symbolic medal that is to be awarded in the century of regained independence, but with a restriction, I would say that above all ethical, moral, which needs to be taken into account, or at least should take into account anyone who would in any way participate in the implementation of this law, and this is extremely important. And it's probably going to be just like Deputy Prime Minister Gliński did with the independent program. The program was intended to serve different environments. Mr Czartoryski said that this is the advantage of this Medal Act, that it is intended to serve different environments. What happened to the funding in the "Independant" programme when it comes to the activities of different communities just in celebration of the century of independence? The entire stream of money was directed exclusively to the environments connected with the Law and Justice. So I have no illusions about what the intentions of this type of behaviour are, and I cannot express a positive opinion about this initiative in this situation. All I can do is add two more things. Firstly, we are debating this law the day after the anniversary of regaining independence in 1989 and the President did not wish to make a special statement or organise any celebrations on this matter. I understand that for the President and for the Law and Justice, this independence began another time. And secondly, I can express my surprise. As we remember, at the medal, which in the statement of reasons the Minister recalled, the 10th anniversary of regaining independence was visible - after the May bombing it was possible - the head of Józef Piłsudski. I find it a great oversight that there is no head of Jarosław Kaczyński on this medal. [[Applause]] I believe that the President may be unhappy with this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u188	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Czartoryski, this medal does not have to be for everyone, it does not have to be for those who do not understand that independence, true sovereignty is not a tribute to strangers, so we do not have to treat this medal as something that must connect everyone. Not everyone understands that independence is real sovereignty. I present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. This idea should be applauded as much as possible. The idea refers to the traditions of the countries worshiping in this way the most important events, often of crucial importance. The third Polish Republic did not have such a commemorative distinction, which would emphasize and rank what happened in 1918, and the importance of the entire spectrum of historical events inspired by regaining independence after 123 years of partitions. The idea of calling a medal refers directly to the commemorative medal of the 10th anniversary of independence established in 1928, even by indicating the colour of the ribbon of the proposed decoration. It also points to the continuity of the idea of independence, which remained in Polish society during the years of German-Soviet captivity and communist slavery. It is also an ideal separation from non-sovereign Polish People's Republic, it is also an emphasis on the real Polish aspirations for independence. This separation is related to the fact that in many environments we are still dealing with such cultivation of traditions of the People's Poland and constantly resorting to aliens to applaud us in something. This medal is a celebration of people engaged in building Polish, independent and fully sovereign statehood. This is especially appropriate in the year of the anniversary of the Republic of Poland. A certain flaw is the lack of clear censor until this medal is awarded. As a rule, any medals commemorating the national jubilees are awarded in a specific jubilee year. Of course, this requires increased work by the institutions and bodies responsible for broadcasting this medal. In this particular case, it is not only possible, but also reasonable to extend the duration of the award, but up to 2020 at the latest, i.e. by the 100th anniversary of the completion of the most important struggle to defend regained independence. The projector also did not define the proposed medal age in the system of state awards, and due to the importance of the 100th anniversary It's important. The medal should be entered at the level of the hierarchy of the Silver and Brown Cross of Merit, and certainly before the Medal for the Long Service. It is also important to clarify the criteria for its broadcasting, so that from the circle of potential candidates to be awarded eliminates persons who, for example, during the period of the People's Poland they embezzled the idea of independence of Poland, actively cooperating with the communist apparatus of repression, working in its organs or acting in the communist party. [[Like D.A. Peterovich.]] I am definitely in favour, sir, definitely in favour. I hope he never gets a medal like this. This would be possible by introducing a principle of verification of persons presented to be awarded at least according to the criteria of verification of the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity and of persons with powers of opposition and repression. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of this law, asking applicants whose hands will remain to award the award to take our suggestions into account in the practice of awarding the medal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u190	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski from the Modern Club. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mr Michał Kaminski, who represents the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! People who have made the standard of their historical pseudopolitics out of falsifying Polish history should not put their hands on this project should not present it. You real heroes are erasing history cards, and you're letting the communist prosecutor who's the face of your party claim he's a victim of the communist regime. You have exposed your intentions to the fact that the Medal Act on the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence is passed in the middle of the year, on the eve of the local elections, and a Member from Law and Justice has explicitly encouraged that it should be marked in local communities by the well-deserved ones. It is clear that this medal is intended to serve you as a tool for conducting a local government campaign, in a situation where not only do you appear to be embezzling the constitution, as Mr Grupiński rightly said, but you are also embezzling the historical truth, and you are embezzling yourself at every step. Your Prime Minister, who in this act gains the right to apply for this award, claimed that in Katyń Poles murdered the Germans. Your prime minister laid wreaths on the graves of the only underground military formation of Poland, which was really collaborating with the Germans. You have no right to teach history to Poles. Your intentions are evil and unclean. If they were clean and good, you would be honoring independence even from an act that would be an act of justice. As you know very well, many creators, real creators of Polish independence in 1918 were convicted in the Brest process. Where's the initiative to cancel those sentences? It would be a real tribute to Polish independence. No, you prefer to talk about Polish history, as did TV news yesterday, which on 4 June called the symbol of treason and conspiracy of the elite, as if forgetting that on 4 June Lech and Jarosław Kaczyńscy were elected to the Senate, which was restored thanks to a round table agreement. I fear I will repeat that like many other things, like many sacred symbols for Poles, as many sacred anniversaries for Poles you use in a dirty political game, so it will happen now. This medal, instead of connecting Poles, will divide them, as you constantly divide Poles. The real monument of Polish independence will be the day when Poland will regain full freedom again. He's not gonna be a crawling dictatorship where people who ask you questions are being written down by cops. And let me repeat: in free Poland, the police should be from defending citizens from bandits, not defending Members of Law and Justice from difficult questions, not defending Members of Law and Justice simply from the truth, which you fear like the devil of holy water. That's why, though with heartache... Recovering independence by Poland is absolutely a great holiday, it is proof that in these difficult times Poles, who were very divided at that time: Dmowski, Piłsudski, Witos, Daszyński - people who argued and in the press, and in the parliaments in which they sat, parliaments of the possessive countries, in the year of regaining independence by Poland gave each other hands. Józef Piłsudski wrote to his greatest political adversary a letter: Dear Mr. Roman. At that time we were able to defend ourselves against the Bolshevik storm, because unity won over the division, because Poland won over the dirty, party business. Today we're going in the opposite direction. That is why I want to say: you have no right to charge the holy symbols for Poland. The white-red flag is too important for us to hold in the shivering hands of the people of Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u192	Thank you, sir. On the list of people who want to ask a question at this point, one person entered. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask you another question? Nobody else. I'm closing the list. This question will be asked by Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you know, independence is not given once and for all, this independence must be constantly sought and often fought for. We are in the process of celebrating the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. I have welcomed and welcomed the initiative of the President of our country that one of the forms of commemoration of this anniversary should be the establishment of a new award: the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. It will be given as an expression of gratitude to Poland for its contribution to strengthening the Polish state to citizens, who, through, among others, will contribute to the strengthening of the Polish state. accomplishing impeccable public service, active professional and social activities contributed to regaining or strengthening the sovereignty of Poland, building national identity, promoting the good name of Poland, social development, building economic prosperity of Poland and strengthening links with Poles abroad. So each Pole has his right job and attitude to earn this award. And I'm surprised at the opposition's reaction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u194	I ask the Minister to respond to the speeches and to the questions asked, because there were also questions in these speeches. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u195	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First, I'm gonna refer to the club appearances. I would like to thank the representatives of the Right and Justice Club and the Kukiz Club15 very warmly for supporting this initiative and to immediately refer to the words of the Kukiz Club representative15, who had two accusations, the lack of time-cezure and the question of the hierarchy of distinctions. The temporary Caesar is specified in the Act as it covers the years 2018 to 2021. Why? I think that if you know history, then you don't have to explain: for example Silesia will celebrate the 100th anniversary a little later, Wielkopolska too, the uprising in the question of joining Wielkopolska to Poland exploded a little later, in December, so the 100th anniversary of regaining independence extends however in a certain time period. The idea is that the celebrations of this 100-year anniversary include all the essential elements of our 100-year statehood. On the other hand, when it comes to hierarchy, this is not a distinction seen in terms of hierarchy of importance, it is only a commemorative medal, an honorary medal and therefore we do not want to differentiate the weight here and show where this medal would be in hierarchy. This is a unique medal, as Mr Czartoryski said here, we are fortunate to live in 2018, in which as a nation we celebrate the 100th anniversary of our stateship, so such a unique medal will certainly be for all who will receive it, a huge souvenir, and in the future, I think, every descendant of those who will receive this medal will be able to boast that his ancestor, grandfather, great-grandfather or father received such a medal. That is why this is not taken into account in terms of hierarchy of importance. I will now refer to the speech of the representative of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I'm here to protest against the formulation of such a thing that the president is breaking the constitution. I declare that the president does not break the constitution, and what you say is a mere prowess and political narrative, which has no basis in fact. It's just a political narrative that you've been applying from the very beginning without looking at the facts. You're not interested in the facts here, the narrative is supposed to be like this, not different. That's exactly what I understand, but I don't accept this kind of public speaking because there's no legal argument to preach this kind of thesis. The statement of the representative of the club PSL - European Union Democrats was a classic example of how Poles can be divided. There is no need at all for such statements, the essence of which is the division of Poles, not the combination of them. This medal has this feature, that it is to combine, to show those common issues which are important and important for us, all Poles, while your statements here - I speak in plural, because it concerns two representatives of two clubs - were bitter and showed that they are better, are worse and that some have the right to hold the flag and others have no such right. These are statements that Members should never give at all. These are statements that should never be heard in the Polish Parliament. The fact that this project is considered in the Polish Parliament on 5 June is simply due to time convergence. This has nothing to do with yesterday. Yesterday's date has this dimension, that for some people Poland regained independence, and I belong to this environment, which believes that on 4 June, although this is an important historical date, we did not regain independence, because it is difficult to call undemocratic elections to the Polish parliament, to the Polish Sejm regain independence. For me, the symbol of independence will always be the first free elections to the Polish parliament, when the nation decided, and not a part of the nation spoke... received some guarantees and kept the privileges. And this is a dispute that will be fought while we are alive, and in the future it will be judged by history. In general, I believe that malicious statements are always an indication of the level of culture of people who formulate such things. In my view, in the public debate, we should avoid malice, because it is not a language for conversation and agreement. I hope we'll be working in committees or in committee on this award. I would like this honor to those who receive it to be an honor, an honor and a beautiful souvenir from a beautiful time when, together, we all celebrate together the 100th anniversary of regained independence. And I would like us to feel that way so that we take the President's initiative in this way. This initiative has just such a dimension that it will include many people who today, even for legal reasons, cannot receive other awards, and will be able to receive such a medal. The criteria aren't very strict here, because there's no verification here, there's no evaluation issue in terms of procedures. These criteria appear to be clear and legible - impeccable public service, civil or military service, the fight for independence, activities for democratic change, active professional, social, scientific, literary, artistic activities, which aim to make Poland famous, to multiply Poland's good name, to promote the development of our country. I think that these are the criteria that should allow this group of people to be as broad as possible, because only in this way, as far as the future is concerned, can we build our national community. Thank you for your attention. I hope that we will meet shortly during the vote and adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence, contained in print No 2555. The Modern Posel Club adheres to the bill establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century. We are of the opinion that, especially during the celebration of the century of Polish independence, it is necessary to honor citizens who contributed to the formation of Polish politics, culture and statehood. At the same time, we hope that this medal will not be honoured only by people connected with the current power or conservative part of the public sphere.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u198	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the President's draft law on the establishment of the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century, contained in print No.2555, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We do not have a rapporteur. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 27 hours 15 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the National referendum Act (print No 1609). I ask Mr Mark Owl to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, Members and Members of Modernity, I have the honour to present a draft law amending the National referendum Act, print No 1609, which was submitted to the Marshal in May 2017. The intention of the applicants to submit a draft law is to introduce into the National referendum law a provision prohibiting the organisation of a national referendum on the day on which the elections are held for local government units and wojites, mayors and presidents. The conduct of local elections is a major logistical challenge, as on one day not only councillors of municipalities, councils of powiats or seymists of voivodships, but also wójts, mayors and presidents are elected. Due to the specificities of the local elections, tens of thousands of people at different levels of the whole electoral machine are involved in these elections. The difficulty of simultaneous elections to local government and national referendums this is only one of the reasons for the proposed amendments. The main reason, however, is the defence of self-government. Local elections are a celebration of local and regional democracy. This is the time to debate the most important issues concerning our small homelands, our communal, district or voivodeship communities. This time cannot and should not be used to carry out national campaigns, national debates on national issues, and this is undoubtedly the case in the case of a national referendum. Today, our big problem is to convince Poles to exercise their right to vote to participate in elections. The specifics of the local elections show us that it can be different. We are happy to choose the mayor or the president, we are happy to choose local councillors, but in the case of example. elections to voivodships are too often denied the right to vote. It should be our concern to increase the interest of voters in local elections so that we consciously exercise our right to vote and choose the best. Unfortunately, using the term of the local elections to hold a national referendum does not serve this purpose. I want to summon the art. 90 of the present national referendum law, where the holding of a referendum, including the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland, parliamentary elections or the European Parliament, is directly entered, and in no case is the possibility of holding a referendum with local elections. I am aware that there is an interpretation of the State Election Commission, which states very precisely that, although this is difficult, it is legally possible, provided that there are completely separate means of voting in two electoral offices, separate electoral committees. Therefore, it seems to me that the project that I have the honour of submitting today on behalf of the applicants, expressis verbis formalises the impossibility of combining both of these votes. Allow me to make a few points in favour of the proposed amendment. The provisions of the electoral code governing the conduct of local elections differ significantly from those of the National referendum law, which also makes it difficult to conduct both elections at one time. If in one, I'll talk about it in a minute too. Here are some examples of obstacles. Both voting must, as I said, be carried out by completely separate electoral committees with two separate electoral lists and separate ballot cards. A referendum vote can take place within two days and only in one. In the organisation of a referendum with local elections, there are even different circles. In local voting, voters are assigned to their place of residence, cannot vote abroad, on ships, as opposed to what it looks like in the case of a national referendum. Finally, the eligible entities may appoint separate men of confidence. The authors of the proposal to merge both votes as a justification for their shares or thesis argue that the merger of referendums and local elections will bring savings for the budget. That's not true. In this regard, the National Election Office explicitly stated: It is difficult to combine the referendum with the elections of local governments, because each of these actions needs to be carried out separately, resulting in increased costs and organisational difficulties. We need to complete twice as many circuit boards, twice as many locations. Everything would have to be duplicated. So there is absolutely no talking about savings here. Finally, I would like to address one more important aspect that we also took into account when preparing the draft amendment to the National referendum law. I will remind you: this bill was submitted in May 2017. To some extent it was, of course, a response to the announcement by Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, that on 11 November 2018 he wanted to hold a national constitutional referendum. The call for this referendum is still in place, at least in the public debate. This date was exactly the date on which local elections should be held in accordance with the provisions of the electoral code in force at that time. Today, after the amendment of the electoral code, it is known that these elections must be held at a different date, from 21 October to 4 November, only these three Sundays, these three dates may be taken into account by the Prime Minister when the election deadline is announced. Combining the local elections and the constitutional referendum and carrying them out on the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, I want to say directly, is a bad and even a very bad solution. The independence of Poland is a time of celebration, a sense of pride that we are Poles, of our achievements, and not of the time to share Poles. Every election and every referendum makes us vote on one side or the other. Surely this is not the way we should honor the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. In fact, the proposed amendment to the National referendum Act is limited to the amendment of its article. 4. These are four paragraphs. Because it's a short text, if you'll allow it, I'll use it and read it: 1. The referendum shall be set for a day off from work. 2. The referendum shall not be held on the day on which the elections are held for the organs constituting local government units and the wojites, mayors and city presidents. 3. A referendum vote can be held within 1 or 2 days - this remains the same. 4. If a vote in a referendum takes place within 2 days, the voting time shall be set for the day before and off work. Act - in Article. 2 - shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the applicants, Members and Members of Modernity, I would very much like to ask you to support this project. I think we should look not only at the current electoral calendar, but also at the future. The national referendum should never be held together with local elections, because, as I said, local elections are a celebration of local democracy, regional democracy, it is a time of debate, discussion about problems concerning our local communities, not national problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u200	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Milczanowska will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the National referendum Act, print No 1609. The subject of the project is to change the content of the article. 4 the Act of 14 March 2003 on a national referendum in such a way that the legislators expressly prohibit the organisation of a national referendum on the day on which the elections take place for the authorities constituting local government units and the voivodships, mayors and city presidents. In the opinion of the projectors, the specificities of both types of elections are in favour of these changes, the need to ensure their proper conduct and the fact that the implementation of local elections is a major logistical undertaking. Of course, it is not possible to disagree with the statement that local government elections are a great logistical undertaking, but it must be stressed that every national elections or referendum are such undertakings. The need to determine separately the results of the elections to the authorities of local government units at different levels and at different levels, mayors or city presidents is merely technical and does not significantly increase the work of the electoral authorities. The fact that the results are separately determined must not discredit the possibility of holding local elections and national referendums at the same time. The current provisions of the National referendum Act do not restrict the number of questions asked during a single referendum. It is therefore possible that during the vote voters will answer not a few, but even a dozen or several dozen questions. Many of the questions raised by the referendum may require the members of the electoral committees to work significantly more in determining the results than in the case of the local elections. Therefore, the argument that the organisation of local elections is a larger undertaking than an organisation does not merit approval. National referendum. It should be pointed out that the electoral bodies operating in our country without major difficulties have already conducted national referendums in which voters have answered several questions, so that possible simultaneous elections to local governments and referendums should not cause particular problems to the electoral authorities. Projectors also point to a number of divergences in local elections and national referendums in their view. It should be stressed that the provisions of both laws are mostly consistent by using the same wording or numerous references to the electoral code in the field not regulated by the National referendum law. Separate regulation in the above mentioned the legal acts do not prevent local elections and referendums from taking place at the same time or significantly impede it. Some differences in statutory provisions have been wrongly identified by the designers as obstacles to the joint conduct of these elections. An astonishment can be aroused, among others. the argument that the organisation of referendums with local elections is hindered by different elected districts. The division into electoral districts is only relevant in determining the results of the electoral act, and this process is based primarily on the work of the regional electoral committees, which pass on the results from their circuit to the higher electoral authorities. Thus, the activities of higher electoral authorities in determining the results of elections are limited to simple mathematical operations. With regard to the plea of lack of savings on the part of the State Treasury, while holding the local elections and referendums, I would just like to stress that there is no doubt - and I hope that also Members who have signed up to this legislative initiative - that simultaneously holding elections and referendums will be cheaper than holding them on different dates will undoubtedly be less absorbing when it comes to the work of the electoral commissioners as well as the time of the citizens. Therefore, the extremely laconic argument of the designers that the project will have a very positive social, financial and legal impact, as it will legally prohibit the merger of both such different votes, must be considered completely unfounded and, by the way, completely illogical. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I apply for rejection in full in the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the National referendum law, print No 1609. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u202	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wojciech Król will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! The calls for local elections to be combined with the planned constitutional referendum are based on local democracy, the smallest one, but the most important one. Local elections, as Marek Sowa mentioned, are a celebration of democracy, this local democracy, all urban movements, associations and all those for whom the local government is the most important for whom the local community and the life of the local community are the most important. The combination of elections to local government units and national referendums is the destruction of a certain value of local elections. It is in the local elections that we decide who will have an influence over the next few years on whether a park, a square, a playground will be built in our area or whether this space will be concreted. Local elections for people are the most important ones for Poles. In favour of the changes proposed by the Modern, it should be pointed out that such a solution as the President of the Republic of Poland claims is unacceptable for several reasons. Firstly, the National referendum law clearly indicates which elections can be linked to the national referendum and, as such, lists the elections to the Sejm and the Senate, the presidential elections and the European Parliament, but is silent about the local elections. This is not a coincidence, the legislator has not forgotten the elections to local government units, but has found it unacceptable to combine national referendums with local elections. The proposal of modern Members in this bill solves these problems in the future, directly prohibiting the merger of national referendums with local elections. Second, costs. Law and Justice during the recent protest of people with disabilities talked about the fact that there is no money in the budget to meet those expectations of people with disabilities. Here, in this particular case, large money is consumed with a light hand at one time. Although the cost of purchasing additional ballot boxes is estimated at about PLN 30 million, it will not be possible to put cards from elections into local government units into one ballot box with referendum cards. Let me add that this purchase of urns may prove to be completely useless in the future. Going further - two electoral committees will be present at one location. But has anyone thought about whether they'll fit in? In smaller towns, locals are small. In places where two committees will sit, there may be some pressure to take part in the referendum and vice versa. The question should be asked how conscious this will be the choice then, and how dictated by a certain case, by the presence of another ballot card in the same polling place. On the other hand, where the committees will sit in two premises, there may be a significant decrease in attendance and confusion as to where the regional committees hold a referendum and where elections to local government units are held. Another important issue - in a local vote voters are assigned to their place of residence, they cannot vote abroad, on the contrary in a referendum. Another issue is the election campaign. National messages will be mixed with local ones, but also this local message, the most important one, can be weakened by central campaigns, which will reduce electoral awareness as to referenda questions as well as knowledge of individual candidates in local elections. And it should be remembered that in the elections to local government units, we will elect local councillors, county councillors, councillors, wojites, mayors, presidents. Plenty of cards and elections is already large, and the extra charge with a card containing several or maybe a dozen questions will introduce additional chaos. I think that these proposals made by the modern Members are very well founded and necessary. That is why we propose that we continue to work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Bakun will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 to refer to the proposal for amendments to the National referendum Act submitted by Members of the Modern Club. I have, ladies and gentlemen, the impression that we are all sitting here, whether on the right or on the left, the word "referenceendum" is used very instrumentally every time it suits us. An example is the 2015 referendum, when the most cynical and disgusting referendum was used by former President Bronisław Komorowski to try to attract a part of the electorate, which has a very specific attitude to the referendum and who cared about the referendum, but after announcing the date of the referendum, none of the political options actually nodded even the smallest finger in this direction, so that as many people as possible would go to this referendum. You're using it cynically... Of course, it was after the election, let's remind you, after the second round of elections. No one wanted the September referendum to take place at high attendance. Unfortunately, we have a similar case right now. We are trying to change the law that is to function for a number of years, and we are trying to change it only in relation to the situation that can happen in autumn this year, abstracting from what we have an opinion on the implementation of the local elections and the referendum on changes in the Constitution. Let's not go this way. Maybe we should go the other way. Maybe we should try to adjust the rules to make it possible. Let us not limit, but give people more opportunity to vote at the same time in elections, whether it is elections at central, parliamentary level or whether it is elections in local governments. Let us change the rules in such a way as to actually reduce costs and, on the other hand, to ensure that attendance is as high as possible. We know that the referendum is a direct form of civil authority or expression of an opinion which, unfortunately, in our political environment, has very little interest in our society. The turnout during referendums is very low. I think we should be interested in getting to know the Sovereign's opinion, which you so often mention from this speaker, to get to know as many people as possible who want to vote. Let's not make it 7%, 10%. , just let it be 30%, 40%, 50% And I wish that number was even closer to 100%. As for the words spoken from this speaker just now that the local elections are a celebration of democracy, I will agree with that, but the biggest celebration of democracy, the ladies and gentlemen of the state, which is mentioned by our constitution in Art. Four, there's a referendum right now. This referendum, the exercise of direct authority by citizens is actually the greatest form of democracy, because whether or not you choose party hangovers for individual positions again, this is not democracy. This is to offer people a certain choice, and this is not to speak directly on a specific topic, and this is the form of a referendum. You just said that, at the moment, it is forbidden or not legally regulated whether a referendum, including local elections, can be held. Of course, this is not regulated at the moment in the same way as the coexistence of a referendum with the presidential elections, but according to the Latin parallel nullum crimen sine lege - which is not prohibited - is allowed. You're trying to adjust it. Of course, I understand that, but I would still be very careful about lawmaking only in relation to one case, which can take place in the autumn of this year. We make the law for years, not for a specific event that could happen. I would like to remind you, if we are talking in general about the provisions on referendums, that there are a lot of things that we could change. One such thing, which should be changed in Polish law, is the introduction of sanctions for non-compliance with the will expressed by the people in a referendum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Modern Posel Club on the parliamentary draft law amending the National referendum law, which is included in print no. 1609. Ladies and gentlemen! This magnificent, reportable, far-sighted bill presented by the Modern Posel Club is very important for the proper functioning of our country, and especially for our local small homelands. I'd like to say three things. First of all, I want to talk about why this project came along. On 3 May 2017, President Andrzej Duda announced that on 11 November he would organise a national referendum which would be connected, as was apparent from the provisions of the then electoral code, with local elections. I must say, our hearts trembled. The celebration of local democracy, the celebration of our little homelands has a chance to be politicized, because that was the announcement of President Duda. At this point, our local authorities, who decide whether there will be a pavement, whether the road will be repaired, whether the kindergarten will be completed, would be chosen in such a, I would say, a very political period. Why politicized? Well, because referenda usually involve a strict theme. the political, which divides the political scene into biases, causes these divisions. Therefore, our local affairs disappear in the thicket of political narratives. There'd be confusion. There would be a question among those who make these choices: What is important? Is this the sidewalk or the referenda case? Who do you vote for? For the one who better, I believe, will meet my needs for living here, in this place, in my little home country, or for the one who maybe stands on a completely different side when it comes to these referenda issues? This is, ladies and gentlemen, such an impulse to divide our local communities not because of how we judge the achievements of the candidates, but because of how politically we refer to what was presented in the referendum. That is why this project was so needed, and that is why this project was so much appreciated by social organisations. The second thing I want to say is, of course, a logistical issue. It is hard to imagine a situation in which two very serious electoral tasks, perhaps the most serious one, i.e. local elections, are implemented at one time. In our localities, in our small homelands, the headquarters of the committee are in the same places, regardless of whether they are electoral or referendumal committees. It is therefore only in this first assessment that the question arises as to how these elections and referendums would be organised at one time. People are used to going to this one polling place, whether it's local elections, parliamentary elections or referendums. There would be a need to adapt tens of thousands of new places on the Polish scale to make elections to local governments or referendums. These are the next costs, the logistical complications. This would therefore probably be linked to much higher organisational and financial burdens in a situation where these elections and referendums would be held separately. Well, you'd have to provide urns, all the equipment, etc., etc. So this project submitted by the Modern is justified as much as possible. And last but not least, there's one more thing I want to say. A situation in which self-government elections are so tried to politicise that there is a reference subject, by nature of a different weight, requiring a different assessment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is It's really not fair to voters.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u208	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u209	Therefore, we will support this project and ask for a second reading immediately on behalf of the club, because such an excellent project... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. You've exhausted your time limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the draft law amending the national referendum law contained in the sejm print no. 1609. As has already been said by the Member of the applicant as well as in most club speeches, this project responds to the idea of connecting the local elections and the referendum proposed by the President in autumn this year, an extremely bad idea. I agree with the opinion, because it was very well said by the Kukiz club representative15, that this is a very instrumental treatment of the very important element of our democracy, which is a referendum. I think that here in this House, we should show responsibility and do everything we can to prevent referendums from becoming increasingly part of electoral campaigns, no matter how political configurations in our country change. Because today, ladies and gentlemen representing Law and Justice, you feel strong, but in a moment there may be a change, and then I would be interested in your opinion on such an instrumental entry of referendums in election campaigns. Well, local elections and referendums are two completely different things. The idea has been so categorically deleted by the Member here. But, Commissioner, these are different voting hours in the case of a referendum and in the case of elections, these are different voting methods by virtue of the changes that you have pushed through, and these are finally different divisions as regards voting circuits. I am afraid, Mrs Izbo, which will be the result of this merger, or sometimes will not be, so that this vote on the referendum and in these elections, as it turns out, will result in the highest percentage of votes void, whether in one or the other act. Because in the world, Commissioner, there may be such a misunderstanding as we have not seen since 1989 when it comes to the way we vote. Yeah, 'cause somebody's gonna want to go before hours. 21 and he won't make it, because the second place will be simply closed. whether it's already closed, or for example. someone will approach the deletion of individual options in a referendum according to what this vote looks like by changes in the local elections. This is a very dangerous experiment. Hence, the PSL-UED club is in favour of the fact that, in the name of responsibility, what can wait for us, if we submit the voting act to such experiments, this project by the Modern authorship went to further work to counter such acts as instrumentalising elections, so that it does not turn out that in the end it will really be choices which are simply impossible to carry out. This is the responsibility that rests on this House, on all those who create this House. Let us protect the local elections from interference, from such various irresponsible ideas that are inconclusive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Liroy-March, non-member, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The referendum is, in total, the highest form of democracy, which has practically been destroyed by us almost to the end. Let me make this brief today: if anything is to change about the referendum... There is no referendum without e-participation. Today's generation of young people cannot imagine the future without e-participation, and that is the most important thing - you will not perform many referendums and will not be effective until this e-participation is operational. Thanks to e-participation, we will reduce the amount of money spent on referendums. It will ensure that we reach a large, larger group of people and finally get to know the real voice of society, what the young generation particularly thinks about new changes. Finally, I'm going to talk about the most important thing and what I don't think very many people have noticed. When will our referendums finally be mandatory for the government? It is outrageous that until today we confirm this shell in Parliament, in a country we are talking about, that it is democratic and run by people, to this day these referendums are scandalous. This is a plebiscite in which different people organize their own games. In short, without e-participation and, most importantly, without mandatory results of these referendums for the government, democracy and the rule of law in Poland will not exist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u214	Four Members have asked questions. Of course, I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, first Member of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant: Does the National referendum law provide for the possibility of holding a referendum including local elections? The next question is: Is it true that the combination of national referendums with the elections to the authorities of local government units, the elections of the voivodships, mayors and city presidents will bring savings for the state budget? And finally, the third question. Does the combination of national referendums with local elections involve the risk of politicising this holiday of democracy, which is local elections? Is there a risk of confusion, chaos in the case of voters in the local elections and a national referendum because two electoral committees, two electoral lists and separate ballots are needed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u216	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing whether to combine this, whether it is possible to combine local elections with referendums and whether it is wise. And it is good that we are talking about this, while the heart bleeds when we see how the Polish Parliament treats the issue of referendum in general. It is a celebration of democracy, which individual governments, individual parliaments in Poland killed, butchered. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as we don't lift the turnout threshold in referendums until we let people vote online until the referendum results are binding on the authorities, nothing will change in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! The appeal to the government and the opposition: let us start talking about the referendum seriously, not like today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u218	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the question to my excellent colleague, Mr Owl, on the following matter. Is it true that, in view of such a possibility or such a plan of the PiS government to carry out these local elections and referendums at one time, it will be necessary to select additional premises which would not have taken place if these two votes had been held separately? Will it be necessary to select additional premises and, consequently, will the costs of these votes increase? Because the premises that have not been used as electoral premises so far will have to be adapted in some way, equipped. What are the costs? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u220	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u221	...probably millions. Is the Member able to say what the costs are? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u222	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Member of the applicant. Law and Justice have recently complicated the electoral procedure by establishing a new electoral order that changes the rules of the electoral committees, of the state committee, that has led to a situation where we wonder whether these elections will be conducted properly at all. This mess, which has been introduced by these changes, could make these elections so risky that they will be carried out inaccurately if we impose a referendum on it, which complicates the whole voting process even more complicated. Isn't this about bringing this to such a mess that if the election result for Law and Justice isn't good, these elections will be considered invalid? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u224	We have exhausted the list of members of the vote. There was a motion in the discussion... Oh, I'm sorry, but you're still an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I would like to refer to those voices, those things that have been raised here. [[Applause]] First of all, I want to tell you that perhaps at this point in time, because from now on. 15, the President of the State Election Commission, Judge Hermeliński and the head of the National Election Office, present information on preparation in the committee of local government - actually this is information about lack of preparation - PKW and CWB to conduct elections which fall this autumn. At least 200 municipalities do not yet have electoral officials appointed. There's just no one reported. This is the state of preparation today. In my opinion, the PKW has unlawfully issued a decision not to broadcast, not to record elections, because it is explicitly included in the bill. So if you don't revise the electoral code bill, that means that these elections will be held in breach of the electoral code. You use GDPR for this directive, you refer to the position of the Chief Data Protection Officer, but you forget that these recordings were to be archived for 5 years and serve as evidence of whether the elections were conducted fairly and reliably. The transmission is one thing, and the recordings and sources of evidence regarding the proper conduct of the electoral process are the other. [[Applause]] So you really have a lot of problems. I would also like to say that no one would have thought of proposing such a bill if it had not been for some strange idea of the President in my view to combine the national referendum with the local elections. The referendum law is from 2003. No one has ever thought of using local elections to hold a national referendum at the same time. Why didn't anybody come up with this idea? Because in art. 90 in the paragraph. 1 is described very precisely in the case of holding a referendum on the same day as the elections to the Sejm and to the Senate or the elections of the President of the Republic and in paragraph 1. 2 - when elections to the European Parliament take place. And in the mouth. 2 is written directly on the principles of information, debate, broadcast time and other issues. There's no general election here. However, remember that there is a law on a local referendum in 2000, in which there is no ban. And we do not propose to ban local elections and referendums on the same day. [[Applause]] As far as local affairs are concerned, local elections can be used for this. I have heard here the statements of Mr Bakun from the Kukiz club15 or Mr Piotr Liroy-Marc and I fully agree with them. We do not want to show in any way that local elections are more important than referendums. We don't value it in any way. The issue of referendums, whether local or national, is very important, and the question of local elections and parliamentary elections is very important. If we are talking about national issues, we can do this together, but let us not combine the debate on local issues with the national issue, which will be taken over by the media, and through other issues, which in fact will not be able to break through these local issues. I regret to say... There is no longer a Mrs Anna Milczanowska, who presented the position of the club on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. In my view, she has absolutely no understanding of the problem presented. I don't mean to offend you, but I don't think she has much of a clue about the issue that has been raised here, as these are important and crucial issues. [[Applause]] He's talking about some cheaper choices. Please refer to the documents of the State Election Commission. I read it. After all, they explained precisely whether these elections would be cheaper or not. This issue later appeared in the question of a Member. It's gonna be a double cost. I have to tell you what it's gonna be like. There will be two committees in the local elections. For those who work in the day, one diet will be paid, for those who count at night, the other diet. On the other hand, the representatives of the regional committee, who will work on Saturday and Sunday in the referenda committee and will count the votes at night, will be paid one diet. It's two days from now, but there's gonna be a lot more work to do. That's how you do it. How will attendance affect local elections? You're assuming that if someone goes to vote on Saturday, they're going to vote on Sunday? Mrs. Milczanowska says there may be 15, 20 or 30 questions. Will it be clear to the citizen how to mark? Here he has five votes to cast, then he has to report to the second place, answer no one knows how many questions. It's gonna lower attendance. This will not allow us to focus on the most important issues. I would like to thank the representatives of the Civic, Modern, Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats for their vote of support. I also think that we could find a full consensus with the representatives of the Kukiz club15, because, as I said, we absolutely do not put the local elections above the referendum. Every act is very important, everyone is a celebration of democracy, but let us not cover one issue with another. These are separate issues and I strongly believe that they should take place in separate elections. If there is a charge on the part of Mr Wojciech Bakun on the instrumental use of the referendum, then it must be said here: yes. Yes, last year President Duda wanted to use it instrumentally. But that's not a note. To us, just to the president, that's another line. I fully share the view that sanctions for non-willing should be imposed. If there's something, has the proper turnout written in the bill, people make that choice, then there's no doubt for me that it should be 100% binding. And no interpretation... The debate should no longer be held here, but from the vending machine it should be included in the legislation, it should be implemented. Another point that Mr Bańkowski raised here: Can we all do this together? In my opinion, Art. The 90th Bill, as I have already said, is clear about this. Because a small gate was found, perhaps an understatement that there was no record that these elections were not allowed, someone came up with an idea and wants us to serve the combination of these elections today. But that's the wrong thing to do. Will there be savings in the PKW? There will definitely be no savings. Is it possible to politicize? I wouldn't call it that - the issue of politicisation, because municipal elections are also making political choices. Both - I believe - is politics. But I certainly have no doubts about this, there will be a covering of local topics with national themes, i.e. imposing a nationwide narrative present in the political debate. Then, of course, on the local issues mentioned here, on the programmes, in which direction our local governments should develop, which should be implemented, in which order, there will be no room, because people will naturally focus on what is the subject of a nationwide debate. Paweł Skutecki - in general I agree with his statement that referendums should be mandatory, should be binding on governments. As for the thresholds, it can be discussed whether it is being introduced at too high a level or not. It is always possible to discuss here, but this is not the subject of a proposal to amend the law. Mr Suchoń - I fully share this view, but I must say immediately that they can be held in one building, but they cannot be held in one room, in one room. They can be held in one building. If we have schools that we often use to hold elections, then, of course, local elections can take place in one room and there can be a vote in the other room on the referendum. However, it must be completely independent. The committees set up must be completely independent, completely separate from the electoral lists, the announcements. These are two separate electoral processes. As for the urns that someone was talking about here, of course there is no doubt that 30 million to buy transparent urns would be mandatory to carry. As you know, the urns were purchased probably in 2015 or 2016, but these urns were purchased one per circuit. Today we have 26,000. fixed circuits and approx. 2 000 closed circuits. If we double that number, it doubles, of course, 28,000. An electoral urn would be an extra expense that would have to be incurred. In fact, I must tell you that there is no time for this, because there are not even budget resources for this purpose to do so in accordance with the Public Procurement Act by autumn of this year. And to conclude, we do not share the President's initiative in the act itself. I said it in an additional form, that it was an important element, which also influenced our decision. When I watched you have a huge problem with the President's referendum initiative, that you were unable to take this clear stand, it seemed to me that this project could in fact fall from the sky and solve these problems, because the idea of combining and simultaneously carrying out really is not a rational idea. I hope that by the time we decide in the voting block whether the proposal for law and justice deserves to be taken into account, you will still have a personal reflection on the rejection of the bill submitted by modern Members. I also address your marshal as head of the club: perhaps it is worth reconsidering and not rejecting this project, just simply accepting it, because it is really good and long-term very, very valuable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u226	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (prints No. 2477 and 2566). I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I have the honour to present a report on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee of yesterday considered this draft resolution and adopted it unanimously, recommending the High House to adopt this draft resolution, which, as I said, concerns changes in the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament. This regulation concerns two issues which arise from changes in other legislation. The first point is to change the name of the Commission for the removal of legal effects of re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. As we know, the name of this committee has been changed, and therefore the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm must also change the name of this committee to the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. It's an art. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The second issue that has been regulated in this resolution, namely the provision resulting from the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 10 January 2018, on the basis of which the scope of the tasks of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been extended, which, in addition to the management of government departments, is maritime management, fisheries, inland waterway shipping, will also be responsible for water management. These tasks have been transferred from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The aim is to ensure that the whole of the Parliament's work related to this issue is governed by this committee. And we have an art. 2, which temporarily deals with projects that have already been addressed to the Environment and Natural Resources Committee. Well, the committee will normally investigate the projects that have entered it, and they have been transferred to the Minister of Economy in the Competency Act. Once again, Mr. Marshal, I move that the Sejm adopt a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u228	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, prints No 2477 and 2566. After such a thorough presentation of the content of the proposed change by Mr Siarka, I remain merely expressing the position of the club. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour of presenting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform on the draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is, of course, a technical amendment, and refers to the changes made in the law, in the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers. It is worth mentioning, however, that... Of course, we will vote in favour of these technical changes. It's worth two words. The Commission, which, following the amendments of 26 January 2018, is called the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate, which will also be called in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, setting out the procedure for the selection of its members, is an organ, to put it mildly, questionable constitutionally, and for many it is not a constitutional body. The January amendment covered many aspects of this committee's work. It increased the penalty for not being in front of that authority, introduced the possibility of bringing witnesses to trial before that committee on the basis of a prosecutor's decision. The slightest change in this January bill was a change of name, which from the grammatical monster changed a little bit... shortened its name. However, as I say, this did not change the question of the constitutionality of this committee. The second amendment to the Rules of Procedure concerns the transfer of the water management area to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. We understand, naturally it is logical that the area of the committee's substantive work should overlap with the areas of work of the various ministries, but we certainly do not share one of the many controversial decisions concerning the water management area recently taken by Parliament, that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation is precisely the one that is to be dealt with in the broad sense of water management and, after all, water management only in the small part concerns inland waterway transport. It seems natural, however, that the Minister of the Environment deals with water management, in connection with water supply, with sewage. If such a decision has been made by the Prime Minister's regulation that it goes into the gesture of another ministry, then the consequence is the transfer of this competence in parliament, but we see that even within the governing club... In the club of the ruling party these doubts remained. I understand that this decision has already been made and this area will go to the shipping commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u232	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u233	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the committee draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, contained in print No 2477. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft amends the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in two areas. The first amendment concerns the change of the official name so called. the verification committee. The previous name, which was quite long and was, I will repeat after the previous speaker, such a monster, could be said to have been replaced by a new one, now it is the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. This is, I'd say, a change for the better when it comes to the name itself. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure is an obvious consequence of the simplification of the nomenclature resulting from the adoption by the Sejm in January this year. amendment of the law on the basis of which this committee operates. Of course, the Modern Posel Club maintains its reservations about the constitutionality of this body, as regards its legitimacy in the legal system of the Republic of Poland, but this is a technical change and that is how we perceive it. The second amendment concerns a change in the scope of the two Sejm committees, namely the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The first of these committees is to take over the second issue of water management, meteorology and hydrology. This is related to the amendment made in January 2018 to the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers issued only a month earlier on the detailed scope of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The Projector accepted that, since the Minister's tasks had been extended to the above mentioned issues, it was appropriate to refer these matters to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, so that the whole of the seymical work on the scope of the Minister's activities in maritime and inland waterway transport was focused on this committee. In our view, this change is not entirely justified because of the matter which this change concerns. Again, this is a technical change, a consequence of previously adopted legislation, so that's how we're going to treat it. Ladies and gentlemen! Given the above position and the nature of these changes, the Modern Posel Club will not oppose the adoption of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u234	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz joined the question. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to only one change, a change of name, because given the work of Minister Jaki in promoting his person at the meetings of this committee, I wonder if it would be better to change the name of the commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate to the electoral committee of Mr Jaki as a candidate for the president of the capital city of Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u236	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u237	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Club, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the Commission's draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (prints No. 2477 and 2566). This draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm concerns minor changes in terminology related to the change of name with the Commission on the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of the law to the Commission on the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. In addition, the provisions concern the modification of this scope of action of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The PSL - ED Poselski Club is in favour of making cosmetic changes to the Sejm's rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u238	We will join the third reading of the draft resolution in the voting block. Before proceeding to the next point, I declare a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min 36 hours 16 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. Turns out the minister was hidden behind the chair. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Reports on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer in 2016 and 2017 (Prints 2170 and 2416) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (Print No 2544). The President of the Personal Data Protection Office, Ms Edith Bielak-Jomaa, will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today I have the honour to present an annual report on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer for 2016 and 2017. I am presenting both of these reports at a very crucial moment, because on 25 May the direct application of the General Data Protection Regulation in all the Member States of the European Union began, which has largely replaced the existing data protection legislation. On the same day the new Polish Personal Data Protection Act adopted by the High Chamber on 10 May of this year entered into force. It should be stressed that the General Data Protection Regulation applies directly and therefore the Act of 10 May will primarily regulate and regulate only those issues which are required or permitted by the General Data Protection Regulation to be regulated by the national legislator. This includes: the status and procedures of the personal data protection authority. Pursuant to the Act, the name of the data protection authority has been changed. The General Data Protection Officer has been replaced by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, therefore today as President of the Office in accordance with Article. 170 Act of 10 May on the protection of personal data I present a report on the activities of GIODO in the previous two years. This report shall be the implementation of the Article. The 20th Act of 29 August 1997 on the protection of personal data, according to which the General Inspector submits to the Sejm once a year a report on his activity together with the conclusions resulting from compliance with the provisions on the protection of personal data. This obligation was also due to the implementation of the Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, obliging each supervisory authority to draw up a report on its activities and make it public. The Polish Personal Data Protection Authority, which is the current GIODO, and currently the President of UODO, is a single-member state administration body dealing with issues with constitutional empowerment. Chapter II of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland deals with the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, because there are guarantees of the Republic of Poland for the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. The powers of the General Data Protection Officer, in accordance with Article. 12 of the 1997 Personal Data Protection Act included checking compliance with data protection rules, keeping a register of personal data collections and records of data security administrators, providing information on registered collections and registered information security administrators, handling complaints and issuing administrative decisions, ensuring that obliged persons carry out non-monetary obligations arising from those decisions by applying enforcement measures provided for in the Enforcement Act in the administration, reviewing draft laws and regulations on the protection of personal data, disseminating information in this area and international cooperation with organisations and institutions dealing with the protection of personal data. The General Data Protection Officer was responsible for the implementation of personal data protection law and supervision of the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act and in this respect cooperated with national entities and European and non-European personal data protection authorities and institutions dealing with human rights in the broad sense. It is worth pointing out that the General Data Protection Regulation removes some of the existing obligations, such as the obligation to register data sets, or to introduce new obligations, such as: reporting of data protection breaches has changed the scope of tasks and competences of the Polish data protection authority. The general regulation re-defined the tasks already carried out in practice by GIODO, but also introduced completely new competences and tasks. For example, one of the new competences of the Polish data protection authority is the possibility of imposing administrative fines. One of the tasks pursued by the General Data Protection Officer was to monitor compliance with data protection rules. Within the framework of these actions, we have undertaken controls. Checks in the reporting years: the number of these checks in 2016 was 147, in 2017 - 145. In 2016, we also carried out so-called in addition to controls. check. We have made 45 requests to be checked by information security administrators. In 2017, these referrals were 67 when it comes to requests for verification. 2016 was the next year in which the emphasis was placed on sectoral controls. Sectoral inspections have been carried out by the police, district agings, law firms, chambers and customs offices and, as a result of separate provisions, consular departments and Border Guards. These sectoral controls continued in 2017. They included the National Information System to enable public administrations and justice authorities to use data collected in the Schengen Information System, the Visa Information System, i.e. tax offices, consular departments of embassies and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In total, 152 checks were carried out in 2016 together with the checks, in 2017.212. One of the tasks of the General Data Protection Officer, which was repealed by the General Data Protection Regulation, was to keep a national, open register of personal data collections. It should be stressed that the obligation to report personal data collections for registration by GIODO was already limited by the Polish legislator. An example of this was the revision of the existing Data Protection Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. In 2016, data controllers reported almost 35 thousand to the General Inspector for registration. harvesting and in 2017 - almost 27,000. harvesting. Such a high number of applications for registration in 2016 compared to the number of applications in 2017 resulted from the failure of personal data controllers to comply with the provisions of the Act of 7 November 2014 on facilitating the pursuit of business activities, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. In the light of the provisions of this Law, data controllers processed in non-conducted collections are excluded from the obligation to register the collections, except for those collections that contain sensitive data, and those administrators who appointed the data security administrator and submitted it for registration to the General Data Protection Officer. Numerous changes in the law generated an avalanche influx of new harvest applications for registration. E.g. The 500+ family was around 2 000. procedures for the notification of collections for registration, but also updates and requests for a decision to delete the collection from the register, e.g. resulting from changes in reporting regulations. Among the cases under consideration in 2017, the reports of the collections in which data operations were carried out using modern technological solutions deserve special attention. These processes include, in particular, the processing of data in mobile applications, the implementation of biometric solutions, the provision of geolocation services, the use of video surveillance. At the end of 2016, the national, open register of security administrators of information kept by the General Inspector expired 2 years of operation. The GIODO Security Administrators Register saw not only as a form of control over ABI's appointment and subsequent performance of its tasks, but also played an important role in the process of education and self-verification of data controllers. If the administrator decided to appoint an ABI, he had to provide the required legal conditions for its operation and declare that it complied with statutory eligibility requirements. For this reason, registration contributed not only to strengthening the role and position of information security administrators, but also to improving the efficiency of the entire data protection system in Poland. This is extremely important, especially in the context of the application of the new data protection rules and the role of the Data Protection Officer provided for by the General Data Protection Regulation by many current data protection administrators. In 2016, more than 8 000 were received at the GIODO office. notification of the appointment of security administrators, in 2017 - over 6,000. At the end of 2017, the total number of all ABIs entered in the Inspector General's Register amounted to over 26,5 thousand. Since 25 May of this year, there has been no obligation to report data sets for registration, since the Regulation has abolished the general principle of notifying the authority of processing personal data and focuses on processing operations which may result in a high risk of breach of the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned. Information security administrators have been replaced by personal data protection inspectors. All Member States of the European Union have uniform criteria and procedures for the appointment of such persons, rules on their status and tasks. As a result, the Regulation strengthened the role and position of data inspectors, which has influenced and will certainly significantly improve the level of protection of personal data through the use of proper procedures and processes for the processing of personal data. The General Data Protection Officer has given great importance to educational activities and cooperation with data controllers and information security administrators, as we are about to do. In the light of the provisions of the Law of 16 July 2004, the telecoms operator, in addition to the fact that it is obliged, of course, to protect the personal data of its clients, is obliged in particular to inform the competent authority for the protection of personal data and the subscriber or end-user if a breach of data protection is found. Since 25 May, the scope of this obligation has been extended, as other entities have also been covered by it in the case of so-called. Data leak. In 2017, 222 notices of personal data breach by providers of publicly available telecommunications services were received by the Office of the General Data Protection Officer, which was 53 cases more than in the previous year, i.e. in 2016, in which 163 notifications of the breach were received. The General Data Protection Officer, among the tasks he has carried out and the President of the Office, among the tasks he carries out and will carry out, is also required to deal with complaints. In 2016 and 2017, GIODO settled in cases concerning the processing of personal data on matters that have been the subject of proceedings several times in previous years. The repetition of complaints and the approach of data controllers to specific issues mean that, unfortunately, the awareness of those involved in the processing process, the awareness of administrators and their knowledge of rights and obligations related to the protection of personal data is still insufficient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2017, almost 3,000 were received by GIODO. complaints...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u240	Minister, get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u241	...on breaches of data protection rules, which is unfortunately more than the previous year by 17%. As far as complaints are concerned, there are two interesting trends. The first is the continuing high level of complaints about the processing of data by the public administration sector. The second trend is a sharp increase in complaints in the category: Internet. Unfortunately, I have to go. This report is, of course, available and presented to the High House. I strongly encourage you to analyze it. We are in a special moment, because now, from May 25th, as I have already said, we are the Personal Data Protection Office. And in order to protect personal data, in order for the personal data protection system to function properly, to protect this system and its proper functioning, a strong and independent supervisory authority must be able to ensure that the protection of personal data is properly respected in Poland. I am talking about this in the context of still insufficient resources, financial resources and staff resources now the Office for Personal Data Protection. Taking this opportunity, I would like to say from this point of view that this is the last report that the President of the Office still presents as the General Data Protection Officer, with the operation of the General Inspector. Next year I will, hopefully, have the opportunity to report as President of the Office for 2018. This will be a report, which I believe will already be included in the first proposals that will be able to answer the question of how we have all dealt with the challenges. Given that this is the last GIODO report, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my predecessors in the position of General Data Protection Officer and all the staff of the Office of the Inspector General for Personal Data Protection for 20 years of personal data protection work. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u242	Thank you, Chairman. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u243	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Madam President! I present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer in 2016 and 2017. The Commission took note, at its meeting on 17 May 2018, of the report by the General Data Protection Officer on its activities in 2016 and 2017. This report was presented by the Deputy General Data Protection Officer, Mr Mirosław Sanek. The deputy recalled that such a reporting obligation arises from the content of the Act of 29 August 1997, specifically from the content of the article. 20, which does not specify the deadline for submitting reports on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer. There is simply no deadline for whether these reports for the previous year should be submitted in the Sejm by the first quarter or by the second half of the year, hence the report for 2016 was submitted on 28 December 2017 and the report for 2017 on 16 March 2018. In 2016 and 2017 the so-called "GIODO" inspectors were carried out. Sectoral controls, e.g. in police, district old offices, law firms, chambers and customs offices, consular departments of embassies and Border Guards. The registration of security and information administrators and personal data collections covered more than 34 thousand in 2016. collections, the following year - more than 26 thousand. harvesting. Deputy GIODO stressed that modern technology telesolutions were applied. The registration of information security administrators covered more than 8 thousand. That's the kind of conclusion. The personal data breaches reported concerned primarily the areas of Telecommunications Law. There have also been a lot of complaints from citizens about housing issues. The citizens' complaint for a personal data breach in 2017 was 2950. These complaints are dealt with by 51 employees in the complaint department. Their duties also include matters relating to legislation and administrative decisions. There are also legal questions in the catalogue of competence of the supervisory authority. In 2016, there were 3320 in the following - 2339. There were also so-called. Statement by the General Data Protection Officer - 109 in 2016 and 104 in 2017. For administrative enforcement, 67 Decisions were issued in 2016 and 85 Decisions in 2017. 36 criminal reports were reported in 2016, and one year later, 31. The General Data Protection Officer has been involved in the work of the European Data Protection Board. In the course of the discussion, Members raised the issue of the GIODO budget, which is quite modest for an institution of state rank - PLN 19 million. In total, over 100 employees are employed there. There was also a question of the cost of renting a private property, where there is a high rent. It seems that this case should be dealt with in this way. In Warsaw there are properties of the State Treasury. Such an authority, which is enshrined in the Constitution, should have its seat in the property owned by the State Treasury, and therefore of course it would not have to pay this high rent and then the costs would have been completely different. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights unanimously adopted the 2016 and 2017 reports, recognising that the General Data Protection Officer has carried out his statutory duties correctly and that there are no reservations as to its functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u244	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the activity report - I will use the previous name once again, because this is precisely the case for these legal developments - the General Data Protection Officer. Both of these reports, both from 2016 and 2017, as I have already stressed as rapporteur, are the latest reports on the Personal Data Protection Act of 29 August 1997. All the most important competences of the then General Data Protection Officer are described in detail, i.e. the monitoring of compliance with personal data protection regulations, the receipt and conduct of personal data collections and collections of information security administrators, i.e. ABI. This position in the new law will be called otherwise, they will be personal data protection inspectors. High Izbo! The issue is: we are, of course, in a new state of law, as has already been mentioned, since 25 May, there has been a new law on the protection of personal data of 10 May 2018 and it is to be expected that, in view of the fact that the scope of competence is extended, there will be more complaints. There will also be more different kinds of harvests. This is also due to our legislative activity, because the laws we adopt make it necessary and give new powers to the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. There is simply a real need to increase employment as well. If the complaint department that deals with legislation, which will also answer the legal questions of a number of institutions... There will certainly be a problem with the interpretation of the new rules, which is why it seems appropriate that matters relating to the preparation of the budget of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data for the coming year should also take into account new tasks arising from the new law and from the European Union directive of 27 April 2016. Consequently, the position towards the report is, of course, positive, such as that of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u246	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club by Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Madam President! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to reports on the activities of the Data Protection Officer general in 2016 and 2017, prints 2170 and 2416. The General Data Protection Officer has submitted detailed reports on his activities for 2016 and 2017 to the Sejm, together with conclusions resulting from compliance with the provisions on personal data protection. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the deadline for the submission of the 2016 report, because in my opinion this report is late for the whole year and does not meet the objective of the Personal Data Protection Act. Although the Act does not specify, it does not indicate the exact date for its submission, but, given the statutory purpose of reporting to the Sejm for the past year, it should be considered that the General Data Protection Officer has failed to comply with the obligations under the Act. The main purpose of the analysis of the reports was and is to assess the compliance with the provisions on personal data protection, in this particular case in 2016, which the Sejm could not carry out due to failure to report. This assessment only makes sense if it is made within a short period of time from the end of the reporting year, as the conclusions and recommendations resulting from it can be implemented as soon as possible. It was very bad, although it is not a matter of the General Data Protection Officer, that the reports were not considered during the debate on the new Personal Data Protection Act and the implementation of the new EU legal framework for the protection of personal data into the Polish legal system. It is a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. This made it much more difficult to look at the new provisions of the Act in the light of the existing situation in Poland and, which is very important, made it difficult to prepare the relevant conditions of the new body. At this point, I would remind you that the General Data Protection Officer is facing serious problems arising from the lack of a proper place of establishment and the need to bear very high commercial costs of rent for rented premises, as well as insufficient security of current expenditure. Every year, while working on the draft budget, I raise the problem of too low funding for GIODO's tasks. However, this case is still unsolved. I believe that the Minister of Finance will provide additional funding for the implementation of new, very important tasks concerning the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. Turning to the details of the reports, it should be stressed that they have been produced in a transparent and legible manner, which certainly facilitates analysis and evaluation. The main task of GIODO and his office was to supervise and monitor compliance with the provisions on personal data protection, keep a register of collections, handle complaints and issue administrative decisions. The analysis of reports shows a systematic increase in the number of personal data protection tasks, points to new challenges related to the progressive globalisation and development of information technology. Each year, the number of complaints concerning personal data breach increases. In 2017, 2950 complaints were received, i.e. 17% more than in 2016, as in the previous year. The following trends arise from the analysis of complaints by category. The biggest share are complaints from the category: Internet, which relates to the widely understood processing of data in the IT network. Significant percentage of complaints, because about 16% the general concern of the activities of banks and other financial institutions, including those relating to the recovery of claims. The large scale of complaints in this area has persisted for years. A significant number of complaints about the processing of personal data by the public administration concerning the acquisition of data in relation to the need to grant certain benefits, exchange of personal data between entities and the posting of personal data on the websites of local self-government units. In 2017, the General Data Inspector carried out a total of 145 checks on the compliance of the processing of personal data with the provisions of the Act, i.e. at the level completed in 2016 A smaller number of controls on the one hand are the result of an increasing number of centralised IT systems, which significantly extends the scope of such checks, while on the other hand it is directly linked to too few employees of the Office of the General Data Protection Officer dealing with checks. The General Data Protection Officer shall keep a national, open register of the personal data sets to which applications for registration are submitted by the controllers. The most important objective of registering collections is to ensure transparency and supervision of compliance with personal data protection rules. In 2017, data controllers reported nearly 26 600 personal data sets to the register. It's a huge scale. It is a very important task of a continuous nature to evaluate the legal acts and regulations on the protection of personal data, which should eliminate irregularities concerning the processing of personal data already at the stage of the creation of the law. The error that GIODO points out in the opinion of the legal acts is the definition by the designer in the provisions of special consent as a legal basis for the acquisition and processing of data by public administrations. Such solutions are contrary to the principles of functioning of the authorities of the State, which are, after all, laid down in the Constitution. GIODO stresses what it is absolutely important to agree that the processing of data by all state administrations must have a legal basis in a specific legal act and not be carried out on the basis of the consent given. In a different situation, data processing is the source of legitimate complaints. GIODO's extensive information and education activities deserve to be highlighted. Publishing activities and the organisation of conferences, trainings, seminars, meetings and competitions are increasingly effective in raising public awareness about the need to protect personal data. More and more consumers and, what is very important, young people at school stress how important it is for them to protect their privacy. They expect such measures to protect them. It is worth noting the challenges identified in the 2017 report for the data protection authority. It is undoubtedly the implementation and dissemination of new technologies. This development is taking place in the area of both improving and developing new hardware solutions as well as new information processing technologies such as artificial intelligence, new deep data analysis technologies, dynamically developing Internet of Things, mobile applications or mobile stationary measuring devices. These and new technologies must be met by the Data Protection Authority. In order to do so, it must be equipped with all necessary tools and have highly specialised staff and adequate budget. I believe that the government, as well as the parliament, will create such conditions for this body to carry out these tasks at the highest level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u248	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now. There's no envoy. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club on reports on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer for 2016 and 2017. The Modern Members' Club accepts them, although, of course, not without reservations, although I would add that the reports have been prepared in a clear, reliable and structured manner. Today, however, instead of focusing on the calculation of errors that no longer exist in GIODO, we need to develop solutions that will allow the newly established institution, i.e. the Personal Data Protection Office, to function properly. The task of the Office should be to support companies, institutions and organisations in the implementation and consistent compliance with security procedures and policies which guarantee the best possible protection of Poles' personal data. The financial penalty should be the last used tool when any other method fails. In the world of dynamically developing modern technologies, information about us becomes an indispensable element of almost every service or product. There is a reason why personal data is called oil in the 21st century. With this greater commitment, we must protect them. Unfortunately, insufficient budget, insufficient staffing and low salaries, who, having gained expert knowledge, are very often going into business, have made it impossible for the Chief Data Protection Officer to carry out his tasks well. The main concern is the proceedings relating to the investigation by citizens of their right to the protection of personal data. From the information obtained by the Minister of Digitization and contained in the impact assessment of the regulation adopted a few weeks ago, following an analysis of the judgments of the NSA in 2015, because such statistics are available, provided that these data are reliable, it appears that the average duration of proceedings for personal data breaches in Poland until the decision in the first instance was taken by GIODO is 295 days, and in the second instance - 437 days, while the waiting time for a valid decision is on average 600 days, i.e. about 2 years. The statistics show a huge scale of the problem, and I would add that the issue concerns the accuracy of the data received from the Ministry of Digitalization. In 2015, proceedings were conducted for which the citizen had waited more than 1600 days for a final sentence, i.e. over 4 years. It is unacceptable for procedures to last so long. The problems that GIODO had to face are becoming more dramatic in the context of the creation of UODO, as this institution has been legally assigned a large number of new tasks, e.g. approval of codes, certification process, etc. It is not possible for this office to operate properly unless it receives more funding for its operation. Here, basically, you'd have to address the Ministry of Finance. Without this, despite the introduction of new regulations, citizens' right to the protection of personal data will not be properly respected. The structure of state funding of GDPR-related activities raises doubts. Art. The 104th Personal Data Protection Act says that money from possible penalties goes to the state budget. However, there have been media reports that only 30% of the funds needed to maintain the institution will come from a direct state grant. Up to 70% are to be the proceeds from the penalties imposed. I would therefore like to ask whether this is true, because if this were to happen, in practice this would mean that it would be in the interests of officials not to educate and support companies, but to impose financial sanctions. The GDPR is about ensuring that the data is adequately protected and that the office provides citizens with a sense of security in this regard. If the information on the funding of the Personal Data Protection Office from the penalties proved to be true, paradoxically, there could be a situation where the office would not be interested in the proper protection of personal data by organisations, because only the violation of their laws gives the office and its employees the means to maintain it. For obvious reasons, this information raises concern, especially for micro-entrepreneurs, whose companies cannot afford cost-effective professional legal services. I hope that these media reports are not reflected in reality, and here I am asking the President to make any comment on this information. Regardless of the way the Personal Data Protection Office is financed, the potential penalties, up to EUR 20 million, give rise to the obvious fear of even large companies and institutions. The report on the activities of the Chief Data Protection Officer for 2016 and 2017 also informs about various projects aimed at promoting the protection of personal data. In my opinion, how much they were and are insufficient, is witnessed by the current panic of Polish entrepreneurs who were forced to introduce the new law into their companies instantly. This is also due to talks with business representatives and media reports. There was simply a lack of training or conferences to disseminate knowledge about the implementation and functioning of the new rules. There was also a lack of time, because the bill was passed at the last minute, just before the EU regulation came into force; at the end of her speech, the President mentioned this problem. By the way, we had 2 years to adapt to this Polish legislation, so everything could be done calmly, prudently, without hysteria and makeshift. Especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have little knowledge of GDPR, at the basic level. They mostly know the levels of potential penalties, worse with the knowledge of how to carry out obligations under the new rules. Micro-entrepreneurs are mostly just starting to get acquainted with the regulation. In conclusion, I will repeat that the Modern Posel Club is in favour of the report, but many of our doubts are raised by a new law on the protection of personal data and on the functioning of the Personal Data Protection Office and we will look closely at it. Finally, I have one more question: Doesn't the new law, adopted in such a hurry, require an amendment at this stage? Many of its records remain in disagreement with the GDPR, as indicated by the Chief Data Protection Officer himself. On this occasion, I would like to wish you many successes in your new position, but also support from the government and the parliamentary side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u250	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Mr. Speaker! Madam President! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, I would like to present my position on the report on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer in 2016 and 2017 together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, Parliamentary Printing Nos 2170, 2416 and 2544. The General Data Inspector controlled the compliance of the processing of personal data with the provisions of the Act, issued administrative decisions and dealt with complaints about the implementation of personal data protection regulations, kept a register of data sets, assessed legal acts concerning the protection of personal data, initiated and undertaken projects for the improvement of personal data protection. He also participated in the work of international organisations and institutions dealing with the protection of personal data. On 10 May 2018, the Sejm adopted a new Personal Data Protection Act which replaced the 1997 Act and provided for the liquidation of the Authority and the establishment of a new competent authority on the protection of personal data, i.e. the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Today, the High Chamber will therefore consider the last general report of the Data Inspector for 2016 and 2017. The GIODO inspectors carried out 147 inspections in 2016 and 145 inspections in 2017. 67 follow-up speeches were also submitted. GIODO has also carried out sectoral checks in the past two years, including police, district old offices, law firms, chambers and customs offices, consular departments of embassies of the Republic of Poland and the Border Guard. It should be stressed that such a wide range of activities was carried out by an institution with very thin staff resources: in 2016 it employed 17 inspectors, a year later this number increased to only 19. The Office also dealt with the registration of information security administrators and personal data collections. In 2016, data controllers reported for registration nearly 35 thousand. harvests, and a year later - 26,5 thousands. harvesting. In 2016, more than 8 000 registered at the Office of the General Data Protection Supervisor. requests for registration of information security administrators. Most, because about 1,000, applications have been examined. A year later, in 2017, 6153 applications were received by GIODO and more than 5,000 were registered. At the end of 2017, the total number of registered information security administrators exceeded 26 000. Also in this case, it is obvious that such a large number of cases served only 12 staff of the Department of Registration of Information Security Administrators and Personal Data Collections. The General Data Inspector also dealt with the handling of complaints. In 2017, close to 3 000 were received by GIODO. complaints concerning breaches of personal data protection rules. A year earlier, there were 340 fewer complaints, which means that we are seeing an increase in the number of complaints year by year by several percent. This is a constant trend. Full application of GDPR rules is expected to significantly increase the number of complaints affecting the new institution that has recently replaced GIODO. Over the past two years, the inspector general's office has also answered legal questions. In 2016, a total of 3320 such letters were considered and in 2017 2339. The questions concerned mainly the administration, the judiciary and education, as well as health services, labour law and housing. The General Inspector also made numerous speeches. In 2016, the total number of applications sent by GIODO amounted to 109 and in 2017 to 104 applications. The proposals focused mainly on identifying legal gaps in the area of privacy protection, respecting the data subject's right to protect his personal data, as well as inaccuracies in existing and newly created legal regulations. The main topics of the speeches are: the provision of personal data to unauthorised persons, the acquisition of copies of identity documents and the unlawful application of consent clauses for the processing of personal data. In 2016, the Authority sent 36 notifications of suspected crime and a year later 31. Most of the notifications were suspected of committing a crime in relation to marketing purposes outside the consent and the provision of personal data without a legal basis. GIODO also engaged in extensive international cooperation and educational activities. That's worth mentioning, too. Numerous trainings, interviews, publications, guides on the website after cooperation with entities have undoubtedly contributed to the dissemination of knowledge about the protection of personal data. During the two reporting years, the Authority has concluded 12 agreements with higher education institutions in the field of data protection cooperation. In cooperation with the spokesperson for the rights of the child and the Minister of National Education, GIODO implemented a nationwide educational program at the school premises, your opinion, your business. High Izbo! In relation to the vast amount of tasks carried out by the General Data Inspector, one cannot ask why such an important institution is located in rented premises - and it is rented at a considerable price. Like other state institutions, the Office for the Protection of Personal Data should have its permanent seat. I think that today it is also worth appealing to the High House on this occasion and, above all, to the benches in which representatives of the parliamentary majority sit, to understand this issue and to find a lasting solution to the situation of the local office. The financing of GIODO is also an important aspect of the reports presented. Due to the introduction of GDPR and the growing role of protection of personal data as well as the market for personal data, the role of the supervisory authority in this field will also increase. GIODO, or UODO, will receive PLN 30 million from the budget reserve, but it is necessary to monitor carefully whether the office will be able to fulfil its new responsibilities at the appropriate level. Unfortunately, so far, it has been a highly underfunded institution. I think that this change is a good time to touch this problem with reflection and to properly fund this body, given its growing role. I will join in with the wishes made to you by the President by Mrs Stępień, and allow me to conclude with the declaration, firstly, that the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats - accepts and will express this report as much as possible, and secondly, that we also wish the President the best possible result of the work you have undertaken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u252	Thank you very much. Three Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of requests for questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Madam President! My question, of course, concerns the general budget of the Data Protection Officer for 2018. During the discussions in the Committee on Public Finances, when we debated the budget for this year and when this budget was not increased despite the proposals, there was a message that it would be amended with the entry into force of the new rules. I have a specific question. Has the President received new or additional funding from the budgetary reserve? If not, how much is the shortage today, what finances would allow the right body to create with adequate employment and current expenditure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u254	Thank you. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! We have a new legal system and the question arises: What about the ongoing infringement proceedings concerning personal data protection rules that GIODO is considering? How will they be settled, whether under the new rules or under the transitional provisions? According to what? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u256	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! I wanted to ask a question that goes slightly beyond the matter of the report, because it concerns the issue of the state as of today. We all know that there is basically a kind of revolution in our approach to the protection of personal data. And I wanted to ask you the question of how you, your office, evaluates the preparation of the participants in economic or social life for new obligations, new regulations. The subject is important, it concerns a very important sphere for each of us personally, and I would therefore ask you very much if the President would be kind enough to ask for such a brief assessment and to present his opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u258	Thank you. Please, the President of the Personal Data Protection Office, Ms. Edith Bielak-Jomaa, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to address all the comments and questions. The General Inspector reported for 2 years, 2016 and 2017, and this was unfortunately due to the excess work related to the European Regulation. These work on the team we have was huge, because they were both in Europe and Poland and concerned the issue of the correct implementation of the regulation and, as we forget very often, which we are not talking about enough, the police directive, because the reform of the protection of personal data covered and includes not only the regulation, but also the police directive. So this was the involvement of GIODO's employees with these two huge systems and huge legal solutions. On the other hand, this also led to the fact that this last year was a period of extremely hard work, intensive, very intensive work on preparing the inspector's general office to carry out the tasks that the regulation imposed on it. And in view of the need to take these responsibilities into account, the new tasks had unfortunately to be changed due to the planned changes in structure and the change in name. It wasn't just a matter of a few thousand zlotys in connection with this change of office. On the other hand, as far as the budget is concerned, I will immediately say that the appropriations in the budget reserve have been taken into account for this, while we have been informed that we now have 3 million of this reserve for, it seems, 30 posts. To be honest, I do not know exactly now whether I am able to answer in a responsible manner, so may I present this information in writing. This, however, only takes into account a certain radius of our needs, because the employment of employees is one of the elements of the functioning of the office, because the employee must have a place of work, i.e. the entire infrastructure, but must also operate an IT system within which we... That's a lot of money. And this, of course, in no way meets our expectations or guarantees us the proper performance of our tasks. So we are counting on these measures to be mobilised, and we have announced, I have decided that we are announcing the recruitment of workers because we are unable to carry out these new tasks - we hope that, according to the ministry's position, the funds will be mobilised from the reserve when such legitimate needs are presented. As for what was very disturbing to me, Mrs Stępień asked about the punishment measures, about the proceeds from the penalties. They're some kind of... I don't know where the news came from. That is absolutely not true. What I'm trying to say is that this is absolutely not true. This could not be the case because I would remind you that the Personal Data Protection Office, the supervisory authority, is to be an independent body and cannot, should not and must not in any way be made dependent on the proceeds of penalties. So I'm absolutely verifying here... [[That's what I wanted to hear from you.]] Yeah, that's totally not true. That's the first I've heard of that information. But around the regulation and around the functioning of the office, there have actually been so many myths that we are still fighting this. When it comes to what's also not true, it's time. the duration of proceedings. I know this information, it actually existed in the media space. It was simply added up all the time, from the moment the case was brought into GIODO to the judgment of the court. Therefore, this period has been established. automatically extended. Punishment - I know that punishment is also a subject that arouses huge emotions, especially among entrepreneurs, especially among small and micro-entrepreneurs. However, I would like to refer you to the regulation. The High Izbo, when it comes to penalties, is not that the Personal Data Protection Office, and already of course the inspector, the employee who will carry out the checks, will decide whether or not to impose such a penalty. The provisions of the Regulation lay down very strict conditions for the imposition of a financial penalty. There are 11 conditions that need to be taken into account when deciding whether or not we impose a financial penalty, an administrative penalty, a monetary penalty. Another thing is whether we put it on, and another thing is how high it is. Here again this mythical and actually huge money... I mean, not mythical, because they are, that top limit of 20 million euros. But what I want to say is that this is not true because the regulation says: up to EUR 20 million or 4% global annual turnover, which can be a multiple of EUR 20 million. And, of course, if we take into account the title of the regulation itself, we will answer the question of what is going on. This isn't about punishment at all. On the one hand, the regulation is intended to protect the personal data of European Union citizens, and on the other hand it was designed to facilitate the free movement of data, because, as you have noticed, data is now based on entire sectors of the economy. So, of course, these two values need to be balanced, and this is certainly difficult, while no one, the legislator, the designer of these European rules, cared about either blocking data flows or punishing data processing. Given the ease of using modern technologies, ease, availability, cheapness, when it comes to personal data, the fact that they can be exchanged quickly, combined, compiled - in fact, this modernity makes data, which are goods, a very valuable commodity. Therefore, citizens must be protected and entrepreneurs must be helped to build citizens' confidence in the activities they carry out when processing data. And we are still talking about this - that what is crucial is building trust among entrepreneurs in data processing processes. If we look at a personal data protection system not as something that appeared in 2016 or 2018 but as something that has been functioning in the Polish system since the 20s... It's not true, either, that suddenly there's been responsibilities and burdens that we haven't known in the last 20 years. In fact, if we looked at the regulation, it would turn out that most of these obligations functioned in the Polish legal order for 20 years. The question is how they were respected. So there's one more thing about it. Namely, a truly general data protection officer, especially for the last two years, has worked very hard to raise the level of knowledge and awareness as regards the protection of personal data. I'll just say, for example. We worked with information security administrators - 26 thousand. registered security administrators - we organized sector training, not to tell you what personal data is, because it's already in the past, we should all know by now. We talked to the inspectors, i.e. the administrators of information security yet, from particular sectors, to ask what problems they have, what solutions they have, how we can help them, because these are the people who, on the so-called. The first line of the front line will be most supportive and helpful to administrators. We organized workshops, just to remind you of the webinars that we organized, for example. with the IAB, we organised consultations on the guidelines of the Article Working Party. 29. As a former GIODO, I can boast that the comments of Polish entrepreneurs, citizens, those who wanted to take part in the consultation were taken into account by the working group. It is a great satisfaction to me that we were the ones who had an impact on how we interpret the provisions of the regulation. We've developed a strategy. For the last two years, we've been saying there won't be a transition period. This is the transitional period and it is necessary to prepare for the application of the Regulation. How do I assess the preparation for new responsibilities? The clear answer to this question is difficult because the state of preparation for compliance with the obligations arising from the Regulation is very different. I have to appeal to those 20 years again. High Izbo! In fact, this regulation imposes few new obligations on administrators. It forces another way of looking at the protection of personal data. I keep saying that if we look at the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data in companies as a system that needs to be sewn into the management of the company... Putting these processes in place at the beginning, putting personal data protection processes in a proper manner will make it easier for businesses to function and not so much protect them from penalties - because, as I say, we might not talk about penalties at all if this system were correct - how much it will protect them from liability to persons whose data are processed. Those who have been aware of the need to protect personal data for the last 20 years or throughout their operation, have observed the existing provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, are, I think, really well-informed and quite the contrary: they are not even so afraid as they are glad that they finally gave up very bureaucratic solutions - they had to have a password, encrypted computer or changed the password of access - for solutions that meet their needs. Administrators know very well what data they process, what risks are associated with their data processing and, in the case of these risks, they are very capable of introducing those safeguards that are required. On the other hand, those who have just learned that there is a GDPR and that they have some mythical responsibilities, are in a more difficult situation. We are absolutely aware that the market reacted very much to the regulation, using ignorance and lack of awareness of administrators and entrepreneurs. We try to verify this as much as we can, as we can, and try to verify it first and foremost by stressing all the time that this is not a revolution. This is not a revolution. Finally, the question of the Member with regard to those cases and proceedings conducted by the General Inspector, which were initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Law. Art. 160 of the new Act of 10 May: Proceedings referred to in paragraph 1. 1 - those initiated and not completed - are carried out on the basis of a law repealed by Article. 175. So the legislator tells us to proceed on the basis of a non-binding law. This is the moment, I think, this is also the place where I would like to call on you to lean on these rules and just make adjustments and changes as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u260	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights requests the adoption of reports on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer in 2016 and 2017 contained in prints 2170 and 2416. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 5 June this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. And please take the floor of Mr Simon Giżyński from the Law and Justice Club. There isn't. In that case, I would very much like to ask Mr Dariusz Fark, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In a multi-section statement about Polish heroes rooted in the culture of the village, and leading the country towards freedom, I write a short voice about the mothers of the great Poles. The statements of this series are prepared together with the staff of my parliamentary office. On the 26th of May we all, regardless of age, direct our thoughts and hearts toward our mothers. Each of us can say the same thing, we owe it all to them because they gave us life, raised us as they could, and watched that the world should not take away from us what cannot be recovered. However, it is harder to talk about all mothers, even harder to talk about yours, because you want it all to yourself, so I will mention those rural mothers who gave the world their sons, exceptional, great, famous. Each of them loved her son and protected him in times of danger with prayer. This is what the noblewoman Mickiewiczov did when her Adasia suffered a fatal illness - she offered it to the Blessed Virgin. Kasprowiczov's housewife, who died of pneumonia, was similarly preserved. Valentine, a humble heavenly official, but the result was the same. Loving mothers saved their sons and gave the nation first-sized poets. Like the noblewoman from the manor house in Zaosiu, the housewife in the peasant hut first gave the child the elementaryr and slept with her son in the evenings to learn to read. She knew that she would thus open the gate to the world of knowledge, wisdom, and beauty to the future mighty man of the word. Kasprowiczowa could not give her son what she had given Mickiewiczov to Adam before, but, as he said, he owed her everything. She told him to listen to the sounds of a dick that came from afar, telling him about water birds floating over the swamps that surrounded Gopło at that time. She was talking about the lake. She gave him a rich treasure of peasant imagination and great kindness of heart. When he takes him by the hand and leads him to the church, he will establish faith in him forever, which no philosophies will be able to overthrow. Years later he will say: if he has done well in his life, the mothers in this merit, she has taught him principles which he has not broken, so as not to grieve the one whom he loves above all else. This dearest mother of Kasprowicz in the world is like her motherly wisdom and modesty from our time - the mother of Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. George Popieluszko. Her humility, modesty, and unique dignity are qualities that cannot be overlooked. They were seen in every word, gesture, even silence. And what like the one standing under the cross of the son, the one who hid from the death ball of the great son of this land--John Paul II. This mother is Mrs Fatima and Jasna Góra, our Queen, because on her temples shines a Polish crown. It also belongs to her on Mother's Day a special homage, and every 13th of May for this saved life we thank her with all the words taken out of our prayers, from the litany, from our daily conversations. How not to mention on Mother's Day with respect for hundreds of thousands of mothers of cursed soldiers, about whom today we learn how steadfast and determined they were in the fight for independence of our homeland, Poland. How can we thank our mothers today for being right - ordinary and unusual? How do we talk about them today? Perhaps just as the great creator of independent Poland, Józef Piłsudski, wrote about his mother, I quote: "My mother hid me for the role that I played. When I'm in a mess with myself, when everyone's against me, when there's a storm of charges all around me, then I ask myself how my mother would have me do it in this case, and I do what I think is probably her opinion, her will, no longer looking at anything. When I go, lay my heart at my mother's feet among the soldiers' graves on Ross. You'll know them by the fruits... [[♪ The bell ♪]] - we can read in the Book of Life. Yes, beautiful fruits produce trees that are rooted in faith and love for their homeland, because they are also our mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u262	Thank you, sir. I would like to make a statement to Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On June 6, the Doll and Actor Theatre in Łomża, together with the city itself celebrating the anniversary 600 years of granting city rights, will host the XXXI edition of the International Theatre Festival. It is one of the most important cultural events in the region, with a well-established position and reputation among theatre groups around the world. It is one of the oldest theatre festivals in Poland and is one of the most prestigious in Central Europe. During the 30th edition of the festival more than 350 theatres from 50 countries took part - from Japan and New Zealand to Argentina and the United States. It is a place to spread new trends in theatre and exchange experiences. The suitcase and the Łomża theatre are the pride of the city. The marketing importance of the festival for Łomża and the region cannot be overestimated. Visitors of the festival have the opportunity to get to know the tourist qualities of Podlasie, the excellent regional cuisine and the warmth of the residents. This is one of the added value of the festival, which is already gaining interest and will also bring many benefits to residents and local entrepreneurs in the future. Another, in my opinion, equally important, is the impact of the festival in terms of enriching humanistic and cultural values. For 4 days, viewers can interact with the theatre, increasing their sensitivity, opening their horizons and developing spiritually. I would like to thank Director Jarosław Antonik and all the theater staff for their work in the organisation of the festival. Once again, I congratulate the Doll Theatre and the Actor on the title of the Podlaskie Mark of the Year in the category of culture. The award confirms the reputation enjoyed by the Łomża theatre. Mr Łomża Mariusz Chrzanowski thank you for your support and assistance to the organisers. I send my words of gratitude to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and to the authorities of the Podlaskie Voivodeship for financial support and for taking up the festival with patronage, as well as to sponsors, thanks to which another, richer edition of the festival is possible. All directors, actors, stage designers, musicians thank you so much for coming to Łomża. I wish you all to leave Łomża richer with unforgettable impressions and to return to us with pleasure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u264	Thank you. I would like to make a statement by Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members and Dear Members, Listeners! I am addressing you because of the need to continue the reflection that he has liberated by his speech, Bishop. Grzegorz Ryś during the Sunday Thanksgiving Mass of the nation for the independence of the homeland in its century on 3 June this year. in the Temple of Divine Providence in Warsaw. I would like to say first of all that very often to us today, it seems that historical events are usually behind us, that this important story is going somewhere, not at hand. Consider that what happened on June 3rd in the Temple of Divine Providence has a historical dimension. For various reasons I would like to ask you to google, look at the archives of Polish Television or other TV channels and see this event. I do this reflection so that in a humbug of various information that floods us every day, you can see what is really worth seeing. In order to complete the picture of this celebration, it is necessary to understand its pronunciation, a moment of reflection on God's word, which was done by Bishop Grzegorz Ryś of Łódź. I leave to you a self-reading of his homily, but I have in me a need to draw attention to a few threads which in the homily of the inspired preacher sounded sufficiently strong and embraced us as members of the same community of the nation and heirs of the achievements of noble ancestors to analyze them. In the Bishop's speech, when analyzing them in parallel to the evangelization context, the essential elements of independence were outlined, in the sense of experiencing and experiencing freedom, both in an individual and in a community perspective. It is worth noting that freedom begins in ourselves, it is our self-care, our taking care of it in our own conscience, our actions, our belief that it is a value that, in a personal sense, is a gift and a task worth pursuing. Of course, not everyone's appetite is the same, not everyone experiences longing for it or is willing to put other good things on its altar. Nevertheless, it is within me that is the most red-headed source of it, and either it pulsates, giving all of me dynamics, or is in decline, has not been sufficiently educated or is buried in the ruins of laziness, conformism, opportunism, preoccupation. It is in the words of the preacher that we find such reflection, a quote: Escape from freedom is also escape from what is the deepest conviction of Christianity that man is greater than the conditions in which he lives. Faith in freedom is belief in a man who is greater than all conditions that are supposed to be necessary, he added. How can we deal with this good reflection? What can we do to be truly free? Is the statement: obeying the Lord God and your conscience sufficient or necessary? How can we at least beat it into concrete terms in our personal attitudes? Oh, I'm not gonna be absolutely, even though it's so much easier, walking into a stranger's backyard, and there he's smart about how you're gonna be really free. I'm gonna focus on my, uh, your, uh, parliamentary freedom. You know, fellow Members of Parliament that this is a desirable and constantly threatened state for us. I will not play with the exchange of these threats and will not idealize that it is so with everyone else, but not with me, because only I am relentless and transparent. It's so rare. So if I have a specific task to do for the independent, it may be worthwhile to resurrect myself or constantly be vigilant, not to embezzle the highest possible values of freedom, right here and now, in the role that has come to us, a Member of the Lightest Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u266	Thank you. I would like to make a statement by Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Seymour! Quote from the letter of the publisher of the Communist Manifesto to Charles Marks: Dear and Dear Mr Marks! Three dates have passed for your work to be printed by the Communist Manifesto. If you cross the fourth deadline, I'll have to give the subject to another author, end of quote. I therefore appeal to the leaders and leaders of the total opposition as spiritual heirs of Charles Marks and sailors of Aurora: For the sake of all humanity, cross and fail all possible dates of your legislative initiatives and other political projects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-05-sejm-63-1.u268	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 6 June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 04]]
