ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call Members Arkadiusz Myrch, Luke Schreiber, Wojciech the King and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members of Arkadiusz Myrch and Wojciech the King will be in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Łukasz Schreiber and Wojciech Król. Mr. Secretary has already taken his place. I therefore ask your secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 14, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: construction of the expressway S-12 - hour 10, - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 10.30, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, - on the amendment of the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in the years 2017-2020. The reports shall be printers 3020 and 3022 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I don't hear any objections. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question may not last more than 2 minutes, and that the answer may not last longer than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club. The question will be on the government's efforts to assist the local government in carrying out its tasks in helping older people. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, There are changes in the demographic structure characteristic of European countries in Poland. In 2035, the share of people of post-production age will increase to almost 27%. Many of these people are single-person households. After 2030, even more than 50% of farms are expected to be run by people over 65 years of age. The situation is further aggravated by the low number of birthdays, which is observed in Western countries, but still in Poland. Social assistance, helping older people is mainly a task of self-government. But despite local authorities' efforts to help older people, especially the elderly, with low incomes, it still seems insufficient, still too small. Some municipalities do not carry out their own tasks at all, e.g. care services. I know municipalities that do not respond to requests at all so that no decision can be made so that this decision cannot be appealed against. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the question of what the government is doing to support the local government in carrying out its own tasks in helping older people. I know about the programmes that the current government has already implemented, but I would also like to ask for information on what aid proposals for local governments are still planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u5	Thank you very much, Member. And I would like your answer, Minister Elizabeth Bojanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Government administration supports the activity of local governments through the implementation of programs, government or ministry, but also through grants to accomplish the tasks of self-governments. The most important programmes that support local authorities in the implementation of their tasks include, above all: the Senior+ programme, the 75+ programme or the multi-annual government programme, meals at school and at home, but also the Operational Programme, Food Aid and the Lifetime Programme. And now a few details. I'm gonna start with the Senior+ program. It is a program addressed to the elderly, who are still reasonably efficient, who want to be active and can leave the house. Under this programme, both municipalities and powiats receive support for the creation and maintenance of daily residence facilities for the elderly. It's about the daily residence homes and the senior+ clubs. Under this programme, local authorities in open competition can apply for funding, first, for the opening or equipment of a facility of 300 thousand. PLN in the case of a daily residence home, and in the case of a club - 150 thousand. PLN, second, to ensure the operation of existing facilities up to PLN 300 per month per person in the daily residence home and up to PLN 200 per person in the club. What do these facilities offer? Above all, these facilities offer older people, especially lonely ones, a broad catalogue of services in the field of social activation, education, sports, artistic, cultural or educational activities, but above all rehabilitation and social services, including a warm meal, as well as occupational therapy. These institutions undertake activities which aim at broadly understood activation and intergenerational integration, as regular meetings with children from kindergartens, schoolchildren or seniors from other institutions or non-governmental organisations are organised in these institutions. In total, 240 senior houses and clubs were in operation in Poland at the end of 2017, offering 6265, while in 2018 we allocated PLN 80 million. In addition, in 2018 more than 300 new facilities with more than 8200 sites are planned to be created, i.e. there is a strong increase in the number of these facilities. In the coming days there will be a call for proposals for next year. We also have a planned amount of PLN 80 million, which is why we encourage local authorities to submit proposals today. The second programme, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, which supports the elderly, the lonely, the needy and who supports local governments in carrying out their own task, is the 75+-care programme. I would like to say that in preparing for this programme, we have examined that in 2017 430 local governments did not carry out their own responsibility, namely the provision of caring services and specialist care services. In May 2018, 376 municipalities still did not carry out this task, so we launched this programme, directing it to people over 75 years of age. In 2018, the programme included single persons, in 2019 it will cover any person over 75 years of age who requires care services or specialized care services in their place of residence. In the first half of 2018, 384 municipalities joined the programme. Another programme, which I will mention, whose implementation we finance to local governments, is mainly a meal at school and at home. For this program we have the amount of PLN 550 million allocated. This programme has been under way for many years, but the structure of those who benefit from this programme is changing: the number of children and families is falling and the number of adults is increasing. In 2017, over 654 thousand benefited from this scheme. adults. In this new edition, actually in the new programme since 2019 we have directly identified a module addressed to adults who meet one of the conditions set out in the Social Assistance Act and meet the income criterion of 150% the criterion of the Social Assistance Act. Another programme, which we co-finance to local governments and which they use, among others. Older people are the Operational Programme of food aid, which is co-financed by the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. Under this scheme, food aid is granted on the basis of an income criterion and here we have introduced a criterion of 200% from the Social Assistance Act so that pensioners can be in this programme as much as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to mention, by not specifically discussing this, that we also have a program for life, as well as protected housing, and we also finance the implementation of the tasks of our own local authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u7	Thank you. Stay on the stand. The additional question will be asked by Marek Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the best guarantee of stable care for the elderly is their life and functioning in multigenerational families, but today's lifestyle and development of civilizations do not promote the creation of such families, so I think it is very good that the state takes over these tasks by systematically increasing resources for this purpose. I would like to ask whether, following the increase of resources, as we have heard, many senior activation programmes of local governments are equally committed to this task, which, as we know, lies within their competence and is their own task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u9	Minister! I want to ask you a question. It's the same context. It's what my colleague said. We hear that 550 million PLN is spent on food alone, on one programme. This is over PLN 0.5 billion. What is the interest of local governments? Is that money enough? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the contrary, should local governments be encouraged to help older people and use this government money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u10	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u11	Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is very diverse. Indeed, as the Member has said, we are seeing a growing ageing population. In 2050, if our forecasts do not change, people over the age of 60 will be over 40%, so... The document adopted by the government at the end of October is social policy towards the elderly by 2030. Security. Participation. Solidarity, which sets out the tasks of both government and self-government in the field of social policy aimed at the elderly. On the other hand, when it comes to self-governments and the involvement of local authorities, the situation is very diverse, because when it comes to the feeding programme today, food at school and at home was almost 100%. Local authorities, few local authorities were not involved in the implementation of this programme. But for example. As I was saying about the 75+. Care programme, in 2017, it did not carry out its own mandatory task for older people, those in need and the weakest 430 local governments, and in May 2018 almost 380 local governments. We monitor this situation all the time, we control it through the voivodships, so that local governments can carry out this task. However, it should also be mentioned that the State is directing resources in relation to the tasks of its own self-government, among others. in the field of fixed allowances. This is a compulsory task of local governments, and the state finances in the form of a sum of 1 049 196 thousand, i.e. a grant for the task of own, compulsory, but also for benefits and assistance, as well as for pension and pension contributions, I mean periodic benefits. And this is a subsidy of almost 690 thousand. zł. It's all mandatory. It should also not be forgotten about social assistance homes and people placed in social assistance homes before 2004, where the State also finances these tasks. Since this year 100% that is the average amount of the voivodship in a given social assistance home, in that amount we finance these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u12	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question that Members from the Civic Platform will ask about pathology in the Podlaskie Police. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will answer Mr Paweł Majewski. She begins with a question from Mrs Bożena Kamińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Director! I am very disappointed that on such an important issue that we want to address when it comes to applications from all over Poland... It started with Suwałk, then former Białystok, Zambrów, Łomża, Siemiatycze, Grajewo, Sejny, and now we also have Tatras, Zakopane, Zachodniopomorskie voivodeship, Warmia-Mazurskie and other voivodships from which complaints come to us, and these are very serious complaints about how urban and voivodship police commands work in our country. These are dozens of letters I receive with information. And it's not anonymous anymore, Minister. They're not anonymous anymore. Here are the people who write with a name, a phone and want to talk about the bad state of things that happen there. Once again from this place, I would like to say that the officers are not concerned with the current increases, Mr. Director, but with normality, decency, respect, and as regards the shift and duty towards the country that they do well... And they are fed with contempt, despicableness, two-facedness, lying and threats. How long will this situation continue in the police force in our country? And how long will that permit be? I have two questions. Is it true that police officers in Suwałki, in Łomża, were forced to dress up as state security officers, how many times and during what events? And what you have done as a ministry with a letter from officers from Zakopane dated 19 June 2017, who ask Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński for help and intervention, because there is a passiveness of superiors and they are allowed to continue to violate the law in this unit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which leads to irreversible moral, health and mental losses of many police officers of the Zakopane unit. What have you done about it? What kind of help did you give, and what answer did you give? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u14	Thank you. And I ask Minister Paweł Majewski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question asked by Mrs Kopacz, two questions in this emotional speech, I would like to inform you that it is true that the officers performed in civilian clothes during the visits of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, during the visits of President Bronisław Komorowski, this practice is not only in the Podlasie Police Department for a long time. [[Only in cases like this.]] I will go to answer your question in a moment. As for the second question you formulated from the speaker, it was not in the document, in the current questions. Of course, the MSWiA will refer to the matter put forward by the Member. [[You're welcome in writing.]] Of course. High Izbo! The Commissioner referred to the supposedly appalling cases concerning the operation of the Polish Police, she claims, throughout Poland. Maybe I'll start by quoting the results of a study carried out by the Social Opinion Research Centre in April 2018. When it comes to security and crime, 86% Poles believe that Poland is a country where people live safely. Even more people, because 93% The residents say that the neighborhood, the neighborhood or the village where they live are safe. What is particularly important, almost 3/4 Poles positively assess police activity. So that the feelings that you share with us are not widely shared by Poles. As far as security is concerned, there is a clear downward trend in the number of crimes detected by the police. The Podlaskie Voivodeship, which we are most concerned with here, is one of the safest in Poland. The total number of crimes detected by the police per 100 000. The population in this voivodship is much lower than the number recorded throughout Poland. Crime detection in the Podlasie garrison has increased to 75% at the end of 2017 In 2015 it was 66% , and the number of crimes found in the seven categories of crimes most annoying to citizens, among others. theft, robbery, dropped from over 6400 in 2015 to over 5100 in 2017. 1277 crimes have been reported less. Detectability in these categories increased from 33% in 2015 to 41% in 2017 [[But this is a report.]] [[That's not the answer to the questions asked, Mr. Director. We don't want to hear statistics. I didn't ask that. I know these statistics.]] [[...answer to the question, and you came here with some paper, Minister. How did you know the question would be if you were prepared for this before?]] Mr President, allow me to move on to the answer to the question. [[But this is a paper, not an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u16	Please, sir... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: The honourable Member was here to talk about the common sense of danger, the alleged degrengolad in the Polish police. [[I didn't use that phrase.]] I think the High Chamber, as well as all those listening to the deliberations, have the right to know what the truth is and to make an opinion of themselves. It is clear that the decline in the threat of crime goes hand in hand with a high sense of security for Poles. As regards the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, the current and previous management of the Ministry of Home Affairs in this term of office of the Sejm, I would like to remind you that the jobs previously wound up by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL coalition are being re-established. Between 2008 and 2015, the government, which you supported at the time, closed more than 330 jobs in the Podlaskie Voivodeship. Between 2016 and 2018, 95 jobs were restored. [[And how many vacancies are there? Tell me right away.]] Dear Member, I would prefer to ask you to continue. [[Answer the questions.]] On the other hand, if you are asking about the number of vacancies, this number of vacancies is, as you know, linked to the improving situation on the labour market. Unemployment has also fallen during the rule of law and justice. [[6,000. At least.]] Both now and during the rule of the Civic Platform, these vacancies in the Police occur and occur. This growing number of vacancies is linked to an increasingly better situation on the labour market. [[How many were fired?]] I would just like to remind you that unemployment during the rule of law and justice has fallen significantly compared to what it was in autumn 2015 when the previous coalition gave up governments. If you don't mind, I'll continue to answer the question. I would just like to say further, referring to the issue raised in the question raised by the honourable Member as regards the personal affairs of the officers, including the appointment and dismissal, appointments - it is the chiefs of the police units who are entitled to one-sided and sovereignly shaping staff policy in the subordinate police units. With regard to the personal decisions taken regarding appointments to all posts, not only to the chiefs or their deputies, as described in the letter from the Member State, it should be pointed out that they were autonomously taken by the competent local commanders, the place or district, the police. Every time the appointment and cancellations were decided by the substantive and formal considerations relating to the requirements relating to the service's internship and the training of the officer needed to take up a specific post. I just want to say that right now, regarding the possible involvement of police officers in protective measures against the Secretary of State. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Jarosław Zieliński's MSWA is controlled by the Police Headquarters. A similar check relates to the complaint raised in the media regarding the alleged 24-hour security of his property. I would like to explain that according to the position of the Regional Police Commissioner in Bialystok in the Podlasie garrison, the vow of newly accepted police officers, as a rule, takes place in police facilities, mainly in the police prevention department. This has never happened in any school, as it is raised in the letter from your Members. Thank you very much. [[We'll show you this picture.]] Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What's going on here? Where's Minister Zieliński? We didn't come here to ask questions to his colleague on government benches, we just came to ask questions to Minister Zieliński, because this is about the pathology that Minister Zieliński in the Police is calling, not about the Police per se. The police are not guilty here, but Minister Zieliński - through his way of action - and you have not referred in any way to any question asked by Mrs Kaminska. In no way, to any question, to any pathology that he committed and forced on police officers Minister Zieliński. I have a question. Minister Zieliński recently wrote: Part of the media and politicians of the opposition in retaliation for violating the interests of influential groups and people are trying to ridicule me by repeating the stories that have been sucked out of their fingers about me. I'm the one who's asking, "How are we gonna embarrass him? What kind of media are they? Maybe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the media that isn't being paid by your colleagues, Mr. Bierecki? How do you answer that question? You're not Minister of Zielinski unless I'm mistaken here. How do you answer these questions? [[Applause]] [[In writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u18	I'm asking you to answer me. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There won't be time. There's no time. I'm sorry. Your friend at the club used all the time and even more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My presence here is related to the decision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. As you have already informed the Minister, there is an inspection of the Police Headquarters on the matters described by your Members. [[You control yourselves.]] These matters will be clarified. I would just like to say that when it comes to the issues of the operation of the Polish Police and its functioning, it can best be borne out by the fact that the last Independence March, where the opposition Members also raised allegations that it would be dangerous, that there would be a situation that would be... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You say no about it.]] ...promote danger for citizens. This march, like others during the rule of law and justice, went safely, which cannot be said about the situation in the times of the Platform and the PSL. [[It's a psychic.]] [[But that's not the question.]] [[Take a stand on what's going on at the station, not on the street.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cimoszewicz did not ask any additional question, he asked only a question concerning the presence of the Minister... [[I'll correct it, Marshal. I'll straighten it out.]] Your Marshal, I'm very sorry, but why can't I answer the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u20	Minister, Members are asking you to answer their questions - not to talk about statistics, but to answer questions about the personal situation in the police, about police officers. Hence their reaction - they do not want to hear information about statistics on crime and its reduction. Do you have anything else to add? Because, therefore, I will not interfere with the reaction of Members who want answers. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marshal!]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: Your Marshal, Mr... Minister, do you want to answer again, or are we finishing this part in connection with your speech? If you'd like, go ahead. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: Your Marshal, I answered Mr Cimoszewicz's question about Mr Zieliński's presence. I didn't register another question, so I wanted to thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. And that is true: the Minister may choose his representative to answer. This is the decision of the minister to whom the question has been addressed. And now we are approaching the next question that Mr Paweł Skutecki from the Kukiz club will ask15. This will be a question about granting a passport and giving safe shelter to Pakistani Christian Asi Bibi and her family, addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. He will reply under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Maciej Lang. He will ask Mr Paweł Skutecki a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about Pakistani Christian Asi Bibi. On 14 June 2009, she drank water from a well used by Muslim women, working in the field. After the fight, she was beaten, arrested, accused of blasphemy and sentenced to death by hanging. The men defending her were killed under strange circumstances by unknown perpetrators. That's how he died, among other things. one of the ministers in Pakistan. He asked for mercy for her, among others. Pope Benedict. Under pressure from the international community, including nearly 100,000. The Poles who signed the appeal, Asia Bibi was acquitted and left her cell two weeks ago, exactly 15 days ago. I remind you that all these years she's been held in a cell without access to daylight, no window, no water, no toilet. She survived. If she doesn't leave Pakistan, she and her entire family are likely to die in cruel self-esteem after a longer or shorter period of hiding from the crowd. Minister, Poland has been a world asylum for centuries for those who have sought salvation from death for their faith, regardless of whether they were Jews, Protestants or Muslims. In the middle of the 16th century, the papal nuncio wrote that anyone, whether for faults or for the harmful religions of thinking from his homeland was banished, fled to Poland as to a certain refuge. Is the Polish government considering helping Asi Bibi, her husband and their five children? Will the Prime Minister have a conscience to refuse if Asi Bibi and her family formally ask the Polish government to enter and ensure security in the territory of the Republic of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, this is really a question of the honor of Poland and the honor of the free world.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u22	Thank you. And please respond to Mr Maciej Lang's Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation of Asi Bibi has long been the subject of attention and interest of both the Polish authorities and other Member States of the European Union. This matter has recently been the subject of my discussion with the Pakistani ambassador in Poland, because this issue remains within the jurisdiction of the Pakistani judicial authorities. Nor have we so far noted as a country any formal proposal on this matter, my position on behalf of the government would be this It's unobtrusive. On the other hand, it should be noted that, in view of the good of the case, which concerns not only the security of Asia Bibi itself and members of her family, but also other persons, including citizens of European countries currently in Pakistan, including Polish citizens, it is not advisable to discuss this issue in a public forum, particularly if it is to be accompanied by excessive media publicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u24	Would you like to ask an additional question? Thank you, then, Minister. We move on to the next question, which is asked by Members of the club Moderna, on changes in regulations introduced by the Ministry of Finance and the Polish Parliament concerning banking supervision and new regulations covering the functioning of financial institutions in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Nowak. The first question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In 2017, the Council The Ministry of Finance issued a regulation introducing new capital requirements for banks that hold foreign exchange loans. A 150% weight has been introduced in this Regulation . As a result, some banks suddenly ceased to meet capital requirements - not because their internal policy, which was bad and led to the loss of capital, did not because they did something wrong, but because the state simply changed the rules of the game overnight. The Ministry's benchmark is the highest possible indicator, which is generally not found in other countries of the European Union, where the average weight is at 35%/60%. According to Mr Czarnecki's attorney, who is today the chief prosecutor in the KNF case, this change was the most severe for Getin Noble Bank, which was allegedly clear from the calculations carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission. And questions, Minister. What led the Ministry of Finance to make such changes? Has it actually been done with regard to this Regulation a fair analysis, an assessment of the impact of the regulation and what was the result? Why did the Ministry decide to move, which put some banks in difficulty and this difficult situation is, of course, the need to recapitalisation in a short time, in some cases quite large amounts, reaching up to PLN 1 billion? When these activities are analysed, it appears that the Ministry of Finance [[♪ The bell ♪]] it has quite consciously put some banks in a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u26	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u27	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards this regulation, raising the risk weight to 150% , please note that firstly, this is in line with European legislation, i.e. in every European country it is possible To do this. Secondly, please note that it was from the Ministry of Finance to follow the recommendations of the Financial Stability Committee. This recommendation was addressed within the Financial Stability Committee, which includes four institutions: the National Bank of Poland, the Ministry of Finance, the Bank Guarantee Fund and the Commission for Financial Supervision, chaired by the President of the NBP, because it was within the Financial Stability Committee with the letter It is also a body required by the European rules and with the letter "M" it meets once a quarter, as far as I know, these are regular meetings. This initiative was supported by the so-called problem. franc credits - in quotes, because they can be called differently - have appeared for a long time. I remember that already at the beginning of 2015 there was also a legislative initiative in the Sejm trying to solve this problem. We know what the consequences or risks were, whether the potential effects of the conversion of these loans related to this proposal in 2015 were, because in the committee, among others, I remember President Jakubiak showed the consequences and consequences that might be for the financial sector. We know that this problem in the banking sector all the time... It is a problem or a question of whether these assets are and potential risks associated with them. As part of the Financial Stability Committee, we discussed how to address or minimise these risks in the banking sector, because they are still risks from the point of view of the stability of the financial sector. Also, the banking sector led by the Polish Bank Association has prepared a proposal, I do not remember what it was called, a package, I do not remember how many of these proposals were about addressing and restructuring loans so called. francs. Such activities have also been discussed within the Financial Stability Committee. And one of the instruments that would encourage banks to meet, to invite customers who have currency loans, to make it more attractive from the point of view of the banks finally getting interested in this problem... They were interested, but so that they had an instrument showing: start talking to customers and offer them more attractive conversion proposals, the risk weight has been increased in line with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Committee, as European law allows. In addition, please note that it was not a change from day to day, there was quite a long vacathio legis. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Six months.]] Over six months. This subject, on the other hand, has been known for a long time. Secondly, please note, this covers all banks, all banks, so if any of them are unable to meet the requirements... Whenever a bank licence is obtained, the owner of the bank or the main investor of the bank gives a commitment to cover the recovery of capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u28	Thank you. Stay here, Minister, or the Member will ask a question from the jury. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: I'm sorry. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will ask them. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here I have some doubts, because you have set this level at 150% That's the maximum level. For all this, I have the impression that you have done this because you have failed to deal with the electoral promise that you will take care of the franchise case, and at the moment the entire burden of responsibility for what is happening in the banking system because of the franchise loans has been transferred to the banks. But I have one more question. Can the changes made at the last minute, which are not in line with the rules of legislation, be identified by the rapid path of expropriation of banks? Because I would like to remind you of the record that if the amount of the bank's own funds were to be reduced or, which is already crazy, the risk of reducing that amount could be taken over by such a bank. I have a question, Minister, who decides if there is a danger. What are the criteria that cause this? This is the decision of an official who at some point [[♪ The bell ♪]] it will decide that there has been a danger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u30	Of course, we are asking, Minister, for an amendment which has been tabled both to the BFG Act and to the KNF Act, and for this regulation, which has been included in this amendment on the basis of an administrative decision of the KNF.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u31	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u32	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Who decides? The Commission for Financial Supervision shall decide. It's an organ, it's not an official. This is the body in which eight representatives are present. The Financial Supervision Committee shall be composed of eight members. In the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, which was adopted in 2016 as an implementation of the Resolution Directive, Article. 101 states: the Commission for Financial Supervision shall immediately inform the Fund - as assumed by the Bank Guarantee Fund - about, point 1, the risk of bankruptcy, then there is point 2 and subsequent. What do you mean, "risk of bankruptcy"? In the mouth. 3 is written: An entity shall be deemed to be in default in the event of one or more of the following circumstances. And that's where the four circumstances are listed. So there are indications in the 2016 Act... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You do not answer the question.]] ...when such information can be sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u33	Thank you very much. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mrs Marshal, I wanted to submit...]] Madam President, I have not given you the floor, so please allow me to finish. The fact that you're accusing the Minister of not answering your question is no reason to correct it. Therefore, I do not give the floor. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be about hospital emergency services and is addressed... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: He did not understand our question.]] ...to the Minister of Health, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer. She will be the first to ask the question of Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u34	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Appreciating the enormous progress made in terms of equipment and technology, as well as the qualifications of members of medical rescue teams, I would like to draw attention to the second very important element, the part of the rescue system, namely hospital rescue units. I ask the Minister whether the Ministry is analysing the burden of providing services in the SOR, whether the Ministry is analysing the waiting time for admission in these departments and what action the Minister of Health may take to shorten the waiting time. Patients are brought to the S.R.A. by medical emergency teams. Some patients also arrive in their own transport. Is the Ministry aware that hospitals with SORs are hospitalized many times more patients in life-threatening conditions? Patients at risk of life with multiple organ injuries or multi-morbidity must be precisely diagnosed and treated with costly lifesaving therapy and then directed to further treatment in hospital wards. Is the Ministry aware that a patient who is hit by a life-threatening SOR is a much more expensive patient? Therefore, hospitals without SOR do not want to receive these patients and the whole burden must be taken over by hospitals with SOR, and this patient is simply less economical. Does the Ministry see the possibility of using some mechanism, an indicator that will take into account costs of diagnosis and treatment in acute mode? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u35	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u36	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1999 very important changes were made to the medical rescue system. In principle, a medical rescue system was created, which until then did not function properly in Poland. The cell of this system was intended to be an efficient system for receiving calls, i.e. the creation of medical dispatchers, which operated on the basis of certain procedures and standards. Other links were medical rescue team dispatchers, ground medical rescue teams, as well as flight rescue units. Another element of this efficient medical rescue system, which is intended to work in a life-threatening state, was the creation of hospital emergency units. In addition to hospital emergency services, trauma centers, adult trauma centers, trauma centres for children as well as specialist hospitals were created that were only involved in saving lives in the state of danger. That was the idea of medical rescue. In view of the above, a number of amendments have been made to prepare these entities for the statutory function. Hospital emergency services were provided, standards were established in these departments, including: on the employment of professionals as well as the procedures for dealing with them. So that this rescue system is dedicated to patients in a life-threatening state. The idea was for patients who are in this situation to go to these specialized centres and not to hospitals that are not prepared for it. The National Health Fund therefore contracts separate hospital emergency services, offering significantly higher rates, as well as emergency rooms that are in hospitals that are generally geared towards receiving scheduled patients. The differences in the financing of hospital emergency and emergency rooms are definitely large. We are, of course, looking at how hospital emergency services are financed on an ongoing basis, and on a national scale this is presented in various ways, but the average daily lump sum for daily readiness at national level is over 17 000. PLN, while in 2015 it was around 15 thousand. zł. This is an obvious increase, but this is the average. We have rescue teams that are financed over 38,000. zł. These are specialized units that actually take a large number of patients in life-threatening situations and carry out specialized procedures, rescue units that are funded on a scale of 7, 8 or 9 thousand. As far as the financing of reception rooms is concerned, on average in the country it amounts to about PLN 3300. There are also hospitals that have a reception room in their structure - there is much lower funding - and hospitals that have a much higher daily lump sum. As regards the financing of hospital emergency services, it is based on the so-called. the structure and function indicators. The amount of the contract depends on the number and condition of patients who are admitted to the hospital emergency department. This function indicator is valued in the form of a specific value per point. A few years ago it was 30 PLN, right now it is the amount of 52 PLN per point. So this is the system of financing these benefits. As regards the reception of patients in hospital emergency and emergency rooms, data from 2018 indicate that we adopted in emergency rooms in the first half of 2018. 1,590 480 people, and in the SORs, hospital emergency services, at the same time there were 2 320 397 people admitted, or twice as many. The network of hospital emergency services is defined in the voivodship plans, where each of the voivodships indicates where the hospital is to be a hospital emergency unit. Of course, the hospital must comply with certain standards laid down by law in order to be able to apply for such a branch and for funding. As you can see, the Minister of Health is constantly monitoring the situation. Of course, there are signals to us, as the Commissioner says, that there are very many patients in hospital emergency services in some hospitals, especially those who would not necessarily have to be in this ward. We're monitoring this situation. Until now, we have not had efficient IT systems that would allow us to accurately assess the patient's waiting time in specific cases. If for example. In medical rescue teams, we have a functioning IT system, a system to support the command of State Medical Rescue, on the basis of which we can determine exactly what time the team reaches the scene, how long the benefits are provided at the scene, how long it takes to transport to the hospital emergency department, then in the case of the SORs we are not quite able to determine that. Therefore, the Minister of Health is currently introducing pilots to assess the waiting time for admission in the hospital emergency department. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This pilot scheme will probably be put in place later this year. It covers several hospitals in Poland and on the basis of this we will draw conclusions that will apply throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u37	Stay here, Minister, because I'm sure you want to ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u38	Yes, thank you very much. Minister, in view of the fact that we agree here that hospitals that have hospitals in their SOR structures receive many patients so-called. acute, in the SOR, and then these patients have to go to branches, hospitals that have in their SOR structures, are consequently accepted e.g. Almost 80% patients in an acute mode for internist wards, for orthopedics, for neurology, and it happens very often that patients must be directed to lie in the hallway because there is no room in the wards. The provincial coordinator, who deals with the issue of coordination, at a time when a disaster or mass event occurs, claims that there is no competence to direct patients already diagnosed, stabilized in the SOR, to a unit that is in the rescue system. Other hospitals are effective enough to say that they pronounce it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the Ministry working on this, and will it offer any solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u39	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u40	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, the role of the voivodship coordinator is defined in the Act on State Medical Rescue. This law was amended in June this year. It introduces some changes to this position. Until now, only a doctor could act as a voivodship coordinator under the law. There have been situations where this position was sometimes unsolved because of the lack of staff, and this also in some ways caused a disruption of the coordination of these rescue operations. We changed that bill. Medical rescue workers, nurses and other persons may also perform this function at the moment, subject to compliance with the requirements strictly laid down by law. In addition, from 2021, the coordinator will operate in the medical office, where he will be able to keep track of the situation of medical rescue teams, first of all, as well as verify the number of vacant places in the voivodship and take appropriate action in this respect. The coordinator shall first of all take action to identify the subject to whom the patient should be transported by the medical emergency team, while the issue of intra-hospital traffic depends already on the decision of the persons who work in the emergency department at the moment, or older on-call doctors or persons who decide the patient's fate when he is in the hospital. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of the Civic Platform will ask a question about the so-called KNF scandal. It is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be responsible, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, for the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak. The first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a big corruption scandal in the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. Corruption scandal. With all due respect, I'm afraid, but Minister Nowak is unable to answer the questions we want to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki. His absence here is surprising because we wanted to ask many questions, which only the Prime Minister can answer personally, because there are questions such as who specifically issued the decision to appoint a man without any qualification for the board of the stock exchange, which was Grzegorz Kowalczyk, the same Grzegorz Kowalczyk, about which we hear on famous tapes and which is supposed to earn probably 40 million PLN in Getin Bank. The notes show that the Ministry of Development did not have a minister, and then Mr Morawiecki was the minister. There's a lot about who gave counter-assignment to these decisions, but there's no answer to the question of who in the ministry, when it comes to the exercise of rights in shares, issued this decision. The scandal exploded and frightened millions of Poles because this is a scandal: a bank for a dollar. And the most important question, also the question addressed personally to the prime minister of this government, is why, after the outbreak of this scandal, the legislative work on the amendment was not stopped: the bank for the money. Minister Nowak, who runs this bill, will of course not answer my question as to why he was ordered. It is Mr Morawiecki who has to answer the question of why there is a big corruption scandal, and he does not want to explain it and his subordinate institutions make it difficult for us to work to clarify this matter. It's just unacceptable. Why the Government of Mateusz Morawiecki continues [[♪ The bell ♪]] The biggest scandal in the history of the Third Republic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u43	So, Mr. President, you're gonna drop the question if you don't have a prime minister? Because from what you've said, since there's no Prime Minister of the Government, you don't want to ask a question. [[Such a conclusion cannot be drawn.]] I understand that was a rhetorical question. I ask Minister Piotr Nowak to respond. [[Your marshal, the questions have been answered after all. I don't think Minister Nowak...]] That is why I invited Minister Piotr Nowak to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u44	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The work has not been stopped for one simple reason: it is a good amendment, it is a very good provision. I would like to stress that he already existed, such legislation already existed in the Banking Law from 1997 to 2016. In 2016, they were, let's call it, removed from the legal regime for one simple reason: because it was the implementation of the European Directive on the resolution and bankruptcy of banks. At that time, Europe felt that such solutions were ideal and panacea for all problems in the banking sector, because after the big financial crisis it was considered that there was no agreement for public funds to be involved in rescuing banks again, as losses are spread out to everyone, while profits are cumulative, as is all well, only in a narrow group of shareholders. That was the belief all over the world. We are in the European Union and we are governed by such a regime. This directive has been in force, if I remember correctly, probably since 2014, while the work in Poland lasted for a long time and after the rule of law and justice was taken over, sanctions were threatened with non-implementation of this directive, which is why in the beginning of 2016 or in the first quarter, I do not remember, it was adopted. There was a misconception in Europe, not only in Poland, that this directive would solve the problem of the liquidation or resolution of bank failures. Please note that according to this regime, the situation is: one of the banks has problems, here is, as I recall, Article. 101, KNF informs the Bank's Guarantee Fund, which performs these resolution tasks with us, each bank - there are 550 cooperative banks and more than 20 commercial banks - it needs to prepare so-called. the recovery plan that they have accepted, and the Financial Supervision Authority knows what is in these plans. Some banks form so-called banks. public interest, some not, very much not. This was discussed by the President of the National Association of Cooperative Banks on Friday at the Senate Committee meeting that many small banks, cooperative banks are not public interest banks, so if there is a problem in one of these banks, KNF informs BFG, BFG says that there is no public interest, and for them the option is liquidation. And that's in the legal regime. During this period, not only in Poland but also in the European Union, it has been recognised during the period since implementation that this is not the best solution, that it is the liquidation of the bank. However, the better solution is that this bank should be taken over, because damage done to the depositaries, whether to the companies or to the whole mood, because, as we know, in the financial markets, in the banking sector, the perception of stability is, to a large extent, a key foundation... It was considered that a better option would be for a bank with no public interest and liquidation option to be taken over by another bank. And this happened in previous years in Poland. [[It's the rules.]] In the 1990s, many banks were merged. The legislation that came from the European Union was not ideal and this period, i.e. from 2014 to 2015, was devoted to the work on this law, among others. in the Bank Guarantee Fund, because the Ministry of Finance oversees the Bank Guarantee Fund - that was the case before - and this entity was technically working on it because it was supposed to be that resolution body. After the implementation of all this, it was considered that this provision was necessary, as we also heard on Friday at the meeting of the Senate commission from Mr Pietraszkiewicz of the Association of Polish Banks, that yes, it is a good provision, the same from a representative of cooperative banks from the National Association of Cooperative Banks. Of course... [[...you don't like it.]] On the part of the cooperative banks, there was one mention that it would be good if it were literally written there that the cooperative bank could only be taken over by the cooperative bank. It was also explained by me and understood by a representative of the National Association of Cooperative Banks that in Poland there is such a presumption that a public bank is being taken over by a cooperative bank, but there may be some circumstances that no cooperative bank will be able to do so, so there is this option, but it is supposed to be. But all of this here undermines the narrative, which is being built, that it was meant to be prepared, that this was about some elaborate plan or corruption, that it was supposed to be done under big banks. This is completely illogical and contrary to what is in the legal regime. As I understand it, the Polish Bank Association and the National Association of Cooperative Banks also support these rules, which is also according to the state of mind involved somewhere in this strange process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u45	The next question will be asked by Marta Golbik. The Minister will have to wait for the Member to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u46	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You speak very much around you, you do not answer Mr Urbaniak's basic question. Besides, we've been to the Minister's office, unfortunately the Minister hasn't accepted us. If we are talking about amendments, we are not referring to the whole directive. We want Prime Minister Morawiecki to address the issue of an amendment which was thrown into the work of the Parliamentary Committee under very strange circumstances, which significantly changes the situation. It refers to the possibility of taking over banks in a situation where KNF will arbitraryly take such a decision whenever it suspects that the bank is in danger of bankruptcy. And that's the key thing. Why do the amendments suddenly appear in a situation where there are many doubts? This is about, for example, what Mr Urbaniak was talking about, Mr Kowalczyk, who appeared in Mr Czarnecki's conversation with Chrzanowski about 40 million for Mr Kowalczyk, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who was put on the Stock Exchange Council. And we ask you to answer such questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u47	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u48	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to correct. It's not like I didn't accept you. If you come by surprise, unannounced, I'm sorry, but I have a lot of work to do, different meetings, I'm not always there, I can't always drop everything and suddenly come. I'm so sorry. [[40 million PLN is an important reason.]] As far as this amendment is concerned, please note that it was not mysteriously presented, as you say. I would like to remind you that this amendment was in the government project... Sorry, it wasn't a government project. It's about the project we sent for consultation in June. It concerned the so-called. blocking websites. He was made public, hung on the RCL website, it was known. So this record was already known. This was also discussed on 6 November at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance during the implementation of the Bank Guarantee Fund Directive. It is also an audit of the European Union-related directive - 6 November. It was at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, it is recorded, this amendment was discussed. I do now. As we thought this directive would be adopted without major problems... [[There's a directive. She was in 2016.]] I'm about to highlight a point here. We care about time. This is the implementation of the directive. This recipe, I'm telling you... In a letter from Mr Chrzanowski, on 26 October 2011. He's very clear about it. And that's the problem we've been dealing with for a long time. [[Right after I talked to Czarnecki.]] Do you remember the history of the appointment of the Polish Apex Bank? It was known that in November 2018 the Association of Shareholders of the SGB was extinguished and at the end of December the Association of Shareholders of the SGB was extinguished. On the other hand, the new requirements of the European Union's CRR impose very high capital requirements on banks that do not operate in the association. That's why the banks are gathering. And now the situation is that the document says... [[Minister! You're talking about cooperative banks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u49	I would very much like to ask you not to have a discussion, but to have an answer. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: ...that four entities that might not be able to get together... One moment, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: I'm sorry. You will not find out what you want to hear, Mr Pierce, because you interrupt every time. Then let me finish. If your statement or question is misunderstood, you have time to correct it, but you should never interrupt. [[Good.]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Thank you very much. Please note that in a letter that is publicly available, as we have made it available to you, it is clear that four entities with own funds of less than EUR 5 million will be... It is defined that there is a threat, among others. in the case of these four, it is four-five, the entities, the four in total, that they may have a problem. And as these associations expire, it may turn out that these actors under this regime, but without this amendment, will have to be eliminated. From a social point of view, this is a very bad solution. That is why we have been working on these regulations for a long time and we want to introduce them. That is why they appeared in this project about blocking pages already in June, because we knew it would be in autumn, November and December. Development of that law due to changes [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the Ministry of Digitization in the approach to the website register stood, here this amendment of 6 November in the law implementing the BRR did not go through at one meeting of the Sejm and discussions appeared, as we understand, so on 7 November we wanted to join the law, we proposed to include it in the act on supervision. The point is that, before this risk arises, four entities will have to be liquidated, there is an opportunity to take over entities, which would be in the interest of depositaries and societies where these cooperative banks are. That's the only rational reason. That's why it was done. Adding other climates to this, I'm sorry, is an act to the detriment of those banks, such a society. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We move on to the next question that Members of the Law and Justice will ask about the possibility of eliminating compulsory housework in schools. It is addressed to the Minister of National Education. Mr Maciej Kopeć corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. And the first question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion on housework has been taking place in the Polish public space for several years. According to the Educational Research Institute, Polish children spend much more time doing homework than their peers from other European countries. The number of homework that is being done often means that children and young people have limited opportunities to participate actively in their family life. It should be noted that often the time spent on weekly homework is much greater than the optimal, effective value estimated for the student. Currently, there are cases of experimentation in the field of homework carried out by individual schools, which leads to chaos and in the long run may have a negative impact on the quality of education that students receive. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister as follows: Does the Ministry plan to regulate mandatory housework in the legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u51	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members, assessing the student's educational achievements is about recognising the level and progress of the teacher's knowledge and skills in relation to the educational requirements arising from the basics of the curriculum at school, which takes into account the basics of the curriculum. The provisions of the Education Law do not oblige the teacher to ask the students homework, there are no such provisions, but the assessment of homework can be one of the forms of checking the teacher's educational achievements. Whether and what homework is being done to students is decided by the teacher who organizes the educational process. The aim of the homework students is to support the teaching work of the teacher, because they are a way of perpetuating or checking the messages gained during the classes, provided, of course, that the student mastered the teaching content as a result of his schoolwork and is able to do homework on his own. The fulfillment of this condition requires the teacher to ask such work, to which the student was prepared as a result of his lessons, i.e., for teaching reasons, it is not necessary, of course, to ask for tasks involving material which had not been developed before. Self-fulfilment of homework should be a way for the student and a way of perpetuating knowledge, and a way of motivation to learn. When deciding on homework, the teacher should also take into account the burden on pupils arising from the teaching of other subjects, while the Director, in the framework of the educational supervision, should monitor the compliance of teachers with the legislation on teaching, education and care activities and other statutory activities, i.e., the Director's competence is to analyse and assess how the educational process is implemented, including adjustments as regards teachers, educational requirements. Organisational arrangements for home tasks should always be implemented at school level and should be implemented at intra-school level. This will allow you to actually adjust your homework to a given educational stage, to the level of pupils and to your parents' expectations. Important actors in this matter are school councils and institutions and parents' councils operating in schools in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Education. The Board of Parents, like the school board or the institution, may address the Director with proposals and opinions on all matters relating to the functioning of the school, including requests for homework. The introduction of legislation prohibiting students from doing homework will have a significant impact on the organisation of the teaching process and will restrict the right for teachers to choose freely the methods of working with the student, and in accordance with Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Teacher Charter Act in the implementation of the curriculum has the right to apply freely such teaching methods and education as it considers the most appropriate among the recognised teachings of today. On the other hand, we will look at what the Member was talking about. The issue of homework was analysed in various international, key studies in which Poland participates, such as PISA, such as TIMSS, i.e. research on mathematical skills and mastering mathematical issues by fourth graders, or such as PIRLS, which concern reading skills of fourth graders. Such studies were also conducted by the Educational Research Institute. If we look at PISA and those that have been conducted since the beginning of this century, we will notice that in fact the number of hours spent by Polish students on homework is higher than in OECD countries. However, it is interesting to see more detailed studies of PISA in recent years, from 2015, because if we looked at them, we would see that in fact a student in total for homework and after-school tasks, because this was the last study, he spent 18.4 hours a week with us, while in OECD countries - 17.1 . In detail, a statistically 15-year-old spent 3.1 hours on natural objects in Poland, in OECD countries - 3.2 hours, on mathematics in Poland - 3.4 hours, in OECD countries - 3.8 hours, on mother tongue - 3 hours, in OECD countries - 3.1 hours. This subject, which clearly distinguishes the Polish school and Polish student from the others, is a foreign language and it simply determines these differences in hours - in Poland it is 4.9 hours, in OECD countries - 3.1 . These studies were, as I said, also carried out for the fourth graders. In the case of TIMSS, a study of math skills, as the teachers declare, the amount of homework to be done is higher than the average in OECD countries, in other words, [[♪ The bell ♪]] These tasks are actually asked more often. It is different for PIRLS, i.e. reading studies. There, this percentage is different, below the OECD average.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u53	And the second question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u54	Dear Marshal! Minister! In a large part, you have already answered the question I have proposed, but I would like to clarify that the problem is not so much asking the housework as their purpose. If homework is intended to preserve the material converted at school, then it's okay. This is the kind of work that teaches systematicness, organization of work. However, many teachers ask their children a whole new material that they didn't have time to redo at school or that they didn't intend to redo. Then the baby can't handle it at home alone. Some feel that the nature of homework needs to be changed. In this respect, can the Ministry, the curators, influence schools, educational units? It's about examining the nature of the housework. What possibilities does the curatorium, Ministry of Education have in relation to educational institutions to improve the quality of homework? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or just appeals, teacher education, or maybe some other means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u55	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u56	As the honourable Member rightly pointed out, we are dealing with two different issues. One is, of course, a quantitative issue and most studies have been carried out in this area. It's about the number of hours a student spends on homework or after-school work. In contrast, there is less research on the meaning of homework and its effectiveness, in other words, the quality of the teaching process. In fact, we can try to deal with this in various ways. Looking at the Polish research carried out by the Educational Research Institute in relation to pupils in Class VI, the result of quantitative studies indicated that the student spent four to five hours a week on homework. However, it is worth noting that studies have also been conducted from a different angle. If the scope of the study were to be extended to include extracurricular activities in addition to homework, it would appear from the studies conducted in 2015 that almost 20% of the students in Class VI were involved. needs psychological and pedagogical help, and almost 40% - compensatory actions in mathematics and Polish. We also remember, of course, that there was a test at primary school earlier. Although it was not selective, but diagnostic, after class VI some students applied to junior high schools, e.g. Bilingual or other secondary schools that required additional preparation or offered a different form of recruitment. In principle, researchers wondered about the quality of all these activities, how they actually resulted from needs and how they resulted from the implementation of the Article. 42 Teacher Cards, or so-called. card hours. On the other hand, when it comes to what can be done and what should be done, it is worth paying attention to the quality of the PIRLS study I mentioned, namely the study of achievements in reading the fourth graders. That's where the quality factor was pointed out. It can be said that these studies show what appears to be quite obvious, i.e. Common sense is the most important thing. Daily homework was inefficient, non-tasking too. In other words, as the Polish teacher declared in the case of this study, homework several times a week brought the greatest teaching effect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This was measured by the number of points. On the other hand, when it comes to supervision, it is not the Minister who supervises schools, it is the principal of the school and the head of the school - the school's curator. That way you can control what's going on at school. An important factor is also the parent's application to internal school rules that parents should be influenced by, whether by the parent's council or by the school board. In our view, this should be provided for and clearly included in school rules. Each parent and pupil should know how the tasks will be enforced and how they will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u57	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question to be asked by Members of the Civic Platform on the scandalous statement by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Piotr Gliński in an interview given to the weekly "Right." Poverty is not just a question of money. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Mr Piotr Gliński, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Culture and National Heritage will answer. And the first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Grupiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am very surprised that the Prime Minister is with us today. It seemed to me that the Prime Minister should resign immediately after this speech and its publication, or at least Mr Mateusz Morawiecki should have dismissed you. You are the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. You're not a random person in such a high position, and you're a vice prime minister. And in Poland, in a country whose lands became a great Jewish cemetery after the Holocaust, after the Holocaust, which was done by the Germans in our lands, especially in our lands, you say words that hurt the Jewish community all over the world. They injure both the children of the Holocaust and all the descendants of those who were tortured, murdered, starved in concentration camps, murdered in extermination camps in Poland. I wonder if you, as Minister of Culture, know that words can hurt more than a knife or a weapon, that they can stay in their hearts and memories longer, because wounds heal, and words, unfortunately, remain unhealed for a very long time. Henri Grynberg, a writer who devoted his entire life to commemorating the history of Jews and their tragedies in Polish lands, spoke about the fact that words are universal weapons, and to small fights, and to great wars. You fought a great war after this terrible event at the beginning of this year, when Minister Ziobro and Mr Jaki carried out a bill in violation of the history of Polish Jews in general, the historical memory of Europe in fact. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After that, you can't keep the right rhetoric on such important matters? You, Minister of Culture? You really should put yourself at the disposal of the Prime Minister in this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u59	I ask you, Prime Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members, The full sound of my speech for the weekly simply looks like this: When the program is missing, and you lack the program, because anti-PiS, as you say, is no program, the fight is moving into the sphere of emotion. The language spoken about PiS is to rule out, vanquish, dehumanize us, delegate us, we are to be treated as Jews by Goebbels. I bring it up in its entirety, because in public space and media it appeared out of context and very significantly changed, manipulated part of the quoted sentence, which completely distorts its meaning. This lied, false sentence, which was repeatedly quoted in the media, became the basis of manipulation and was said: Gliński says that PiS is treated by the opposition like Jews by Goebbels. This is a simple statement, from which it is easy to bounce back and swim into some unauthorized interpretations, and even, as it turns out, accuse the author of anti-Semitism. You have just sailed into such areas of overinterpretation - I do not know, I hope, not out of bad will. However, my statement concerned the actions of part of the current Polish political opposition and was a description of their intended or unintended effects or, in a slightly different way, the projections of your intentions and objectives carried out by means of properly selected or accidentally used propaganda techniques. [[Public television.]] So the only comparison I made concerns the similarity of methods, techniques of action and objectives and the possible intention of the authors of propaganda, not e.g. its scale, intensity, the situation of the general group of people to whom it is applied, not to mention comparing to possible consequences, the final effects of similar actions that we know from history. This is an outrageous overinterpretation. It is used to manipulate - yes, I know what it is used for - to use these strongest, biggest, hardest arguments to destroy, I hope, still a counter partner, in the political field. No one conscious can make such parallels, it would be, if someone says so, absurd. On the other hand, it still seems to me that, in a free debate in a free democratic country, we can, and I am convinced that we have a duty, a discussion, and that it is hard, but strictly intellectually, about methods of political struggle and techniques of political propaganda. So if it hurts someone, because they were attacked or accused of propaganda methods very dangerous in their effects, because they exclude, as it were, broad social groups from the area of civil rights - this is what this method is used for - it is only and only part of the current Polish opposition, about other reactions to my speech, that part of the Polish opposition, which unfortunately applies these methods. That's the main problem. [[Public television, not us.]] Perhaps the world should also hear about this - that you are using similar techniques. No one else is the subject of this criticism, any other interpretations are unfounded. If anyone is offended about this, I am, of course, very sorry, I regret it, but it follows, I think, and I hope, only from the misunderstanding of the message we are talking about. So my speech was only referring to the language of the Polish public debate, to its extraordinary, even unusual tightening, to speeches that have recently begun literally to resemble the tricks known from the history of Germany of the 1930s, yes, developed long before World War II and the conference in Wannsee. I mean - it has to be said unfortunately, I know that it is very painful, maybe we should not discuss it - the identification of political opponents with words such as PiS-owska locusts, recently in the media very often repeated by Mr Neumann, for example, what I heard with my own ears... [[It's a biblical comparison.]] ...a novelty, fascism, Hitler, a bolshevik lamb, neobolshevism, writings, dewriting (such as extermination), disgusting PiS-owski - adjective PiS-owski, spoken with a particular emphase, with such depreciative, emotional meaning and best in every other sentence. The champion is one of the modern messengers who recently used this 36 times on one television show. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a propaganda method to exclude someone from the rights normally granted in every community to anyone who functions in it. In addition, recently - let us think about this - e.g. Your Member posted on Facebook a photo of the Deputy Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship and signed: This face fits perfectly with the PiS. So, by appearance, we're going to admit party affiliations now, and we're going to say that the PiS are like that, and that's what they look like? These are the methods we're going to use in a political fight, gentlemen? [[You take care of the public television, it's up to you.]] Unfortunately, the caricatures, which you also use in the political fight, are being transferred alive from Der Stürmer. I have to show it, unfortunately, I have to show it. He's a member of your party... [[You'll be quoted again, Minister.]] I will, but you're doing it, not me. These methods are used by Polish opposition. [[Take it easy, sir.]] You're using it. [[Time's up.]] And before that, the whole shamfage of the contempt industry with the exploits of Mr. Palikot, starting with the term "mohera," take your grandmother's proof. What's this? This is difamation, this is the removal of civil rights, the exclusion of a certain social group from the area of the political community, the humiliation of this group - this is what you apply and this is what you applied. These are three volumes of work by Mr Sławomir Kmiecik, the industry of contempt. Your statements are described here. Gentlemen, you belong to a category of Members of the Civic Platform that does not stand out in this propaganda, and that is true, but also - and that is what you should answer publicly - you have never criticized your fellow Members, your colleagues, who use this method. You did not defend the basic civilized standards of political struggle against using such methods. Here we should also refer to other methods that are used. The famous election spot: evil, hate, they'll go to the election... [[Your marshal, time.]] ...who brought you the victory of the 2011 election. This is a spot with the hate-sick people who are supposed to define - exactly - our political side.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u61	Prime Minister, time's up. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: Marshal, I'm almost done. Among other things, with this Mr. Hadacz provocator. [[Voice from the room: 3 minutes already...]] Such methods of political struggle have been and are being used by countries. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the extra question. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You failed. You failed as Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Goebbels was a Gauleiter of Berlin. What he did as a gauleiter, you can read in every history book. You've caused a scandal. Not only here, above the Vistula, your words have been read and properly interpreted, but also in Europe, overseas, with our greatest ally. The New York Times, The Washington Post, Newsweek - these titles have taken note of your statement and described it as outrageous. It was you who sailed away, you perpetuate - also today's performance - the stereotype of an anti-Semite Pole. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We asked a very brief question in writing: When will you withdraw from these outrageous words and when will you apologize? You haven't taken advantage of the opportunity we've created for you so far. You've got another one. You can come out and say, "I'm sorry." Then it will be understood accordingly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u63	Please, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen, you're playing with fire. You are using these methods, and now you are also trying to use this disgusting, shameful method in political warfare, lying about my intentions and my statements. I was talking clearly about the language of propaganda, nothing more. It is clear that the intentions of my speech were as far away from hurting anyone, putting very good Polish-Israeli relations at risk and do not mix it up. You're the ones using these methods. Shame on you. [[Applause]] [[You insulted us.]] Shame on you. They were as far away as possible from making unauthorized historical comparisons. It's just crazy people or people of bad will can do it. I also wanted to warn you once again about the danger of using rhetorical and propaganda grips known from the past. I called for the reconnaissance of the use of evil in the political struggle, and that was my intention. Modern Poland cannot use such methods, among others. That's what you guys were talking about. And no matter how big and ridiculous the cannons have been against me, I will protest against these kinds of methods and I will talk about it. However, I was sad to accept - and it is also obvious - the fact that someone started repeating a fragment of the sentence taken from the context and caused such a disproportionate, inadequate and false reaction. I also regretted the message of the Israeli Embassy in Warsaw, in which my statement was quoted in a incomplete way, and the speech quoted in a incomplete way can be manipulated very easily, especially since the discussion about current references to propaganda methods from those dark times or for example. Bolshevik propaganda methods are present both in Polish public life and in open scientific debate in Poland and the world for many years. I don't know why someone's trying to lie like that right now. Gentlemen, you're contributing to this. You'll be ashamed of it before history. [[We're just quoting.]] I can once again express my regret that my words have been misunderstood. The political error on my part was that I created an excuse for extraordinary, even absurd sometimes overinterpretation. It's true. On the other hand, I have expressed my respect for the great tragedy of the Jewish nation many times. I don't have to explain this to you. I also expressed this respect with the act and care for the memory and cultural heritage of Polish Jews, which is an important element of the Polish national heritage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This care is our duty, our common duty, including the masters and those who, on your political side, use these shameful propaganda methods.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u65	I'm extending your time, Minister, one minute. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: Thank you, Marshal. As you know perfectly well, the subject of my department's activities for many years has been taking care of the memory and cultural heritage of Polish Jews, because it is a beautiful, important element of the Polish national heritage, of which we are proud. My statement does not depreciate or refer at all to the tragic events with which you are trying to align this statement. It concerns the current times in Poland, the current propaganda methods that your colleagues use in the political fight. And that's disgraceful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[All you have to do is apologize.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked about the situation... [[Your marshal, correct.]] About what? The password itself isn't enough for me. About what? [[Misunderstood speech, Marshal.]] Mr President, I am not asking you this question, and therefore I am not asking you. [[The Minister had six minutes more than we did.]] The fact that the minister had a long time stems from the fact that the Marshal of the Sejm may extend that time. Gentlemen were out of time, too. This observation is therefore not justified. What does the corrigendum have to do with it so that I can take it into account, sir? [[The Minister misunderstood me.]] In what part of the speech? [[Excuse me, are you going to question me now?]] Yes, I have the right to ask that question. What part do you want to correct? [[Sign up for the other side.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thank you very much. We move on to the next question about the situation in the export of Polish food in the context of the visit of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development in China. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk will answer. The first question will be asked by Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We know that the situation in Polish agriculture is difficult. It is difficult mainly because of the fact that for many years Polish assets, Polish processing have been sold out. The networks, the corporations dictate prices. The only chance for Polish agriculture is to sign international agreements for export of Polish products, agricultural products. Signing one agreement with one country is dangerous, because we know from history, even from the current history, that the introduction of an embargo could disturb the entire market of a country. I'm talking about our country, Poland. That's what happened in the past. That's why I have a question for the Minister: What have the contracts been signed recently? What actions have been taken on this topic so that we can sell our Polish products to other countries? We know that over 30 contracts have been signed over the last three years. It's about 30 new countries, new agreements. This is very important information. We also know that counsels are to be brought to the embassies. At what stage is the introduction of those advisors who will deal with the sale of our Polish products in other countries, at other embassies, in other countries? We also know that the Minister has been to China recently. China is a really big market. We're interested. How did these conversations end? What stage are they at? What are the chances of this trip to China? As I said, for us, for Polish producers, it is very important for Polish farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u67	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In Poland, exports of agri-food products are increasing. In 2017, it reached a record level, i.e. €27,8 billion. We have also recorded a record positive balance for agri-food products with a value of nearly EUR 8.5 billion. One of the export development strategies is Poland's search for the possibility of establishing direct relations, among others. China. It was also served by this visit from Minister Ardanowski to China. As far as the Chinese market is concerned, this is obviously a specific market. It is a very distant country. The articles that we can export there must have a longer shelf life, shelf-life. We can boast of exports of such goods as milk, liquid milk, but it is UHT milk, where the shelf-life date is 6 months. Of course, milk powder - shelf life: 12 months or 24 months - whey powder. Those are the articles we send. Of course, as far as pork and poultry are concerned, the ASF problem is now despondent, so to speak, these mutual relations, because they exist in us and China, but also in poultry, there are already such positive symptoms that soon our poultry will return to the Chinese market, and this too. It was a visit. What else can I say? Compared to 2016, the value of exports of food products increased, e.g. milk and cream powder - by 67%, whey - by 53%, malt extract, flour food preparations, infant shit - by 51%, fresh milk and cream - by 34%. It's a short story. Of course, we are very sorry that the balance is, unfortunately, negative. We import more than we export. Our actions will go in this direction to at least balance it out. Of course, success would be so-called. export surplus. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u69	Thank you very much. The supplementary question will be asked by Mr Piotr Polak. Stay on the stand, or the Member will ask a question from the jury.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u70	Yes, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A month ago, we learned that the European Commission has allocated additional funds from the EU budget to promote food from all countries of the European Union. I wanted to ask the Minister whether, in this connection, we, Poland, managed to obtain some funds to promote this food from this amount. Another question. Minister, we know that the government has a strategy to support Poland's economic activities on external markets. This applies to not only agri-food products, but all. We are talking about agri-food products. How does cooperation with the Polish Investment and Trade Agency look like? This facility is very active, and I think it's working with the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] agriculture in the promotion of Polish food on external markets.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u71	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u72	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, I forgot, I'm sorry, to refer yet to the sales advisors, because they will perform a very important function. What I'm trying to say is that the work is already underway, and it's advanced. We're very committed to this because it has to be specialists, and it's high-end, and we're looking for them too. They will soon perform a very important role, they will cooperate with the Minister of Agriculture or with the Ministry of Agriculture and with those institutions which you have just pointed out, only to help - because they have such a role - to find themselves on the markets of the European Union's countries, but also so-called. third markets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u73	That's all, thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. This is a question about the results of the investigation conducted by the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Lublin concerning the sale in 2012 by the Government of PO-PSL to the Zespół Elektrowni Pątnów-Adamów-Konin 85% shares of Mine of Węgiel Brunatnego Konin SA and Mine of Węgiel Brunatny Adamów SA. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. Deputy Attorney General Bogdan Święczkowski will answer. The first question will be asked by Mr Richard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! In 2012, the government of PO-PSL sold 85% to the Zespół Elektrowni Pątnów-Adamów-Konin Power Plant shares of Mine of Węgiel Brunatnego Konin SA and Mine of Węgiel Brunatny Adamów SA. The shares of both companies paid PLN 175 million. Privatisation is considered very controversial because the mines have been sold below their value, as indicated by the Supreme Audit Chamber report. I would like to ask, first of all, about the Coal Mine of the Brunette Adams, the largest plant in the Turkish county, which slowly ceases to exist. The book value of this mine was estimated at PLN 144 million and it turns out that it was sold for PLN 67 million. Therefore, a report was made to the prosecutor's office about the possibility of a crime being committed by the minister from the Ministry of the Treasury that was still in existence at that time, as well as by the trade unionists from those establishments. In the general view of the local environment, the trade unions of miners, it is considered that the scrap value of equipment, machines from these mines was higher than the value obtained by the Ministry of Treasury funds. Of course, this caused damage to the State Treasury. I'd like to know where the investigation is at, when it's over and when the indictment is filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u75	Please, Mr. Bogdan Święczkowski, Deputy Attorney General, National Attorney, will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u76	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that the Minister of Justice could not answer this question, because there is no access to such information, but, of course, such an answer can be given by the Attorney General or his first deputy, who is the national prosecutor, which is why I came here to give this answer. Of course, you must bear in mind that an intensive, advanced investigation is under way and the prosecution cannot, in detail, inform third parties of previous findings or intentions. However, in accordance with Article. 12 Laws on the Public Prosecutor's Office, given that these are important issues for the security of the State and for public policy purposes, I have decided to provide you with the information we can provide. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this investigation was initiated on 5 July 2016 in the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Lublin by order of sign. RP II Ds. 2.2016. It is a matter of abuse of the powers conferred on persons obliged by the Ministry of the Treasury, pursuant to the Act, to deal with property matters of the State Treasury in connection with the privatisation of the company under the company Mine Węgiel Brunatnego Adamów SA consisting of the sale of 85% shares of the company in favour of the Zespół Elektrowni Pątnów-Adamów-Konin Elektrowni Pątnów-Konin Elektrowni Pątnów-Adamów-Konin, with the acceptance for the purpose of this transaction of underestimating the value of the shares, which was caused in the name of the State Treasury by damage to property of large size, i.e. approx. PLN 90 million. This is an art crime. § 296 § 1 k.k. As the Member here mentioned earlier, this procedure was initiated by a notification by the Ministry of the Treasury of suspicion of a criminal offence based on the findings made in 2015 by the Supreme Audit Chamber in the framework of the verification of several of the largest privatisation transactions carried out by the Minister of the Treasury in 2012 and 2014. Among the controlled transactions were those sales of 85% action. In the course of this privatisation, NIK found irregularities subsequently covered by the notification. That's what I call it. It's a post-audit matter. A number of procedural actions have been carried out in the course of the two-year investigation. Very extensive evidence was collected with 46 volumes of files at the moment, over 9,000. cards. In particular, extensive documentation was obtained from the former Ministry of the Treasury, the Supreme Chamber of Control, as well as the Coal Mine of Adamów SA. The present case is also accompanied by documents drawn up by the privatisation advisor, such as reports on estimates of the value of mine shares and their updates. As witnesses of employees of the Adamów mine, the privatisation advisor of the Pątnów-Adamów-Konin Power Plant, the Supreme Audit Chamber controllers carrying out the privatisation investigation, the employees of the Ministry of Treasury carrying out activities in the context of the privatisation of the mine, as well as the former Minister of Treasury and former Deputy Minister of Treasury. A number of arrangements have been made for the parties involved in the privatisation process and the persons involved have been interviewed. A total of 51 people have been interviewed so far. Further steps are planned to provide a comprehensive explanation of all the circumstances of the case, including interrogation, in an undetermined capacity, of Mr Alexander Grad, Mr Jan Bury or Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, as well as other persons who may have knowledge of the circumstances connected with the privatisation. In the course of this investigation, it was a very important and important issue for an expert in economics and finance to obtain an opinion on the value and valuation of these shares. This opinion was obtained by experts, and in the opinion of prosecutors, this opinion is incomplete in terms of issues and privatisation processes. Therefore, the prosecutor considered that it should be supplemented after securing further evidence. Only by drawing up another opinion from experts in this field will it be possible to make a comprehensive assessment of the privatisation and to turn this procedure from the in-rem phase into an in personam phase, i.e. to present a plea for committing any crimes to the persons determined. The investigation period was extended by my decision until 20 February 2019. This case remains under the supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Department for Economic Crime. I hope that by 23 February 2019 this procedure will, at least in part, be terminated. However, this also depends on a number of international actions, because a number of requests for international legal assistance have been made in this case. If we obtain these answers from international institutions of countries neighbouring Poland, then [[♪ The bell ♪]] this procedure may be terminated within that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u77	Will there be an additional question? [[Yes.]] The Member asks a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! You may not want to answer me, but I must ask you this question, because in this case the thread of the former Deputy Minister of the Treasure of Mr.John Bury, who led the so-called one, is important. privatization, selling the Adam mine. It turns out that he was very, very involved, and the day after the sale of this mine, these mines - perhaps this is a coincidence, perhaps not - he resigned his position. It looks as if he had a mission to carry out and immediately after it was completed he resigned from his duties at the Ministry of the Treasury. It is prominent, it was a prominent politician of the Polish People's Party. I would like to draw attention to this thread and ask whether this thread [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's in the investigation, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u79	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u80	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Of course, I can't answer in detail, but if you've listened to my earlier statement... I have pointed out that there is a thread related to Mr.John Bury and that there is a need for procedural action with him. In what capacity, for today, I cannot speak. But there's a thread, we check it out, we verify it. Besides, the D.A.'s office... This does not concern this question, but the prosecution is conducting a number of proceedings in which former Deputy Minister Mr Bury is present, in part already completed in the indictments and in part still pending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u81	We move to the last question in this part of the meeting of the Sejm, questions about the effects of the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure on the change of subsidiaries and the functioning of voivodship centres of road traffic. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz will answer. And the question is asked by the Members of Law and Justice. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber and the Civil Development Forum have made public reports on the rules for examining applicants for driving rights. These reports were critical and showed that the current organisation of the system of conducting state driving tests is not fully transparent, and self-financing of voivodship road traffic centres can make people who take the exam not fully believe in the full objectivity of examiners working in these centres. On 29 July 2016, I asked the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction to comment on the proposals for changes made in my interpellation, including the consideration of changing the subject-matter of the functioning of the voivodship road centres. The answer received on 23 September 2016 was that in August 2016, an advisory team was set up at the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction to train applicants for driving rights and to conduct public driving tests. In conclusion, please answer the question whether the team has developed any assumptions regarding the implementation of the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u83	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Mosiński's question, I kindly inform you that the Minister of Infrastructure, together with his appointed Advisory Group for the training of persons applying to drive, has prepared a draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles. The project under preparation involves a number of changes in the system for obtaining driving licences, including: changes in the functioning of drivers' training centres aimed at eliminating market failures directly affecting the level of training for future drivers, and in particular actions related to the elimination of unfair competition. We also plan to introduce the possibility for accompanying persons to ride after completing basic training at the driver training centre. This will reduce the cost of training for drivers and allow for legalisation of the current state of affairs. We are also planning, and this is actually the main change, the transfer of responsibility for the organisation and conduct of State driving licences from the Marshal of the voivodship to the voivodship, including in particular the transfer of the financing of the organisation and the carrying out of State driving tests to the driving licence from the voivodship centres under the Marshal of the voivodship to the state budget. So these tasks will be carried out by the voivode. The fees for the exams will affect the voivodeship's account, the voivode will finance the examiners, as well as the WORDs. It is about transferring the employment of examiners from the voivodship road centre also to the voivodship. Then WORD will have no impact on the level of the state exams, and we will eliminate this pathology that the number of exams generated the profits of WORDs. This project, following the preparation by the Ministry of Infrastructure of the impact assessment of the regulation and the relevant justification, was submitted in mid-2018 to the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers to submit it to the Government's Programming Team to decide on the inclusion of this project in the list of legislative and programming work of the Council of Ministers. Right now, we're at the stage of some minor details, we're agreeing with the Center for Strategic Analysis. I hope that this will soon be included in the list of work of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u85	Minister, please stay on the stand, because the Member is asking a question from the jury. Mr Jerzy Paul, an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we learn from the report NIK published in 2015, regarding the financing of voivodship road centres, as much as 88% the income of the institution was derived from the examination fees, of which as much as 70% This amount came from the revision exams. That is why I would like to refer to what you said just a moment ago, Minister. Therefore, I consider it a legitimate question whether the transfer of WORD's subsidiaries from the marshal offices to the voivodeship offices should not be considered. The examiners would then be state officials. Without major obstacles, the State could finance examination centres so that there is no suspicion that the students are especially flunked to complement the missing financials in the WORD budgets. That's why I have a second question that you haven't answered yet. In what period does the government intend to transfer the subordinateness of voivodship road traffic centres from marshal offices to voivodship offices? What time can this be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u87	Like I said...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u88	Go ahead. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, the general rule is that we would like to move the examiners to the voivodeship so that there would be the funding of exams by the voivode and the funding of WORDs by the voivode, because the money from the exams is financed by WORDs. Even here we see some savings for the Treasury, because we think 40% or 50% The proceeds from the exams will boldly finance WORD, but we would not like to, in colloquially speaking, dress the voivodships in the whole structure, so that the WORDs would remain. In our opinion, however, the mistake lies precisely in the fact that the examiners are dependent on the heads of WORDs, right. So that the change in this subordinate will result in these changes that we expect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current meeting of the Sejm will consider information on the export mode programme - support for the internationalisation of the activities of Polish companies, about which the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice brought the presentation. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Ewa Malik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Today's topic of current information is: "Mode for export" - support for internationalisation of Polish companies. I would like to start with a short quote from President Andrzej Duda's message to the Polish business community on the occasion of Congress 590: "Although we are living in a deeply changed world today, we are faced with many similar challenges as before. In the interests of their future, Poles must not give up on shaping factors of long-term economic growth, strengthening competitiveness and expansion of our domestic companies to global markets. After the transformation in 1989, and especially in recent years, Poles have achieved incredible success in the economy. According to consistent assessments by many experts this year, the growth dynamics of Polish GDP will remain at the level of approx. 4.5% and it is one of the highest in Europe. In September this year Poland entered the ranks of economically developed countries. The Government of Law and Justice has proven its actions in economic policy that Poland can be effectively changed for the better, although we still have many urgent and difficult tasks ahead of us. Exactly, what can be done about the expansion of Polish entrepreneurship, Polish products and technological thought to the world market? In Poland, only one in five companies are in any way linked to international markets. This means that the results of Polish exports depend to a large extent on the economic fluctuations of the European Union's economies. This situation can be changed by both geographical diversification and product diversification of Polish exports. Although Poland strengthens its position on international markets, it increases both its share of world exports and its export value, 80% Polish exports go to the European Union market, of which 28% Only to Germany. Only 8,5% our exports are high-tech goods, and export growth is driven by foreign capital companies - 70% participation. Therefore, we are threatened with a deepening division into a dynamic, modern, integrated segment of companies with foreign capital and a low-tech, losing share in the global market segment of companies with Polish capital. The increase in foreign expansion of Polish companies, understood both as increasing exports and Polish investments abroad, is one of the main objectives of the Responsible Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2017. The best way to achieve the long-term objectives of internationalisation of Polish companies is to involve as many entities as possible in international activities and then support them in export and capital expansion. There is a new integrated system of economic promotion aimed at strengthening the international image of Poland as a country with which it is worth cooperating, and aimed at improving the recognition of Polish products and services abroad. We learn that thanks to consultations with entrepreneurs, employees of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology have identified the main problems preventing the growth of the internationalization of the Polish economy. We would like to hear from the Minister on the basis of which the new system for promoting the Polish economy built within the framework of the "Mode for Export' project, which provides for a new model of handling of the exporter in each phase of the development of his activity, from [[♪ The bell ♪]] a beginner exporter to a company that locates its branches abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u90	Thank you, Member. I invite you to respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mariusz Ociepa. You're welcome. Marcin Ociepa, right? But I'm told your name is Mariusz. I'll fix it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I assure you, my name is Marcin. On the other hand, thank you very much for your vote, thank you for your question. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, she presented a very precise diagnosis of the current situation and the challenges we face when it comes to internationalisation of Polish companies, their foreign expansion, and the risks associated with maintaining the current state, which is risky in this sense, that it makes us dependent on our economic situation, on the global economy, and in a particular European way, which has its advantages, but also has very serious disadvantages and limitations. And it is true that, as part of the "Mode for Export" programme, we have taken steps that have been divided into seven major streams. The first is to build a knowledge base on Polish exports and develop the strategic competence of managing foreign expansion of the Polish economy, the second stream is to develop the motivation and competence of entrepreneurs in the field of exports, the third stream is to support in finding a contractor, the fourth - financing and export insurance instruments, the fifth - economic diplomacy and promotion of the Polish Economy brand, the sixth - operational excellence, the seventh - communication and information, including the Portal of Export Promotion. High Izbo! Each entrepreneur obviously expects and needs a different set of information, tools and support instruments. By consulting entrepreneurs, we have identified the main problems they are facing. Companies are primarily faced with a lack of capital and human resources, fear of risks, ignorance of conditions for access to foreign markets and languages - including, of course, knowledge of the legal ecosystem of a country, especially when we are talking about countries other than the European continent - the lack of long-term planning and the need to adapt products to demand abroad. But we also see some work on the part of the public administration, which we should do, namely: dispersal of information and improvement of information policy, institutional fragmentation, unclear procedures, lack of recognition of the Polish brand. We can work together on this all the time - government, government administration, but also local governments. That is why we operate in three fields: in the country, to increase the ability of Polish entrepreneurs to expand abroad, also with other stakeholders, such as the local authorities mentioned by me, abroad, to increase the number of recipients of goods and services, as well as cross-cuttingly, to ensure coordination, monitoring and continuous improvement of all activities and institutions involved in this process. We are as an administration very open to business, especially as a resort of entrepreneurship and technology ourselves in the name we stress the importance of this openness and cooperation. That is why we are constantly trying to simplify procedures and facilitate contact. We treat every idea that comes up as an idea that has two owners: the one that is a business owner and around which we are really trying to build our commitment, and the other owner, which is the administration. So we want to be those who feel a shared responsibility for the success of our entrepreneurs. We already have very specific instruments that have been put in place and are now functioning. We have established one institution, which is that we have organized these principles through the Polish Investment and Trade Agency of the Joint Stock Company, in which the entrepreneur can obtain full access to information and advice on expansion to foreign markets. As part of the agency's activities, we create a network of foreign trade offices, which is intended to be 70, in countries with the greatest potential for development for Polish companies. We've already launched over 50 foreign trade offices around the world. They are targeted at specific individualised support for entrepreneurs, the organisation of foreign business missions profiled for specific sectors, the implementation of support programmes dedicated to individual markets, the development of business entry strategies for foreign markets, the verification of foreign counterparties and the provision of standard services outside the country of access to information. This is the answer to all the challenges that I mentioned earlier, connected with market knowledge, with the presence in this market, so that the Polish entrepreneur is aware that there is an angel of business, who from the Polish state is on the ground and is ready to help him individually, not en block, not sectorally, not industryly, but individually approaches the needs of every entrepreneur. We are currently focusing support on key sectors, which are an important export position of the country, and those we are diagnosing, that they can play a key role in the future in improving the competitiveness of the Polish economy. The government supports 12 industries with this potential, as well as the potential to build an image, build a strong and recognizable image of the Polish Economy Brand. Programs have been developed for the following sectors: medical equipment, machinery and equipment, cosmetics, IT/ICT, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, Polish fashion, construction and finishing of buildings, yachts and boats, furniture, Polish food specialties, health services sector as well as automotive and aviation parts. These industries are supported within the framework of the "Promotion of the economy" project based on Polish product brands - Marka Polska Gospodarki - Brand. Participation of entrepreneurs in the above mentioned programmes are also financed by European funds. We support companies primarily in entering new markets, especially Asian, African or North American, which often have significantly higher growth and trade rates than traditional EU markets for us and still have undeveloped internal demand potential. As the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, we also have four export promotion instruments, financed by budget and implemented as de minimis aid. In addition, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego implements together with the Export Credit Insurance Corporation, KUKE, the government program Mt. Financial export support. Depending on the needs of BGK, it offers banking products to provide financing for a foreign buyer of Polish goods and services or debt financing for a Polish entrepreneur planning to expand abroad. The loans granted under the scheme are covered by KUKE insurance. The presentation during major promotional events in the world, in which we try to participate, including the most prestigious world expo exhibitions, also serves to strengthen the recognition of Polish products. In 2017, the Council Poland has actively participated in the international exhibition Expo in Astana, and we are currently preparing for a very intense presence within the Expo 2020 Dubai. Recently Poland - United Arab Emirates business forum was also held in Poland, which fits perfectly into the long-term construction of Poland's image as an important player on the European market for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! We approach these challenges with an attitude that Poland needs a new, fresh economic diplomacy. We implement it institutionally, also based on the needs of entrepreneurs, reaching for financial instruments, instruments that allow us to secure this foreign activity of our entrepreneurs. We are trying to do what is important - and I would like, Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, at the end, to emphasize it - to do so as one common ecosystem, because we understand that for all the success of our challenge, which is to support the internationalisation of Polish companies, it is important to cooperate with the state administration, local government, chambers of commerce, employers' unions and universities throughout the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u92	Thank you, Minister Marcin Ociepie. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I don't see any calls. I therefore close the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The promotion of exports has become a key element of the economic policy of many countries and the impact of export promotion and investment on the development of companies' foreign activities is apparent. Support for export activities takes various forms, is offered at different levels of power. In this respect, the restrictions arising from the provisions of the World Trade Organisation should be taken into account. In addition to the financial tools, entrepreneurs expect programmes to increase their knowledge of the possibilities of developing activities outside the country. For this purpose, the Investor and Exporter Service Centre was established. It provides Polish entrepreneurs with comprehensive information on foreign activities. This activity of the Centre is particularly important for smaller companies which cannot afford to organise their own services in this area. What support can entrepreneurs count on when they plan to expand their business abroad both within and outside the Union? According to the Ministry, is knowledge among entrepreneurs about the activity of the centre common? How many entrepreneurs use the services of this centre? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u94	Thank you. And I invite you to the speaker of Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's unbelievable, but it's real, where it's good, it goes in and it ruins. [[Applause]] This is the case for exports, which is well and has been growing continuously since 2013 without your pen programs. Last year its dynamics reached real, because at constant prices, 9.5%. Growth dynamics were high, ladies and gentlemen, even during the deconstructive period, with the exception of 2009 - the global financial crisis and 2012 - the European dimension of this crisis. I am convinced that the pen program at best is unnecessary, and at worst it can only cause damage, such as changes in the education system or recently in the banking system. So I find it hard to believe that you're improving something if you're not even able to collect and aggregate export data. It is not that export growth is driven by companies with foreign capital, as you say in the proposal, because exports of exclusively domestic property companies grew faster in 2008 and not slower than exports of foreign capital companies. Fashion for export continues and is well. Dear rulers, it is high time the fashion for honesty and truthfulness reigned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u96	Thank you. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukiz Club15, to make another speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question. Namely, according to information, the publicly available program will help to encourage entrepreneurs from Poland to search for and acquire contractors abroad. The main issue here is the so-called markets. Foreseeable. And here's the question: Which countries, in terms of export development, are interested in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship? Whether these countries are countries outside the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Economic Area, etc. and how will the interests of Polish companies which will participate in the programme be secured, will take economic cooperation, trade, but they may also be exposed, and sometimes this is the case, to losses due to the internal political and economic instability of certain entities in these countries? For example, countries such as Cuba, like the Dominican Republic. In general, however, the political situation is very directed by top-down, state and central management, but these are certainly forward-looking markets for trade that have already taken place. Therefore, is compensation for companies that may suffer losses due to the instability of certain business behaviour taken into account, so to speak? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u98	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Competitiveness is needed and indicated, all the more promotion, because without a good promotion, effective promotion is hard to dream of It's about competitiveness and going outside, and that's what we're supposed to care about. Every program should be well prepared. For 3 years - I would like to ask, Minister, such a question - this is the kind of promotion to be given to a convention organized in Rzeszów under the name "590" (Rzeszów). Maybe the name is too difficult and the people of Poles don't say much, but it's supposed to promote our economy. For the third time with great momentum, too much money is organized and there is a question - I know that these things are difficult to measure: Are there any effects of this because money goes there huge? It is huge funds and companies, businesses, but also the state budget, because the Treasury companies give huge money for this project. This is one issue and the other is competitiveness and promotion of our economy, competitiveness and electricity prices. Entrepreneurs are, to be honest, in a lot of shock right now. The price of electricity is rising rapidly by 70%. , and 30% That's for sure. This will certainly not be a competitive economy. We can't stand the competition. This will translate particularly into an energy-intensive industry. Do you have any concern that even the competitiveness we are about to lose, because in energy for the coming years there are no prospects for reducing the price of electricity, access to this energy, and there are very pessimistic signals in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From many sources? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u100	Thank you very much. Member of the non-member, Robert Majka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u101	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I have a fundamental question. I am a new Member, but I am concerned about the development of the eastern wall, especially cities such as: Przemyśl, Jarosław, Przeworsk, without excluding others. I have this question: how are you simply going to activate this region through investment, through the introduction of innovative technologies? How do you plan to introduce such a thing as broadband Internet that would activate investors? That's where he is, let's face it, marazm. Minister, second case. In my opinion, the unemployment we have in Podkarpacie is appalling. Unbelievable emigration of young people. Young people are looking for a job in England, Germany, and they could grow on the east wall. Young people who are needed by the Polish state cannot be depreciated. Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Currently, only 17 000 are exported to 2 million active companies. of them. And despite the desire to increase the sales of their products, businesses do not want to take the risk of entering foreign markets, satisfying the already stable position on local markets. And the lack of growth in competition, expansion and development, as we know, means stagnation both in the innovation of companies and in the economy. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister whether the funds involved in supporting exports are sufficient and adequately used and what measures would have to be taken to encourage entrepreneurs to look for new markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u104	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u105	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to start with the title of your project, the title that pretends something new is going on. That's the title of "Mode for export." Ladies and gentlemen, fashion for something is a temporary trend and some temporary direction, and I think that what we are doing here today as part of this current information is something permanent that needs to be developed and that expansion needs to be increased. And it is important not only to increase export expansion at the moment, this next stage is the internationalisation of our companies, i.e. production, service, creation of our subsidiaries, branches and, consecutively, financial, technological and human transfers. E.g. This was to be done by the trade and promotion departments of the embassies and consulates that you have liquidated, and for this place you are creating foreign trade offices, of which the Minister was gracious to mention. As you mentioned, today these offices are over 50, exactly 53, they are on the website, but, ladies and gentlemen, attention, only 25 of them are currently offices which, apart from the manager, also have experts, i.e. those which could be considered to be prepared for some work, while the other 28 offices are offices. Only with the managers. That's how you filled the offices in a year and a half. Can I be expansive? Is there anything you can do about not making offices for a year and a half to replace the decommissioned departments? What was the call, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the expertise of those admitted to these offices? I took the first example from the shore, of course I will make an interpellation and ask specific questions about this matter, the office in Tehran, Jarosław Kaczyński, not to confuse with Mr Kaczyński, I think, which, as I discovered on the social network, worked as a crewman on the Dubai airlines, was an interpreter, it seems, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Freelancer in Lotus and now head of an office like this in Tehran. What staff have you prepared? Are these just staff posts, or are they really offices that are supposed to help Polish entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! For many years we have heard domestic entrepreneurs complaining that our diplomacy, our trade services are not helping them abroad. Often they were very bitter words, we all heard that it is best if their activity is zero, because they can only corrupt. Today we are dealing with a comprehensive programme for growth efficiency of expansion of Polish companies. Our economy reaches the level at which these small Polish companies become medium-sized companies, medium-sized ones - large ones, and the largest ones go abroad. This expansion is still unsatisfactory, still these products, the services that we can provide on world markets, is too little, so this activity is still very necessary and should continue. I would like to ask, Minister, if we are gathering the attention of entrepreneurs, whether we are gathering their votes on this subject, because it is most important to listen to entrepreneurs to learn lessons from these lessons. The second point, the idea I want to drop off at the Ministry. We remember that in recent decades many people from developing countries have studied in Poland. These people have often returned to their countries and today they have very important ministerial positions, positions in the economy. It would be good for these people to monitor and keep in touch with them, so that they would be such an entry gate for Polish companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for Polish economic expansion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u108	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is being listened to by young people from the Technical School Complex in Lipna, which we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u109	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! Fashion for export, I think that Minister, a person such as Minister, has some objectivity to look at what is happening in the Polish economy, how it works and to say the whole truth, or perhaps part of the truth that you are able to embrace. Minister, export of coal in Poland: 2015 - 9 million t, 2016 - 8 million t with peas, in 2017 - about 6 million t. And what does import look like on the other hand? 2016 - 8.3 million t, 2017 - 13.4 million t. From the first to the third quarter of this year imports of coal to Poland amounted to 14 million t, by 72% more than in 2017. What does it turn out to be? After three quarters we import 9, almost 10 million tons of coal from Russia. That was 80%. more than in the previous year. The coal-importing coal company, Węglokox, is now starting to go through, acting like an importer. Minister, perhaps it would be worth saying clearly that today we actually have a fashion for import, and this import from Russia. This is the year in which it would have to be made clear and emphasized: imports from Russia in many areas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u111	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In 2015 as well as in 2016 and 2017, i.e. for the last 3 years, Poland has recorded a positive balance in foreign trade. This balance was a negative balance in previous years, under the governments of our predecessors. What were the main reasons for the transition from the negative balance to the positive balance? To what do we owe this? Is there a real chance that Poland will become a net exporter? Can the programme we are talking about today contribute to improving the relationship between net investment position and GDP in our country? Can the high dynamics of Polish exports contribute, or have already contributed, to the process of recolonization of the banking sector? You said here how important security and funding are for exports. Just one more quick question. Does the state, the Polish government, establish contacts in trade matters with Taiwan? From my contacts through the parliamentary group, I know that Taiwan imports 90% food, mainly from the United States, and is very interested in importing Polish food, because he is aware of the quality of Polish food, generally free from GMOs. So were there any rules of this kind that prevented when I was talking? I think that in previous years there was a lack of will from the Polish government to remove these barriers. Do you have an identified situation, and is Poland currently establishing talks, trade contacts mainly in food with Taiwan? It is a very absorbent market and a very rich country, so we would have a good chance of placing Polish food there. Thank you very much in advance for your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As one of the ministers reported a few weeks ago, following the development of a program called "Mode for Export', the resort wanted to know where we are abroad, where we could be, what are the attractive geographical directions, what products and services are demand for. I wanted to ask you if the resort really didn't know that before. Doesn't it come from data, e.g. collected and made available by the Central Statistical Office? In recent years Polish exports have been growing steadily and in 2017 we exported goods for more than EUR 203 billion. Unfortunately, only 8,5% goods dispatched abroad are highly technologically processed goods. In this area, I would like the Ministry to take action that will increase this level and thus affect the image of the Polish producer in the world. Another point is that there is to be a programme of support for business meetings in our country. It's a good thing it's gonna happen eventually, but for who? For your own? What entities will be able to apply for such support? What are the criteria for this support? Have the appropriations for this purpose been secured in the State budget for next year and what amounts are involved? I also wanted to ask how much it would cost to set up and how much it would cost to keep 53 foreign trade offices, which, without being diplomatic offices, are supposed to support business in foreign contacts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will we assess their functioning and effects? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u115	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Congress 590 took place in Jasionka near Rzeszów on 15 and 16 November. It's a super idea. I had the opportunity to participate in it, to participate in many discussion panels. Ladies and gentlemen! I have had a number of talks with Polish entrepreneurs, I have learned about their problems and I am proud that many Polish companies are entering European and global markets with great momentum. Minister! I have a question for you. What support can Polish entrepreneurs rely on, mainly from my district of Płocko-ciechanowski, mainly from the agri-food industry? I'm asking because there's a lot of overproduction in my territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u117	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, currency issues are very important in foreign trade and in the activities of Polish companies abroad. We know that Polish companies are exposed to foreign exchange risk, that is to say, the danger of adverse changes in the exchange rate, which may result in a reduction in receivables or an increase in liabilities expressed in foreign currencies. And of course we can talk about supporting various activities of Polish exports, but the institutional environment and currency issues are important. The value, the size of Polish exports to euro area countries is 58%. This is the latest data from the statistical office. And this is a very important issue, because if there is a situation in which the appreciation of the gold takes place, i.e. an increase in its value compared to the euro, and the euro is then the currency of invoicing, then, of course, the revenue of exporters is reduced and the profitability of domestic exports may decrease and the profitability of imports may increase. It is therefore very important to eliminate this currency risk, especially in the context of the euro that I have mentioned. I'd like to ask you a question, Minister, and ask for an answer. What is the government's position on this issue in the context of accession... to start actions related to the introduction of the euro in Poland? Does the Ministry see an important question in this whole process, whether this is important from the point of view of Polish exports? How, then, could these issues concerning the elimination of exchange rate risk be implemented? Is the government planning to take action that will lead to Poland's accession [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the euro area? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that you have noticed the problem of export of goods by Polish entrepreneurs, because currently of over 2 million companies in Poland only 17 thousand. He's involved in export abroad. Unfortunately, you did not notice the most important, i.e. the question of trusting our entrepreneurs in the Polish legal system. In your rule of law, we are dealing with exceptional legal instability, which is financially damaging to many entrepreneurs, especially the smaller ones, who are more difficult to deal with. The best evidence for this instability of the law was yesterday when, in fact, within 3.5 hours, you changed the law concerning the Supreme Court, the primary court in Poland. Poles will not invest their hard-earned money if they are not sure about the legal future of their company. Only a stable and transparent law is a driving force for economic development. That's the first problem. The second problem is that PiS is constantly flagging its opposition to the European Union. Even the president called the Union an imaginary community. Is this how you want to encourage Poles to export their goods to this imaginary community? On the one hand, you encourage exports and on the other you convince Poles that we are self-sufficient and we do not need the European Union at all. Then make up your mind about something. Minister! The countries of the European Union are the largest importers of goods from Poland. Polish entrepreneurs need a different program than the one you propose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They need a programme: a fashion for stable law and respect for the European Union. Poles will choose their own way of doing things and they will do well, let us only give them freedom of choice and the stability of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u120	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The mode of export - a very important direction, this has not yet been done in Poland so well. [[What if it wasn't?]] Internationalisation is important for our economy and the rule of law and justice has now done a great deal about it. Companies may benefit from the national operational programmes which enable them to do so. The government wants to help medium-sized and small companies promote Polish brands by creating institutions in other countries and thank you very much for that. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Do we know the number of medium-sized and small companies that have joined internationalisation programs? And do we know the number of people willing to benefit from state aid? And the next question is how does it arise in the context of the statement: Are there financial data, promotional data related to helping Polish entrepreneurs? I also have a question related to my Silesian region: What actions are being taken in this region, very important for the development of the economy in Poland, precisely in the context of fashion for export? Opening up the Polish economy to the world is very important and for this the Ministry, as well as the Minister, thank you very much. I would also like to point out that we now also have the so-called. dual education, a combination of innovative thinking with an economic perspective, and I know that this field is very strongly promoted abroad. We have our wonderful universities that interact with other world universities and work together to develop good patterns in the economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In preparing for today's debate, I spoke to a small exporter who mentioned two milestones of his company's development, namely the entry into the European Union in 2004 and the entry into the Schengen area in 2007. And he said that he was waiting for this third very important moment, namely the entry into the euro area, because the exchange rate risk is what he spends in his sleep when he signs contracts in the medium to long term, in particular when it comes to the long-term development of the company. That should sound good, I'm glad my friend picked it up, 'cause it's actually 60%. exports so far this is the euro area. The second point I wanted to talk about is the point of information for exporters. Namely, these points still function on the basis of an agreement signed with the Ministry of Economy in 2015, so what happens has a longer tradition and experience. There is concern about the regional dimension of this network, namely whether these investor and exporter service centres will operate after 2020. How does the Minister see this issue? Because in the V stream: State support you talk about information points for exporters, mentioning that you want special economic zones to play a leading role here. I would like to say that for the time being regional development is a matter for the marshals' offices and should not be overlooked. I also address these words to you as a councilman of the Opolskie Voivodeship. I think the OCRG's economic development centre will give you more detailed information on this. I would also like to express my satisfaction that you are interested in this issue, because here the classic person or person who develops the whole idea is Tadeusz Kościński, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your friend from the ministry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The "Mode for Export" programme is a really difficult topic. So far, there have been many export support programmes, but their effects have been mediocre, because there were only 17,000 companies out of 2 million. exporting companies. What mistakes were made, and what were the reasons for such poor results? Minister! So-called II stream: Build competence in the field of export. There is talk of inappropriate education at Polish universities of specialists in foreign markets. Minister, I have a question related to this: were the people responsible for the development of exports working in Polish embassies, consulates, trade missions also poorly prepared, because they were educated in these universities, so we had such poor results, i.e. less than 1% companies that exported our products? What is the Polish Government going to do to improve our representatives working in different countries to improve, increase our exports? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Internationalisation is subject to exchangeable goods. Businesses operating abroad are the subject of this activity. Electric power is such a good thing. In the light of the winter package, better market integration is envisaged, especially in regional exchanges. The production of electricity at the lowest possible price and the ability to supply it to the whole country is also a political issue: it is a guarantee of the sovereignty of the country. However, as a result of government action, the lack of rational energy mix, our position in the region as a competitive energy producer in the regional market is being dramatically weakened. The increase in electricity prices over the period e.g. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In 2019 we expect another growth, about 30%. This reduces our export capacity and increases openness to imports of cheaper energy from Germany, Sweden or the Czech Republic. In 2018 there is an increase in exports of electricity in relation to exports from 2017 by 40%. This process has been going on for three years. There is an increase in imports to reduce exports. We are becoming a net importer and this process will deepen. Since 2022, an increasing generation capacity deficit is expected. All the more surprising is the lightness with which the government does not make decisions, e.g. on the ZE PAK Explorer, but it is also reluctant for renewable energy sources. Meanwhile, in wind electricity auctions, the price of energy becomes competitive and is below 200 PLN per MWh for 15 years, approaching current wholesale prices, for example. in Germany and is today lower than wholesale prices in Poland by about 70 PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence the question: Why is the government defensive, causing a dramatic rise in energy prices and causing electricity exports to decrease and imports to increase? The export option certainly does not apply to electricity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Joann Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u129	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The export mode programme will be based on seven streams. As we read, these are: building a knowledge base on Polish exports, building competence in export, finding a contractor, financing and export insurance, which is the insurance, state support in promotion, operating activities and communication and information. And I am missing, Minister, the preparation of the labour market here in Poland. What measures have been or will be taken by the current government to support the labour market? If the scheme involves doubling the number of exporters to 30,000. In 2030, this ministry should have knowledge as long as employment increases. Do you have any forecasts? We're already meeting with the problem of lack of hands to work today. So far, the PiS government is doing nothing to make the labour market more employees. On the contrary, the reduction in the retirement age has resulted in a greater outflow of workers from employment. In a number of cases, the "500+'programme encouraged women in particular to quit their jobs. The additional costs imposed by the government on employers, most recently linked to employee capital plans, could result in a reduction in employment. The constantly rising fuel prices certainly do not help the labour market. You can answer that in Poland there are a lot of Ukrainian citizens working. Yes, but the conditions for obtaining a work permit are not easy to meet. Maybe we should take a look at what's going on with our neighbors. The German Government is to decide in mid-December on a draft immigration law that will facilitate the influx of workers from outside the European Union, including Ukraine. Aren't you afraid that the Polish labour market will be unattractive to workers from Ukraine? Moreover, the growing tolerance of current power for racist and xenophobic behaviour makes Poland a country that is not safe for foreigners, including Ukrainian citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also stress that the creation of law in the way that this is done in this term of office of the Sejm causes a loss of security and stability for entrepreneurs and employers. So how will you take care of the labour market...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u130	Thank you very much. Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u131	...if you assume that the export mode is going to be a success for the government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u132	Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u133	Dear Marshal, Minister! I wanted to remain within energy raw materials and energy issues and ask about the increasing import to Poland of not only hard coal but also mainly gas, because speaking of a certain balance in foreign trade, it is necessary to think about not only increasing exports, but also to a reasonable extent affecting the quantity of imports. If we compare the scale of imports of natural gas from the eastern side, what was one of the messages that now governs that we will be independent of the supply of natural gas from the east, then when we compare 2015 and the current year, all indications are that imports of gas from the eastern side will increase by 2 billion. It's very, very much, at least I think so. At the same time, please note that the operation of national gas is steadily falling from national resources. This is a lack of consistency and some action in this area should be taken so that this degree of independence not only verbally, but also formally changes. At the same time, when we think about this independence from external supply of energy raw materials, we hear communications from gas companies that we are signing new contracts for the supply of gas from other directions, especially liquefied gas. Of course, we are verbally convinced that this contract delivered in the following years, we are talking about 22 or 24 years, will be on more favourable terms than on the east side as regards price conditions. And here's the question of whether it really is. Because my faith, given what happened in 2016, and the signing of a contract with Gazprom when it is said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the minister has no time to analyse the terms of this contract, and the consequences of the 8 billion Poles paid more for gas are quite small. Do you control how, I do not ask for details, these supplies of liquefied gas ordered to Poland will take place? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, the economic diplomacy you mentioned is not only fashion, it is primarily thought out, consistent and antical work. Is the export mode programme complementary to pre-promoted, promoted programmes focused on selected markets that were selected by the former Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as promising markets for Poland under the "Go Africa" programme, "Go China" or "Go Iran" programme, or is it de facto eliminating these programmes? I would like to ask for the balance of these programmes - it may be in writing - and I would like to ask the question: What budget is earmarked for the implementation of this programme, for the promotion of staff and office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u136	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland will complete 2018 with exports of EUR 219.6 billion. It's a record score. Last year, EUR 206 billion was officially achieved. However, trade wars and oil prices mean that the European Union's economy, which is the main recipient of our exports, has weakened. This is an important argument for the Polish government to encourage our entrepreneurs to export to new markets so that we are not so dependent on the European market. This is a difficult task, because of 2 million companies in Poland only about 17 thousand. entrepreneurs export their products. The export mode programme is a real action to analyse all initiatives, programmes and pro-export efforts, to describe the market, to identify directions of export markets and to educate entrepreneurs. I have a question for the Minister, and please answer it. What long-term benefits for the Polish economy will the implementation of the "Mode for Export" programme bring? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u138	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I would like to ask for the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Ewa Malik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few words, I will refer to what was going on in this room today, but you will also allow me to thank you. I would like to thank, first of all, Minister Emilewicz, as well as all the employees of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology for their great commitment to the work on diagnosis and verification - very well, as you can see - all the adverse phenomena and problems concerning the internationalisation of the Polish economy. The Minister discussed in detail the activities not only of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, but also of all the institutions cooperating with it. As we have heard, the resort has engaged on many fronts of the fight to open up to international markets, has made really incredible progress in this work, which is a very concrete proof of the opening of 50 new foreign business offices, which help in various ways in promoting Polish products and in engaging Polish capital in the world. These are, of course, successes. These successes are also the result of consultation, extensive consultation with entrepreneurs. The expansion programme prepared in the Ministry provides, as we have heard, inter-ministerial activities with participation of a wide range of actors, from local governments to chambers of commerce and industry... As far as cooperation is concerned, the Minister made it clear that it was a very broad cooperation, including with institutions that help to solve these problems. I mean BGK, KUKE, PAIH, PFR, as well as universities, universities involved in identifying this problem. Thank you very much for the number of questions addressed to the representative of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Certainly, they will not remain unanswered. Thank you all for a fruitful discussion, which will contribute to a wider view of the problem and further discussion among experts on Polish exports in the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen! With fashion you can make a sustainable trend towards acquiring new markets for Polish entrepreneurs. This is a comment to Maria Janyska. The export mode is simply the title of the project that the Ministry is carrying out. Mr Gryglas rightly suggests to the staff of the Ministry that they constantly consult their intentions on today's subject of current information with entrepreneurs. And this is an extremely good point, which I think all Members in this House are very much in favour of together. This is undoubtedly the way to solve many problems regarding export of the Polish product to external markets. Allow me not to refer to Mrs Chmiel's comments, because this was not the voice of the programme that the Government of Law and Justice is implementing on this issue. I would just like to say that the Government of Law and Justice greatly respects the law as such, and as far as economic law is concerned, it is constantly improving it, which translates into huge economic successes of Poland. [[It's a joke.]] I would also like to say that the Government of Law and Justice greatly respects the institutions of the European Union as a representative of a Member State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Stop lying to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u140	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology, Mr Marcin Ociepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u141	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased with this debate, and all these questions are welcome, even though they are intertwined with some political comments, that they are indeed an attempt to politicalise this subject. However, I see in your questions a deep concern for the Polish economy to develop so that Polish companies can expand abroad as many as possible. And so I come to these questions, to all the comments you have made. It's very optimistic, because that means we have unity here. [[Yes, sir.]] At least in this area there is an area where Polish entrepreneurs can count on the Polish state, the Polish parliament, on all political forces that take care of their needs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the answer to the question of where the program came from, why there is such a program as it is financed, because the co-authors of this program, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, are entrepreneurs. We invited them to answer questions about what they lack, what needs to be improved, how we could help them as a Polish country, not replace them, because we do not have the ambition to write business plans for someone. We have no ambition to expand for someone. [[I'll tell you more, you couldn't.]] We are here to facilitate business activity at all levels, including in this dimension of foreign expansion. And what did the entrepreneurs tell us? That companies face a lack of capital and human resources, a lack of knowledge of market access conditions and foreign languages, that they have concerns about risks. Ladies and gentlemen! What I mentioned earlier, as mentioned by the honourable Member, concerns the lack of capital, the issue of risk concerns. The answer is KUKE, the insurance system, the answer is the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, the answer is foreign trade offices, but it is not thought to be some group of sublime diplomats who are to participate only in nice, sympathetic banquets in foreign embassies of countries. They're supposed to be specialists, managers who can find a common language with business. This is the role of foreign trade offices, which not only Poland has set up. The experience of Great Britain, the Czech Republic, in another formula, but in a similar philosophy of the United States, shows that this is exactly the kind of economic diplomacy we need. We need such economic diplomats, such foreign offices, trade offices, which will be partners in the choice of language, the choice of tools for entrepreneurs, which will speak with one voice. It doesn't deny that we need diplomacy in the embassy itself. We need trade counsels, we need full awareness from the diplomatic service. In a professional way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs responds to this demand. There have been a lot of questions, and I'd be happy to answer them. Of course, we need to work on the awareness of entrepreneurs, because the Polish market, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, is quite a large market. For many entrepreneurs, it is a sufficient market to obtain satisfaction from doing business. In this sense, it is such a trap of this average development, before which countries similar to Poland stand. We're trying to get past it by mobilizing entrepreneurs for this expansion by making it easier for them. If they are afraid of lack of capital, they can reach the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. If they are afraid of risk, they can insure themselves under KUKE. If they're afraid of knowing the market on the spot, they can reach the foreign sales office. It all creates a coherent whole. This is all what businessmen have been waiting for. Ladies and gentlemen! We'll be happy to share the data we use. All data, if there is any doubt, are made available, also the sources of this data. They are widely available. If you feel this unsatisfied, we will be very happy to pass it on, including the OECD data we use. I cordially encourage you to look at this data. Detailed questions that have emerged here. What markets are we diagnosing? That's what I was talking about before. This is definitely Africa, this is Asia, this is North America. Ladies and gentlemen, exports to the United States increased by 15% this year. Last year it was twenty-six percent. It shows that the potential is great. The fact that the Polish-American Chamber of Commerce was established there, that foreign trade offices work very well there, brings very concrete results. Do we believe in the role of these regional investor and exporter service centres? Absolutely. I told him myself. As a self-government officer, I know very well how important they play, so I stress the role of these local structures, this experience on the ground. We stress this all the time, we are aware that in order for foreign investment to take place in a given region, but also that there is such a sense of support for expansion abroad, it is necessary to create an ecosystem that is created by a state, a local government, economic chambers or a wider understanding of economic self-government, universities. I think that everyone has a role to play here, and that will enable us to achieve synergies. Yes, as far as the east wall is concerned, there's a lot of potential here. Among other things, in the Act on Special Economic Zones, which created one economic zone from Poland, we sew these additional points, additional support for those who want to invest on the eastern wall; these investments on the eastern wall are additionally rewarded. We'd be happy to continue. Yes, we also diagnose that bilateral cooperation, e.g. Belarus has great potential in terms of economic issues. Thus, on Monday we will host the Polish-Belarus business forum organized by us. I think it shows that we are turning words into actions and that really we are very well involved in what Polish entrepreneurs expect, but also those who say that the eastern wall requires such special attention, special support. Ladies and gentlemen! The process of creating foreign trade offices continues. I think we can say, on the example of the United States, that this is working out and that we will continue to move in this direction in order to achieve synergies. Of course, you have to have imagination, i.e. It must be understood that other business conditions, other export conditions are in EU countries, in countries where democratic systems operate, where we have the same cultural area, and this is different in Africa or Asia. We must also be aware that somewhere else it works or there is a need to have a diplomatic passport, and elsewhere it even interferes, because it says that the nature of the relationship is not a business one, but a political one, a state one. This is not what economic relations are all about, this is not what trade is all about, I am talking especially about this cultural area where Poland is. Ladies and gentlemen! As for Russia, as imports from Russia are growing, I will say that trade with Russia is growing, but exports to Russia are growing faster than imports from Russia. So these are very hard and concrete data. [[What about the amounts?]] [[But it's about coal. It's coal.]] Taiwan is absolutely diagnosed by us as one of the key directions of economic expansion with high economic potential. Of course, these issues, as you know very well, are sensitive because of political circumstances, but as far as economic and scientific cooperation is concerned, there are no obstacles to it, and it is conducted quite intensively. Suffice it to say that in two weeks there will be another business forum, this time dedicated to the FinTech industry. The representative of the Polish state will be keynote speaker at this business forum. But it's not just that. Regular meetings, forums, in Poland and Taiwan are held, which testify to intensive bilateral cooperation. As far as food is concerned, as I mentioned, under this programme: Marka Polski Gospodarki - Brand, the food sector is simply included as the one with great potential. Of course, we are trying to promote this. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the euro is concerned, I am convinced that as soon as most Poles express their willingness to join the euro area, there will be a majority in Parliament who will vote on it. There is no political will of Poles, there is no will of the majority of our society, hence this subject needs to be moved to a completely different political debate. First of all, I ask that you, who are in favour of joining the euro area, convince Poles, our countrymen, to do so. [[Who's "the"? Isn't that what you're responsible for?]] I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we are trying to increase exports not only of goods but also of services. He is growing and has a very optimal character for us. So far it has also been quite neglected: we have paid attention to the goods, forgetting the services. Specific targets. Today we have 17.5 thousand. companies that expand abroad. By 2030, we want to almost double this figure - to 30,000. As regards Poland's participation in export [[♪ The bell ♪]] global, we want to increase it from 1.2 to 1.5, including increasing the share of advanced technologies in this export from 18.5% up to 15%. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What I'm saying is that the program at the end is rated by entrepreneurs. How do they judge? Through the mass presence in the economic forums that we organize, both bilateral ones and such as PAIH Expo - they take part in all the programs we have prepared - and by simply increasing Polish exports, the presence and activity of Polish entrepreneurs abroad increases. That's the measure we care about. That's the measure we're paying attention to. This is a measure of success, which will be a success not only of the Polish government. This will be the success of Polish entrepreneurs. This will be the success of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Incessant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u142	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 23 hours 12 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Prints No. 2995 and 3020). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we considered a government bill amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services from Print No. 2995. The project itself is a compact project, it contains only three articles, but there was quite a long discussion about this project. Two threads were raised here in a special way. The first formal thread concerned whether the bill submitted had passed through a public consultation. That's what the Members of the opposition raised. They thought that this project should go through a very broad public consultation. It was one thread. And the second topic was semantic, whether to maintain the level of the tax scale of 23% and 8% and a flat-rate tax rate on return of 7% it is to keep the tax at the same level, whether it is an increase. Since this tax scale has been in force for 8 years since 1 January 2011, maintaining it under this bill for the following years is a maintenance of the level of taxes, not an increase, and there has been quite a long dispute about it. As a result, the Minister's justification has emerged that a reduction in the tax scale would have serious implications for the budget. The draft state budget has already been presented to the High House and revenue on value added tax of about PLN 170 billion was, of course, calculated on the basis of the applicable tax scale. If the tax was theoretically reduced by 1 percentage point, not by 1%, but by 1 percentage point, which results in a tax reduction by more than 4%, exactly by 4.4% , counting the linear link between the tax scale and tax revenues, with such a linear link the loss of revenue in the state budget would amount to over PLN 7 billion. Since the government is implementing this and has introduced certain expenditures into the budget for the implementation of its programme, mainly this social policy programme, a reduction of 1 percentage point of this tax scale would make it necessary to reconstruct the draft state budget. Therefore, following the discussion, the committee voted in favour of this draft law, and on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that this draft law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u144	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor. [[There is no Member.]] There is no Member. Okay, I mean. That's not good. In that case, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u145	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We do not agree with the report submitted and we do not agree with the arguments on the basis of which this proposal was submitted. First of all, no consultation. The required procedure for submitting a government project indicates that consultation with the social side is required. The State in the explanatory memorandum and in the impact assessment indicated point 5: the project was not the subject of consultation. Amazing, amazing. Asking questions related... Oh, about the consultation. It's a basic question. Mr. Marshal, I would ask you to talk to Marshal Kuchciński about how you directed this bill, which contains such a formal flaw that it is not told to citizens that it is taking 7 billion from their pockets - today this is the first time that has come from the government, i.e. the rapporteur of the committee has said what the costs of this project are - and he is not consulting this project. This is the first case that needs clarification that requires suspension. You can't get the government used to sloppy legislation. Secondly, the issue of consequences of PLN 7 billion in the budget. We disagree because the budget is at such a stage that it can be changed, it can be reconstructed. An example is the increase for police officers, and here the money must be found, although it was after the date when the bill was submitted to Parliament. Third, the argument against this is the sample. Semantics enchantment, i.e. that it won't cost, because it's not an increase in tax. That's not true, that's not true, and that's a terrible lie. 31 December 2018 ends with an increased rate of VAT and these reduced rates for some time and is due on 1 January and 1 January to be increased. This bill says it's an increase. Our opposition is raised by the third act and an illusory promise there, which can be said in a very short enough project. You're saying that like a relationship... It is about the provisions in the Public Finance Act related to Article. 1 on the fact that when the debt-to-GDP ratio is 43% by the end of the year, it will be possible to reduce the tax. No, you didn't, because you didn't take it into account. The State did not show this in the impact assessment. I'm saying you're magical, you're lying. According to the impact assessment, for the next 10 years you are not going to, you are not showing that such a relationship will be and that Poles will pay less, you are not showing that you will reduce taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not interested in your expenses. You just take the Poles out of your pocket and tell them you're giving someone something. If you take 7 billion dollars from Poles for the current of 2 billion, then tell them that Poles know that you are pulling this change from their pockets. Scandal, scandal! And this mode, impact assessment, no consultation. No consultation - once again I am speaking to your marshal, knowing his sensitivity to the imposition of additional taxes. This is an additional tax of PLN 7 billion. With regard to the procedure, we asked, we called for a break and explained the lack of consultation. You have voted forcefully that consultations are unnecessary, confirming everyone in bad legislation, in drawing money from Poles. We can't agree to that. These are the basic elements that confirm that this is a bad project, draining the pockets of Poles, imposing an additional tax. You won't be enchanted with semanticism. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club does not agree to such conduct. Since it is so good, it is necessary to give Poles the freedom to dispose of money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are requesting that this project be rejected for the second time, giving the Members of the Law and Justice a chance to think and finally work hard on the projects that are being submitted to the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Blażej Parda, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I should start by saying that I would also like to file a motion to reject this law at second reading. I'd like a record, please. Nothing's changed at the committee meeting. The bill is the same shape as it was yesterday. Yesterday, the first reading took place and I gave an in-depth analysis of the situation in which we are in. This bill really... We predicted that she would be. A few months ago, we presented a project to reduce VAT rates to 22% and 7% as Kukiz. And we have just received a motion from Law and Justice to reject it. This project was rejected. This, of course, has already announced that today's bill will be filed. It's a pity that at the last moment and so late, because this is actually the last moment you can do it. It is the end of November, the tax increase cannot be carried out in December, which is why in this one meeting within 2 days such an important and so huge law - huge from a financial point of view, because we are talking here about PLN 7 billion, and it can actually be even PLN 10 billion, which will be pulled out of the wallets of Poles - it will be converted so quickly by the Sejm, and probably very few people will even know about it. For a week in public media, we can hear that VAT will be reduced. Members of the Law and Justice shall make information available on their social media accounts that VAT will be reduced, only that there is a problem. This VAT, which is to be reduced, is not really reduced as much as it is harmonised. And we're talking about one matrix that's just starting to work in 2020. But it was simply intended to cover this project, today and yesterday, which will probably be voted out after 2 days. It's just that Poles do not find out that you're pulling 10 billion out of the next number of years. Indeed, the project states that there will be no budgetary impact for at least 10 consecutive years. It means that really this project is such a beautiful story about that if something happens out there, maybe someday it'll be better. The truth is, it's a little bit of a promise given to a son who goes to school: we'll buy you a bike when you have all sixes at school. It's just that he's a three-year-old and he's never gonna have those sixes. And similarly, we could describe this law, which takes into account some threshold. If there is such a super situation, then we will actually return to these rates, only that, first, this situation may never happen, and secondly, even if we approach these thresholds, you can write a new law and in 2 days these thresholds will be increased. This law is really only needed to cancel, annul the previous law and extend this period of higher taxes, which is, of course, very sad for us. In summary, the VAT increase to 23% and 8% will cost all Poles about PLN 10 billion, possibly even more. We, Kukiz,15, strongly oppose this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe the facts first. Let us recall what it looked like in 2015 when Prime Minister Beata Szydło was running an election campaign and all the promises were to be fulfilled. [[Paulina Hennig-Kloska plays from the phone a fragment of the speech by Prime Minister Beata Szydło: We want to introduce a new tax law based on three Ps: development, transparent, simple. VAT reduction to 22%, deduction...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Liar!]] This was the case in 2015 today is 3 years later. It's 2018. Prime Minister Beata Szydło is obviously not in the Chamber and does not account for the promises made to voters in the election campaign. And the money that the Members of this speaker are talking about, which is included in the impact assessment, is 7 billion zlotys, which each year give revenue to the budget, is citizens' money. The same ones that Prime Minister Beata Szydło promised to give to them in the 2015 election campaign. You're unbelievable, you're not fulfilling your electoral promises - that's exactly how you sum up the bill, whatever you write in it. For 3 years you have been running the country and for 3 years you have been extending higher rates of tax, although you thought it was a promise which - later included in the exposé - Prime Minister Beata Szydło - was to be fulfilled as soon as possible. And as I said, PLN 7 billion Poles pay every day in their daily shopping: by shopping in shops, using various goods and services from the export of impurities to the hairdressing service. You owe me the expensive stuff we have in the shops today. That's 1%. tax - and I will calculate it for you at every step - is 50 PLN paid from each computer worth 5 thousand. zł, this is 500 zł extra tax on the car bought for 50,000. zł, that's 5,000. zł extra tax, which we pay by buying an apartment worth 500,000. zł. And so every service, every day: food, clothing, clothing are charged with this one additional tax rate. You have no right to tell Poles that whatever you give them, because all the promises you make, the money you give them, you really pull out of their pockets. And if you count all the thirty-few taxes you've put into the tax system over the last three years, that's billions of zloty and 3% deficit. You couldn't fit without that money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u150	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have only 2 minutes, and therefore I am unable to calculate all the taxes and charges that the State has introduced in the last 3 years, because this would really take at least 10 minutes. This is another tax that you are charging to citizens. You say that the situation of public finances is so great and that the genius in charge of the financial sector is so big that it has caused us to have a great situation - the best situation in Europe - and we do not know what to do with money. If it's so good, I'm sorry, then why are we raising taxes? The fact that you have entered certain thresholds that are practically unrealistic to meet in the near future... It was only a matter of not presenting a law that clearly states: from 1 January 2019 we raise your taxes, we raise VAT to 23 and 8% Because saying you're not picking up, you're prolonging your period, it's just a big scam. If this bill had not been passed, if it had not been in force after the vote - because everything indicates that you are going to vote - the VAT would have been 22 and 7%. This law therefore raises VAT rates. I'm not going back to that, I asked the Prime Minister during my last speech to come out and tell me if you're lying now or lying when you were running for voters. [[Once and now.]] And at least... after you've won this election, why tell such nonsense in the exposé, things that are simply impossible because you just have to have the money. Why? Because you've mastered a certain system that is, I think, brilliant in my own way. Because you buy voters' votes so they can vote for you for our money. This is, I'll admit, brilliant. I'll be honest with you, you guys should patent this somewhere. Because I admit that when I see that my money is insulting me on TV because I pay my subscription and we all pay our subscription, and they insult us, and right now you're buying votes for my money... This is just ridiculous. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Modern, I request that this project be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u152	Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would also like to say that we will not support this bill, which increases the tax on goods and services, VAT. Speaking of whether or not the committee's report on this matter is characterised: it is known that the bill has been passed - the project - because the majority of the parliament is the Law and Justice, and that's where it comes from, not the other outcome. But, Mr President, the reporter of this project, I would like you not to lie to reality. We can't talk about this not being a raise. I will use this example because I also had it in mind, my colleague Meysztowicz reported it, if this project had not existed, if it had not been there, the tax rates would have been 22 and 8%. So they'd be reduced. This law increases by this 1 percentage point and even if you wanted to show some good will, it is a proposal to lower these rates with certain indicators - we are talking about this public debt to GDP - we would apply it from 1 January and not once there. On the other hand, new tax rates are clearly introduced from 1 January. And you can't lie to reality, it's an additional burden on all Poles, because with every product we have this 1% More. And I would like to point out that, in fact, when it comes to running households, today the costs are very high, and this is due not only to the rise in inflation from day to day, but also to the overall burdens that you have imposed over the three years. Therefore, if we see the prospect of electricity costs, it is really difficult to find any positive justification here to support such a solution. So my club will be against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission, considering the bill after first reading, held a discussion on 21 November. The discussion concerned mainly the effects of temporary maintenance - I repeat: temporary maintenance... [[Voice from the room: Tax raises.]] ... existing VAT rates after 1 January 2019 and no public consultation. [[VAT raise.]] We uphold on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice the position, supported by the Legal Office's opinion, that the lack of public consultation does not stop the legislative process, and that the procedure adopted, consisting in behaviour - I repeat, as you like to do: maintaining - the current rates by law, does not indicate a legislative disadvantage. I know... [[Voice from the room: raise.]] ...and all Poles know that tax increases nobody likes that everyone likes tax cuts, so you are using such irresponsible rhetoric here. And those who led to an increase in VAT in 2011 and then supported it today shed tears over the fate of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, the rates in force... [[But you're raising it.]] ...tonight will be maintained after January 1st... [[Game in the O.R.]] The rates in force today... [[You're lying.]] ...will be maintained after 1 January 2019. [[It's a lie.]] ...until the indicators adopted in the act... [[Voice from the room: Until the end of PiS times.]] ...will allow them to be reduced, with a full guarantee for the stability of the state's finances. And this is a very responsible approach. This is what we expect from the government and this is what we support. Well, I ask you, as regards the impact of the current VAT rates, which will be temporarily maintained after 1 January 2019, on the situation of the Polish family, are the official data of the Central Statistical Office - I refer the opposition to get a close look at them before telling lies from this speaker - they clearly indicate that there has been a clear improvement in the income situation of households in the last 3 years. According to official data, the situation of households in Poland has improved. The monthly disposable income of the population per person, i.e. such income, which remains after deduction from personal income taxes and other compulsory payments, increased in 2017 by as much as 15% compared to 2015 and amounted to PLN 1598 against PLN 1420 for your government in 2014. The increase in revenue also allowed for an increase in expenditure. Analyze the expenses of the family, the households at that time. Expenditure has also increased. In addition, savings have increased, which is a very desirable phenomenon from various points of view, and family safety, and the development of the economy. And income growth thanks to the appropriate economic policy of the government, social policy of the government, also tax policy is a guarantee not only of maintaining but also of improving the material situation of families in this type of tax policy. Therefore, when rental income increases, when self-employment income increases, when social benefits increase, when farmers' income also increases - social benefits both from social security and others, accounting for as much as 31% of the total income of the family, benefits to which the State attaches such importance and which have so clearly increased - when income is so clearly increased, maintaining the tax temporarily after 1 January will not cause a disaster, whose sense, impression the state would simply cause. This is clearly rhetoric calculated on the political successes of the state, irresponsible, not having anything to do with facts and with a substantive approach. Well, the law states that the rate of VAT will be reduced when one of the measures referring to the relationship of public debt [[♪ The bell ♪]] net - net, and some countries do not distinguish - to GDP it will be 43%. And how does that work right now? At the moment, it's 45%. The year before that was 47%. So let's notice that in three years this debt is clearly decreasing. Then there's a chance...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u156	Thank you, Member. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u157	...that in the next two years we will achieve these indicators that will allow us to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...really lower the stakes... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u158	Thank you very much, Member. I'm sorry, but time's up. We have to follow the rules. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u159	High Izbo! I've got a few seconds left. I've been trying to listen to Mrs. Gabrielle and for five minutes... [[I'm Mrs. Gabrielle to you.]] Mrs Gabriela. ...I've tried to understand and I've understood about it, that the income situation of people is so good, so great, the indicators are so high that we have to keep this higher tax, because it's gonna hit their head with soda, they're gonna have too much money and they're just gonna spend it wrong. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u160	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the questions. Question time - 2 minutes. If any of you would like to join us again, please. It's a very important project. You are beginning Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u161	Question to the rapporteur: Did he ask the Marshal of the Sejm to submit and prepare the draft without consultation for further legislation? 7 billion, 8 billion PLN out of the pockets of Poles you take out and say: we do you pleasure. Thank you for your pleasure. Mrs Masłowska's arguments I am trying to show. Since it is so good, Commissioner, how much inflation was in 2014 and was there a deflation in 2015? How much is inflation today? How much did butter prices go up today? Do you go to the store and see how Poles... Do you, as an economist, who is trying to tell us things here, know that most of this tax will be paid by people with the lowest income, because they 95 money spends on purchases of goods and services that are beset? And they enjoy you. Minister, now honesty and answer for 100 points: If this project were not, would the taxes be lower or higher? That is the question, because you are trying to turn around and tell all Poles: you do not understand. Did you ask Kowalski? None. No one asked Prime Minister Morawiecki to submit this project, whether he wanted to decide what he would spend it on, how he would receive it, how it would be in his pocket. Don't give, don't divide or replace the citizens' decisions with your decisions. And one last thing. Minister, did you speak to the Prime Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] with Mrs. Beata Szydło, and when and when will the promise finally be realized? I would like to present this project ad Kalendas Graecas to the Minister, Mrs Butterwska. Never...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u162	Thank you, Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u163	...you don't want to lower this tax rule... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u165	... VAT. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u166	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the draft amendment. According to the figures of the Ministry of Finance, what are the figures on which the return of primary VAT rates depends at the end of 2015 and, above all, when, according to current forecasts, they will reach the required level? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u168	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The head of the National Bank of Poland a few days ago compared the Polish economy with a speeding locomotive. In your election programme in 2014, you said that in order to increase revenue in the budget, tax, VAT rates should be reduced. You have full power in the Seym. Then why don't you want to cut VAT to 22%? and 7% Like you promised during the election campaign? If the economic situation is as great and we drive like this locomotive, then why haven't you continued to lower your VAT, just keep the rates 23% and 8% ? Where are the resources? If our country is developing so well, where are these measures to reduce VAT? I will tell you what needs to be done so that VAT can actually be reduced and that Poles actually enjoy lower VAT. First of all, stop crashing government limousines because that's what millions go for. Secondly, stop subsidising Fr. Rydzyk's foundation because that's what millions of state money is coming for. Thirdly, stop hiring Misiewiczs and their families in the Treasury companies, because they also make huge money there. If you are looking for savings, start with yourself, and VAT for Poles would certainly be reduced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u170	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a bill which in fact is a perfect example of what Law and Justice does with Poland, does with truth, does with patriotism. Because once again, the Law and Justice lie to Poles. He lies, cheats and brutally uses the fact that Poles do not have time to read into the details of projects because they have to work - entrepreneurs have to earn, workers have to work to keep your brutally reaching into their pockets the country. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that it is true that 31 December was to be the last day when the increased VAT rates apply. Unfortunately, this machination, this law that we are now working on, the Law and Justice raises VAT once again, because it was the same as before, [[Applause]] You have also introduced a law that raises VAT from the new year. Mrs Masłowska, you come here and say that household expenditure has increased. Of course they have increased because Poles have to spend more, because these dozens of taxes have increased the cost of living, so they spend more. You are talking about rising savings, but if the growth dynamics of savings would be in Poland if it were not for those taxes that stifle entrepreneurship that stifle savings. So if you come in here and tell me, tell me the truth. Why Poles, why aren't companies investing? Because they're afraid of you because you're running a policy that's fiscal, lack of constancy, you're just doing Poles to apologize, and I'm sorry for saying that, but that's what it looks like in practice. Entrepreneurs don't have [[♪ The bell ♪]] sure what the law will be the next day. I want to ask the Minister if it is true that this solution is an increase in taxes from 1 January 2019, which will result in you pulling Poles out of their pockets...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u172	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u173	...additional PLN 8 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u175	You're welcome, Minister... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u176	Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u177	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question, Minister, because although Mrs. Butterwska gave us a lecture here... [[Unreliable.]] ...but in justification, and this is a government project, it is said that it will happen when the economy improves. Well, we hear the state of the economy - well, wonderful, gold supposedly, incredibly wonderful - while the indicators proposed in the project do not fit in, do not allow us to introduce this principle anymore and not to increase or reduce, to correct VAT rates. And I would like to ask, then, when will this be achieved, this adjustment mechanism that stabilizes the expenditure rule when it is excluded. When will this 43 percent net government debt-to-GDP ratio really occur? And there's the second part: and the sum of the annual differences between the value of the nominal result ratio to gross domestic product and the medium-term budgetary objective level will be less than -0,6%. Minister, my question is short. When will that be? When will it be? I'm sure there's some simulations. Just in the justification of the project for the next 10 years you do not foresee this, hence my short question: When will this happen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The rhetorical question: What must be done to ensure that the basic tax paid by Poles, i.e. VAT, falls to 22 or 7% ? The answer is clear: the PiS must be removed from power. You put up a white flag with this project, saying, "In our governments, this tax will never be reduced." Never, because the ceiling you're proposing is 43%. net public debt in relation to gross domestic product is not available to your governments. What's the point? Why do you need this 1%? ? That's 1%. this is 300 PLN in the budget of the average 4-person household - 300 PLN. You need it to waste your money. The equally wasteful government was not in Poland. The revenue of the state budget is rising, including VAT, and you are still short of money. We're at the peak of the economy, basically beyond the peak of the economy. Prospect that growth in Poland will return to 4.5% She's far away right now. Next year, you're planning 3.7%. GDP. Talking about this rule is just eyewashing. It's just an escape from the PiS to get away from the annual beating in connection with the issue of a reduction, a return to the rate of 22 and 7%. . You'll be able to talk... [[Right.]] ...because we've accepted that rule, but this rule is just fiction and eye soap. Departure from more than 50% to 43% This relationship that was mentioned here is unattainable for your governments, because one thing you can do is waste money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u180	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, as I sometimes listen to this propaganda of Law and Justice, which is pouring out of the public media, as I hear the propaganda presented by the leading politicians of Law and Justice, I was convinced that today you would bring us a bill that will reduce taxes from tomorrow, because since it is so good, it would seem that you would have to do so. I would like to point out that we had already tabled a draft law a few months ago, which introduced, restored the rates of 22 and 7%. since 1 June 2018, because we believed in this propaganda. Unfortunately, it turns out that, like everything you're talking about, it's just not true. And I have a question for the Minister because, frankly, for me, the psychic statement in the explanatory statement was that it would have no effect on the micro-entrepreneurs. The fact that you didn't consult, it's a classic, because where people could criticize you, it's better not to touch the subject, but explain it to me, because I think you're a person who's competent enough to explain it to me: if a micro-entrepreneur is not a VAT payer and to each item he buys, he has to pay 1% more. more, in this arrangement will pay 23 and 8% So if he doesn't charge that VAT bill, if it increases his cost, his income, I'm sorry, is it going to be bigger or smaller? Because it turns out it doesn't matter, that's your justification. So let me be honest, there's a little bit of logic missing here to explain this record that came up in the explanatory note. Explain to me how an increase in VAT in the case of a person who is not a vatuary, an entrepreneur, because all citizens will pay, but I mean entrepreneurs, the smallest ones, an increase in the VAT rate does not affect the income of such a person and how it can be written that it does not have for her [[♪ The bell ♪]] Meaning. I would very much ask you to explain this logic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u183	In view of one of the suggestions that this increase in Poles' disposable income by 15% Within three years, she will eat inflation, and I would like to say that no matter how much Mrs. Skowrońska was lurking and exerting herself, it will not prove that 2% of inflation or less than 2% of inflation ate this income. [[But 34 other taxes.]] Second thing. I think I will raise a point in the High House which is rarely raised because our predecessors did not understand it at all. You should know that the standard of living of Poles is important not only for income, including taxes that they pay, but also for social differences. Today, wise countries, wise governments, are struggling with the deepening of excessive social differences. They do it differently: either by taxes or by regulations, in short, pay. I didn't bring this up because there was no time within the so-called. The lecture, as Mrs Tokarska said, but you should know that thanks to state policy, social differences are reduced in Poland, which are measured differently, whether it's Gini's coefficient... [[Down, down, ……]] ...or in any other way. Social differences are greatly reduced. This is our huge achievement, because it not only brings satisfaction to the least-endowed ones, but also benefits to the entire economy. We are appreciated by the world, abroad, because such a government effort to reduce social differences has never been. It is an economic good, a social good, but in order to do so, the state must pursue appropriate policies, including fiscal policies, tax policies. Therefore, among others. the indicators must be maintained over the next year, for 2 years, not increased. You raised your tax in 2011. If you are so sympathetic to Poles, why did you raise the tax in 2011? [[Because there was a crisis.]] Why did you raise that tax, why did you keep it for so many years? Why did you hold him? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maintaining this tax for the next year, for 2 years - on the basis of official data - will allow for further reduction of social differences...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u184	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u185	...while maintaining income.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u186	Thank you very much. [[You're killing the middle class, my fellow Member. You're slaughterin' a chicken that can handle golden eggs. You're all equals down. This is your policy.]] [[There's no middle class here, sir. That's another topic.]] [[Voice from the room: Nobel for Kaczyński from Economics.]] Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about very serious issues: the state budget, the tax scale, the sovereign debt. On the other hand, the level of this debate, I regret to say, has been brought into an aggressive campaign, to deal with the current group which, as a result of democratic elections, exercises power, just as the Civic Platform with PSL has held this power for 8 years. No one in this mandate... [[That's what I'm talking about. You cheated in the election.]] But you have an aggressive way of interrupting. Keep your culture up. You're a mature man. Behave yourself. [[Applause]] You come from a city where culture is particularly appreciated. I go back to my remarks and my language: lying, cheating. Even to me, the rapporteur, there were such words that this is a lying report. In presenting the report, I mentioned two axes around which the debate was held, and actually there was a parliamentary dispute. First axis: whether the project should be consulted and whether a public consultation has been carried out. Second axis: whether maintaining the tax scale that has been in force in our country for 8 years is an increase in taxes or maintaining this 8-year scale. And that is the level of debate. He's been moved here, but written in a very expressive way. I have a question for the Minister. When the State budget for 2011 was constructed, did the new tax rate already apply, or was this rate set during the adoption phase of the draft State budget? This matter was raised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask if the rate of decrease of this conditional parameter in the Act in 2016, 2017 - 47,7, then 45...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u188	Thank you, sir. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u189	... guarantees that within... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u190	Mr President, you will still have time as rapporteur for the committee. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our Dear Ruler! With emphasis on the word "Dear" because for 3 years you have been tightening your belt for Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, you're getting a little lost in your success propaganda. You go out on the stand and on the one hand you say that Poles live so well, they earn so much, they spend more and more. I think it's the VAT receipts, etc. they grow, so why keep it at that level, why not lower it, why not let the Poles decide for themselves where to spend the money so that entrepreneurs can develop their businesses? No, it's better to keep them trapped. I would compare all this to the situation in which Poles are a racing car. Do you know who you are? The gearbox in this car. Unfortunately, this gearbox is so disabled that it inhibits the possibility of speeding this car to maximum speed and even if it goes downhill, you stop it. Even if you don't do anything, it'll be better, because without the gearbox, this car's gonna run itself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u192	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking me questions. I'll try to answer those that were specific. It's hard for me to answer rhetorical questions. I think the basic point is that we should find out what we are talking about and what we want to get through this bill. We keep this bill on the stakes that are now. [[We're picking up after January 1st. Raise it up, Minister.]] In the impact assessment, which you have raised here, because the question has been asked by Mr Meysztowicz, we are writing about the effects of comparing the current situation with the planned situation. This is planned to be different from the current one, because the rates are the same as now, so we keep these rates. The rates were raised in 2011 and the fact is that we maintain them. We maintain them because we have a responsible budgetary policy. Responsible means that... [[Social.]] On the one hand, we have social policy, and we are spending 24 billion on the 500+ programme in this budget, as I have already said several times here. If you think it's wasteful, then you have the right to such a court, and we think it's an expense. This is the first fair social program that is being implemented in Poland. There wasn't a show like this in our country where we give fair money, which we can actually buy, right? 500 PLN per month, not 300 PLN per year. This is the measure of the success we have achieved, among others. It's redistributive. That's the second word that might be worth remembering. We're dealing with redistribution, i.e. We collect taxes and give money to children. In a nutshell, you could say that. This is the policy: we collect these taxes not only - first of all, this is an important issue - from honest Poles, we only took away the thieves, because in the budget of the state... [[Raising the tax.]] ...after the influence of VAT, you can see that the VAT hole disappears. [[That's not true.]] The objective assessments presented by the European Commission show that the VAT hole in Poland is shrinking due to our system activities. [[The state has made 90 billion budget holes.]] The question has been raised as to how this tax reduction we expect to work after budgetary stabilisation has been achieved. I am saying this because this is a responsible action because we combine the future drop in VAT rates with specific indicators of the expenditure rule. You know how important the spending rule is to the budget. This expenditure rule is de facto included in this law, which will lower our rates in the future. As for the chances of this reduction, I am the Vice Minister of Finance, not the Prophet. I can't tell you exactly when something will happen that depends on the conditions that need to be met - both the economic conditions and the conditions of the state's financial policy. Consequently, a number of factors are involved. One such important factor for such large numbers is the exchange rate, so we cannot respond to 100%, what rates will be and when specifically they will be reduced. Let me say this - the value in 2017, the first value we're talking about was -6,28% GDP, which is what we call a deviation from the gross domestic product of the sum of deviations from the public finance sector's performance, was -6.28% from the medium-term budgetary objective. GDP. This standard, which we have introduced, predicts -6%. That is, in my opinion, we are not so far from fulfilling this first criterion. Moreover, as we prepare long-term forecasts - because here she also asked - we are trying to be as conservative as possible, i.e. we estimate that it will be worse than it can be. We estimate conservatively the wrong option, hence in our long-term estimates we do not predict that we will suddenly have some great revenue or that these relations referred to in the law, which in the future will lower these rates, will be fulfilled or that it will happen quickly. At present, this net debt, the second factor referred to in the Act, is 47.7% of the second factor needed to lower the rate. GDP, which is the so-called GDP. net debt to GDP. It's a lot and it's not much. In the bill we stated that we had to reach the 43% threshold We consider this threshold safe. He comes out of the spending rule. [[And in 2018, what was it?]] But in 2018, we can already see that this threshold is shrinking. I'm gonna see if I got it around here somewhere. [[One promise before the election, Minister. You know that.]] I'll tell you what. As I say, as we predict in the long term, we try to be conservative, so we predict that, for example. the forecast of this sum of differences in the first criterion in 2021 will be -7,78. On the other hand, the net debt will then be 41,7, so it will be lower than this threshold 43%. So again, it's like a deviation. from the medium-term budgetary objective estimated by the International Monetary Fund to be -0.3% this year. It shows that our estimates, our assumptions are conservative. When you speak, for example. that we estimate that GDP is going to be lower, that's also why we're doing this because we're going to adopt a conservative option. And if you compare it, for example. how the economists on the market estimate the growth of Polish GDP, you will see that over the last few years these estimates have always been conservative and usually this GDP has been higher, right? So it's like we're trying to be conservative, predicting, but we're counting on it to get better. I would like to say one more thing about the disposable income of Poles, which Mrs Masłowska spoke about here. It is so that actually in 2016 and 2017 he increased by 15%. What's interesting is that earlier this growth was very small and it was in the range of 2.8%, 3.5%, 1.6% in 2013, 3,2% In 2014, there were 6.4% in 2016 , in 2017 there were 8.3%. This is real growth and this real increase in disposable income is also the result of social programmes. So we collect taxes, we plug the VAT hole, and we spend that money on social programs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u194	Thank you, Minister. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska submitted a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u195	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I don't know how to say this, using what the proverb says, whether you're holding up like a drunken fence or defending your right with a maniac's stubbornness, because I said: 31 December 2018 VAT was 23% and 8% , and if this was not the case, VAT would be 22% and 8% And you wouldn't take 8 billion zlotys from Poles, including those students who are here buying ice cream, notebooks or cookies. That's one thing. They didn't answer that. We expect the Minister of Finance to be honest. I still expect it from the rapporteur. As for this project, where you raise taxes by 8 billion, without semantics or marshals, he finally said that he presented without consultation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A flawed project for debate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u196	Thank you very much. Minister. You're welcome. [[Can you do it again?]] [[If necessary, Madam, I will repeat it 100 times.]] [[Voice from the hall: You are known for repeating yourself. Really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project keeps the rates at the current level. [[December 31st...]] On 31 December, the rates will be 23%. And 8%... [[Raised? Raised by this project?]] ... 1 January will be 23% and 8%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u198	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Nobletta.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, it would seem that a rather neutral project was a discussion, there was a political dispute, but this discussion had substance. Here in the plenary room, unfortunately, we have practically such a populist debate. All these dictatorships, comparisons to gearboxes, to kids who are five... [[Speech for 8 billion, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are really reducing the level of debate in this way, especially on fundamental issues, because the state budget is not a matter for one group. This is a budget for Polish citizens. And this budget, which was prepared, was prepared not for election, because it was words like that. If this were the budget prepared for the elections, we could boldly introduce a deficit of not 28.5 billion, since we took over the state budget of almost 60 billion. [[47 billion.]] 59.5 billion. [[With the blackheads.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we could avoid this debate and these allegations and move these hypothetical revenues from this one percentage point in terms of increasing the deficit. And these needs, these projects that we're carrying out, we were able to implement. [[It wouldn't have worked.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we are responsible, not only for the level of debt, but also for the other parameters of the budget. We want Poland to come out of this deficit, and that is what we achieve. (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Madam You've worked for so many years, and you know that public debt is apolitical, groups change, and the effect stays. [[Tell that to Mrs Szydło.]] We'll be listed internationally as the most indebted country, but we're not. We have a good trend thanks to the good economic situation and let's all be happy together, because somebody will also take over our governments later... [[I wonder what it is.]] ...and will succeed in these positive changes, these good decisions. [[And where's the crisis?]] (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Let us really no longer argue whether maintaining this tax at this level is an increase. Ladies and gentlemen, hypothetically, if this were the case, there would be a return to a scale of 22,7%. So you would say here in this courtroom that the PiS has reduced the tax? [[No, not really.]] No. You would say that the PiS only kept this level. But I still have a question about the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I would like to ask you a question about these allegations, because I admit that I do not remember. When you raised the tax - I believe that there were real circumstances justifying such a need, because this was also due to the concern for the state budget, it was justified at that time of crisis - that you had a wide public consultation at that time? No, there was no consultation at the time, so don't expect that while keeping the tax level at the same level. [[But is that right now?]] Mr President, we are not raising it, it is really keeping it at the same level, because if we were to increase it, we would be forecasting another increase in revenue. We're just keeping this steady progression going. [[But you brought in 34 new ones.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have made such a request as a Member of a number of term of office. The dispute is needed in Parliament, but let us establish such sacred areas: state budget, deficit, public debt as cross-party parameters. Because these are, ladies and gentlemen, parameters that are about life, about the level of life of Poles. Thank you very much for putting your doubts forward, for the discussion within the finance committee, because it also gives you some experience. The Minister, the representatives of the government, take into account these comments, observations. But I have an appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, as we discuss public finances, let's not get ahead of ourselves, because economics is a science that is strict, and such introduction of populist elements simply degrades us in the eyes of the public. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What did the marshal say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u200	Thank you, sir. Mr Blazej Parda, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to refer so briefly to the question that came to us here, if this altitude had returned to its normal level, to 22.7%. That's what we'd say. Law and Justice have reduced tax. No, we wouldn't say that the PiS reduced that tax, he would just go back to his own level. Today we say you're raising, and then we'd say he just reached his level. If you wanted to lower the tax, he'd have to land at 21.6%. That would actually be a reduction. [[1%.]] So this is 22.7%. is standard, 23.8% is a raise, and 21.6% is a raise. - reduction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u202	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I don't hear any objection... [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Thank you very much. There is an objection, then we will settle this issue in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Security Service in the years 2017-2020 (prints No 3016 and 3022). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in the years 2017-2020. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 20 November 2018, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and after considering this draft law at its meeting on 21 November 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. I would like to add that the committee fully supported this bill, there were no votes against or abstentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u204	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland on the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in 2017-2020, print No 3016. This is a government project, which aims to estimate the expenditure incurred in connection with the modernisation of the police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service adopted in 2016 in order to achieve real shape. The need for new calculations is a consequence of an increase in the number of posts of officers - these are called calculation posts - in 2017 and 2018 by a total of 2640. The novel contains two articles. One introduces the updated amounts of expenditure for the implementation of the programme, the other assumes amendments within 14 days of their publication. None of the above provisions raises doubts. In order to increase the number of posts in 2019 and 2020, additional expenditure on increases and associated costs will amount to 22 240 000. zł. This amount is increased by the overall amount of expenditure on the implementation of the programme. The maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of the 4-year programme, which is the financial effect of the Act, as set out in Article. Paragraph 7 1, will increase by PLN 91.5 million in total. The amounts mentioned above do not have any additional implications for the State budget. As a result of the increase in the number of posts of officials in 2017 and 2018, expenditure has already been increased accordingly. The draft budget for 2019 will include additional expenditure for increasing the number of posts in the State Protection Service. It is worth highlighting, given the recent protests by police officers, the further increase in expenditure on uniformed services, including the extension of this programme. We need to ensure systematic increases for the years to come. This is justified because of the need to increase the prestige of serving. Still a lot of police jobs aren't covered. Police officers resign from service for more attractive jobs, and the role of their work for the security of the state and its citizens is unfortunately depreciated at the moment. These circumstances justify the adoption of the amendments in question. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As my club friend pointed out, the Civic Platform will support this bill. This project is indeed a kind of update of the data contained in the programme for the modernisation of uniformed services. I also wanted to express my good opinion about this program. I am pleased that this programme is being implemented, and my parliamentary club voted in favour of this law. Surely this program will be implemented in the coming years, as will the program of sleep. Minister Stasiak was implemented under the Civic Platform and just as you have implemented the standardisation programme adopted under the Civic Platform. But there's one thing I'd like to ask you. A few weeks ago, in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, we discussed the programme. At the time, I asked for detailed information on how much money spent on the modernisation programme for uniformed services is really new money spent on modernisation, and how much money would be spent on modernisation in these services anyway. They were issued in previous years and regardless of the implementation of the programme, such an exchange of equipment in uniform services would take place. I was supposed to get an answer to that question in writing, Minister. I have not received it so far, therefore I ask you to give this reply today from the speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project that we are discussing, i.e. the draft law amending the law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the State Protection Service in 2017-2020, is a very good project. In fact, he meets the expectations of all these services. Its main structures concern the fact that, with the increase in the number of posts per service, there will also be an increase in the number by which it will be necessary to multiply expenditure for the maintenance of posts or precisely to strengthen the incentive system for the remuneration of officials under this modernisation law. In the police it will be 1000 more jobs, in the Border Guard - 700 jobs, in the State Fire Department - 490 jobs, and in the State Security Service - 450 posts. All these jobs are needed as much as possible, especially the police for years, all the time, reporting some shortcomings in terms of ethos, so this is a very good direction. I hope that this will continue in the years to come. The law is short, simple, clear and transparent, it raised no doubts in the committee, all the clubs voted in favour of it. We, too, here in the courtroom, will vote in favour of this bill. It is only important, Minister, that these jobs, for example police, actually be used for activities that the police should do, because I would like to point out that in the case of my personal case, which is at my heart, namely cases of various types of access to weapons and ammunition, we have many reports that police officers unfortunately try to influence or in some way act against whether it's businessmen or some gun owners. I would like the Minister to pay attention to this, because it is very important to use these jobs, but it is a social one, not a social one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in the years 2017-2020. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law provides for an increase in the level of appropriations to be paid together with expenditure related to these salaries. The need to adopt this amendment, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, results from an increase in the number of officers' calculation posts in the years 2017 and 2018 by a total of 2640 posts, including in the Police - by 1000 posts in 2017, in the Border Guard - by a total of 700 posts, in the State Fire Service in 2018 - by 490 posts and in the State Protection Service - by 450 posts. In view of the fact that the appropriations entered in the Act to increase the multiple of the basic amount representing the average salary of the officers by 0,22, based on the number of posts of officials in 2016, it is necessary to update the amount of appropriations from 1 January 2019 to an additional 2640 posts. In order to increase the number of posts in 2019 and 2020, additional expenditure on increases and related expenditure will amount to 22 243 000. zł, whereas the maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of this programme, which is the financial effect of the Act, as set out in Article. Paragraph 7 1, increase by 91 423 thousand in total. zł. According to the justification given, the amount resulting from the project will not constitute additional expenditure for the State budget as there has been an appropriate increase in these appropriations for 2017 and 2018 as well as in the draft budget for 2019. Consequently, the proposed amendment will result in both the corresponding changes in the amounts provided for in the above-mentioned annexes. the project in 2019 and 2020 as well as changes in the overall amount of the project as well as an appropriate change of the amounts in the normative part of the Act. And, of course, the Modern will support this bill as much as possible. We believe that it is most appropriate. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of financing services, although they are crucial, important and irresistible, is, in our view, not the biggest problem we have to face today. The biggest problem, however, is the great contempt that the governing camp feeds every day the officers, are threats against the officers and the fact that Minister Jarosław Zieliński, who supervises these services: the police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department, the State Protection Service, seems to have completely misunderstood the ethos of state service after assessing the minister's activities. And what I want to say is that we all have paintings in front of us that show perfectly, that confetti that had to be cut off by the police officers to visit the minister, to force them to attend church celebrations, while the officers were not on the streets, we have reports of forcing police officers to dress up as SOP officers in order to patrol the area of the minister's property, handing out keys to a used car, humiliating running officers after the Minister with an umbrella, or developing red carpets like in the old years of the Polish People's Republic. And it must also be said that the police are not invited to a police ceremony as if the police were a private farm of the Minister and his colleagues in Law and Justice. And that's all, ladies and gentlemen, these are mute certificates of demoralization. And although it's only part of the rich Byzantium that you're creating, the conclusion is obvious. Minister, if there is any decency left in you, if you respect even a little bit of officers who risk their health and lives every day, taking care of the lives and health of Poles, if you do not want to destroy the service, then it is time to resign. After three years of destruction, systematic destruction of the service, your mission, Minister, has ended, and it will only make it worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u213	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, November 20th this year a governmental draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in 2017-2020 has entered into force. The speed of proceding such an important piece of legislation, which brings with it, for example, significant financial consequences, is reversed. We do not know exactly the reasons for such sudden procedure. However, at the very beginning, in order to throw away arguments about blocking very important regulations, which are important for the security of the state, I would like to state from this stand that my club will not block or contest the project. At the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, from the Minister's mouth, we heard an increase in the number of officers in uniform services by 2640, which will make a significant contribution to ensuring the security of the state and its citizens. Such arguments can convince even the most unconvinced. Overall expenditure on the programme is also increasing and will amount to 9 208 940 000. PLN in distribution for 4 years. What hits the quota allocation is the amount allocated to the officers' personal and protective equipment. They are the lowest, but it is the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration that is responsible for these issues, and Members have faith in the wisdom and discretion of the rulers. It also undermines the modesty of measures to increase the competitiveness of civil workers' salaries. We understand that this is definitely the result of certain arrangements and agreements, so we will not contest this either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, there must have been some extraordinary situations and circumstances in recent years causing such a pace of legislative work concerning the government's submission, hence the Polish People's Party's Association - the Union of European Democrats, without getting involved in a deeper analysis of the situation and needs, will not object to their sanctioning established. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is very important that all clubs supported this amendment project, a very important amendment project, because the status of posts, calculated for 2016, is already different today. Although the Budgetary Act contains the money that is earmarked for an increase in the number of posts, it is necessary to adapt the Law on the modernisation of the Police and to take into account that in the Police the number of posts has increased by 1000, and this is currently over 103 thousand. posts, in the Border Guard - about 700, in the fire department - about 490, in the State Security Service - about 450. If we hadn't, the world would have run out of 10,713,000 already in 2019. And in order to meet these requirements, we increase the number of jobs. Although everyone here supports this amendment, it is worthwhile to stop at the core of the matter for a moment, it is worth recalling to the High House what these changes result from. What really results from these changes? That's because the government has taken up work for e.g. Re-establishing police stations and new police officers have appeared in the municipalities. We had problems with the old government security office's jobs. Here too, efforts have been made to simply systematically eliminate these vacancies. We had a difficult situation at the borders and the removal of entire Border Guard offices. These offices, the precincts have been restored in many places, this is about the Podkarpackian office. So behind these jobs there is a huge effort not only in technical modernisation, but also in restoring officers to places where Poles simply want uniformed services of the Polish state to function. And it's a good thing that this problem has been solved. It is also worth remembering that in this modernisation act, of course for 2019, but even before negotiations with trade unions, there were also increases. Thus, the club Law and Justice fully supports this draft amendment of the law, because behind it is really the strengthening of services, personal reinforcement, but also the strengthening of technical services of the uniforms of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u216	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1.5 minutes. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the floor, please. I'll close the list after the first question. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are in principle considering a technical issue which does not raise any major concerns, but we are talking about the need to increase the budgetary resources previously allocated for the implementation of the programme for the modernisation of the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are faced with this necessity because the number of posts in the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Security Service has increased by 2640. Is it not significant that for a number of years the governments of PO and PSL have dealt with the collapse of services responsible for the security of Poles, the liquidation of police stations, and now thanks to good law and justice policy we can reverse these destructive actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u219	Dear Marshal, High Seym! While discussing this law, I wanted to ask you about a question which is perhaps one of the reasons for many vacancies, for example in the State Fire Department. I am referring to the requirements set out in the regulation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the qualification of candidates for the State Fire Department. Of course, it is obvious that firefighters should be healthy and relatively athletic young people. On the other hand, I know that for many months the fire chiefs have also signaled that the requirements, especially those concerning the running, so-called. the gear after the envelope, or the endurance test, which boils down to running on 20-metre stretches, is very excessive. It seems that a firefighter should be strong, athletic, but whether he gets there, I don't know, to the car within 8 or 13 or 11 seconds, doesn't really matter much. The effects are such that, for example, This year, during one qualification procedure, in Częstochowa City Command, one hundred and dozen people came forward and passed these tests of 18 people, mostly within the lower limits of the norm, and it was not likely that they were ill or overweight people. These regulations, however, seem to be slightly exaggerated in this Regulation. I wanted to ask the Minister if he had such signals from the fire chiefs or if he was considering looking at the requirements set out in this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u220	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] There is no Member, i.e. There is no envoy. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform. There isn't any either. Mr Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In implementing this modernisation programme, which we are currently discussing, I would like to point out that when it comes to the first modernisation programme, which was introduced by the Law and Justice Government at the turn of 2006 and 2007, it can actually be said that it drew our services - the Police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department or then the BOR - from a serious material collapse. And this is clearly something that should be highlighted in this discussion today. Unfortunately, later this programme was not implemented during the rule of the Civic Platform. Now we're back to him. There is an amount of 9 billion to be spent, which is distributed over the years and also affects the issue of remuneration. My question regarding this programme will also be whether we are conducting such an analysis, which would indicate that after it is implemented we will be able to say that, for example. the most important investments, those of the cubic, e.g. in the police, they will be realized or there will be a need to allocate some additional resources to carry out such investment tasks, because it is known that the needs for property will always be large. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Taking advantage of the opportunity that we are discussing police finances - there is a director in the courtroom - I wanted to ask you about a case that I believe is very urgent and can cause a huge burden on the police. On 30 October, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the existing rules for calculating the equivalent of leave for former police officers were incompatible with the Constitution. These rules have been in force for 17 years and these officers, former police officers, have until 6 December to submit applications for payment of the benefits due to them. It seems that these may be very significant amounts, so I would like to ask the Minister, first of all, how many officers have the power to obtain this compensation. What resources will be needed to withdraw this money? Is this going to be covered by the own resources that are in the police at the moment, or is it going to be some extra money that the police are going to hand over? And the last question, in my opinion, is also important: Since, according to legal regulations, the deadline for submitting an application is until 6 December, does the police inform their former officers that they have the right to make such an application so that they simply do not miss these deadlines for investigating the benefits due to them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u224	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, thank you very much for this project, because it goes against many serious tasks of state service. I am pleased that the Border Guard, especially the Eastern border flank of the European Union, will be duly equipped, not to mention the posts. I represent the city with a city precinct where - I would like to say this to the Members of the opposition - there is excellent cooperation between the commander and all the Members and there is no sharing, because the commander is aware that he is serving you. But to the point. Minister! I would ask you very much to draw attention to the fact that the commanders of the places have more opportunity to act, to ask for the equipment they actually need. Why? Because in some units they do not necessarily need very high-end equipment, e.g. a BMW car, and the equipment they need in their current operations. Here I ask that there be more consultation during the implementation of this project with the municipal commanders, not even the voivodships, although I know that there is a service subsidiary. This would contribute to a greater, better implementation on the ground of this programme, which is very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have to say, I just heard that the chief is cooperating. I don't think he's gonna be promoted. Those who don't cooperate will be promoted. We are talking about jobs, so this is a good time to ask also about vacancies, so I would very much ask the Minister to present information on the Silesian Voivodeship: how many vacancies are in the Silesian Voivodeship, in the City Police Command in Bielsko-Biała and in the District Police Commands in Cieszyn, Pszczyn and Żywiec. I understand, of course, that the Chief may not keep this data up to date, so I'm asking for a written reply. I would also like to ask you in writing how many vacancies have been completed in these units globally for the Śląskie voivodship, as well as for commands in Bielsko-Biała, Cieszyn, Pszczynie and Żywiec in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u228	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law has already been approximated by your Members acting on behalf of the clubs and the rapporteur. I would just like to remind you that the Law of 15 December 2016 on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Protection Service in the years 2017-2020.In addition to investments and purchases of equipment, the increase is one of the main segments of the programme. The appropriations for the increase were therefore included according to the number of posts for 2016, according to that state, and in the budget laws for 2017 and 2018 the staff limits were increased together - as has already been calculated - by 2640 posts, of which to the Police by 1000 posts. Maybe it's worth remembering that this is currently 103,370 jobs, that's the value of the staff limit. Here I will remind you that in 2009 the PO-PSL coalition reduced the number of police posts by 3000, then by 2000 increased, but the thousand who have now returned were no longer paid back. Only now in our rule have we returned to the previous staff limit 103 370, which has been defined, was considered on the basis of needs and opportunities to be optimal. In the Border Guard we have 700 more jobs in total, of which in 2017 - 300 jobs, in 2018 - 400 jobs. Currently, the number of calculation posts in the Border Guard is 16 053. The State Fire Service in 2018 saw an increase in the number of posts of 490 and the current number of calculations in this service is 30 995. In the State Protection Service there has been an increase in the number of posts by 450, from which in 2018 - by 165 and in 2019 they will increase by 285. In 2019 the number of imputation posts in the State Protection Service will therefore be 2660. And such values are provided for in the draft budget law for 2019. Therefore, an amount of 10713 000 is included in Annex 2 to the 2019 modernisation programme for the increase of salaries and derivatives. less due to the failure to take account of the above 2640 number of posts. It is therefore necessary to update the increase appropriations from 1 January 2019 due to an additional 2640 posts of 10 713 thousand. PLN in order to adapt expenditure of the Modernization Act for 2019 to the Budget Act for next year, 2019. As a result of the increase in the number of posts in 2019 and 2020, there will be an increase in expenditure on increases and derivatives by 22 243 000. zł. Expenditure in 2020 is 11 530 000. zł. This will increase expenditure on the implementation of the entire programme of modernization of uniformed services to 9 208 940 thousand. zł. The maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of the programme resulting from the financial effect of the Act, as set out in Article. Paragraph 7 1 will increase by 91 423 000 by 2026. zł - this amount has already been paid - including all the effects in these years, i.e. up to 18 019 394 000. zł. It should also be pointed out that the increase in expenditure on the programme by 22 243 000. PLN, as well as an increase in the total limit by 91 423 thousand. PLN does not have any additional impact on the State budget, as the increase in the number of posts of officials in 2017 and 2018 has already increased expenditure in budget laws and the amendment of the Act aims, as has already been mentioned, to bring it into line with the 2019 budget law. The proposed amendment will result in an appropriate change in the amounts provided for in the above-mentioned annexes. the project in 2019 and in 2020, because then the modernisation programme ends - it is a programme, I will remind you, for the years 2017 and 2020 - as well as a change in the overall amount for the whole project, as well as a corresponding change in the amount in the normative part of the law. I would ask the High House to adopt this bill. Moreover, the vote and discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs showed that there is no dispute here, there is no discrepancy in the assessment of the matter. I would like to give you even more insight into what these jobs are meant to be. There is an increase in their number and there have been such threads about what we spend these jobs on. Now, as far as the police are concerned, these 1000 jobs, 150 jobs were allocated to the staffing of the re-enforced police stations, before - I will remind - massively decommissioned during the government of the PO-PSL coalition throughout the country. 770 posts have been allocated to the permanent structures of the economic crime and traffic cells and other organisational cells, taking into account local threats to crime. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in previous years, years before this time for which we take responsibility as the government of law and justice, in many garrisons, jobs were taken away, reduced, reduced. As far as possible, there was some compensation for those losses. Of course, this was not entirely possible, but where there were most legitimate needs, there was an increase in the number of posts. Next, the Bureau of Anti-Terrorist Operations has been given 1,000 jobs 50. At the moment, it may be worth noting, as far as the entire police force is concerned, that we have a law in the process of amending the Police Act, which separates the counter-terrorism service. It's gonna be in this police vertical, this part of the police 965 jobs. And for the Central Bureau of Police Investigation, we have 30 jobs. Together, this results in an increase of almost 2 000. jobs without one, 1999. There was also a reinforcement in the Border Guard. We have strengthened the Border Guard units by 700 posts in connection with the revision of the Schengen Borders Code and the obligation to carry out systematic checks on persons exercising their right to free movement at all the external borders of the European Union, i.e. air, sea and land borders, with the largest increase in the number of jobs at these large airports - 300. 400 posts, on the other hand, were intended to strengthen border crossing points in connection with visa-free travel with Ukraine, the creation of new Border Guard facilities, the Carpathian Border Guard Division, which we have recreated and which has also been liquidated under the rule of the PO-PSL coalition, which is worth recalling in this discussion, which is still being led by some Member States to political tracks. Also these posts, some of them, have been dedicated to the construction of the National Information System in the field of passenger flight data, it has been a duty for some time, and strengthening the vertical for foreign affairs. In the State Protection Service, with regard to the additional 450 posts, this results from the imposition on formation of new obligations related to its tasks, even those which this formation had not previously had, even in terms of operational and exploratory tasks or an increase in the number of controlled, protected facilities. I would like to remind you that in the State Fire Department 490 posts have been allocated to carry out control and awareness-raising activities for other entities, to carry out additional tasks in the field of monitoring the use of the so-called. greenhouse gases used in fire protection devices and for the permanent reinforcement of 48 existing specialised chemical and environmental rescue groups. This is for better imaging and detail of the information that has already been cited. As regards the questions of the honourable Members, I would like to say that, in the case of this two-component financing of the modernisation programme, this information is being prepared, Mr President. You'll receive it in writing shortly. I am not able to quote these numbers from memory at the moment, but it is indeed a two-component programme when it comes to sources of funding. As regards the case which arises from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is being examined very carefully at the moment. I think at some point, I think we'll be able to talk about it soon. It's worth talking about separately, because the case is fresh, new, so it needs a deeper analysis. As regards vacancies, there was also a question concerning this case, I would remind you that the lowest number of vacancies was so far in 2016, when we obtained a percentage of vacancies of 2,3%. It's been different before, but it's usually more. Now, after an increase of $1,000. employment, of course, has automatically increased by about 1% as regards index conversions. As a result of what is happening on the market outside uniform services, also as a result of a fall in unemployment, especially more attractive, more offers in other sectors, fewer people are reported to the service than before, but there are always at least a few people in one place. The procedure shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements laid down in the legislation. Of course, they are also analyzed and changed when necessary. Mr Tomasz Głogowski asked about the fire department and the qualification requirements, especially as regards physical fitness and fitness. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the subject. a broader meaning. There is nothing to hide that the computer generation does not meet the physical requirements as it has been before. We have to require certain efficiency, because firefighters in action have to prove it. This is always a difficult discussion as far as it can be modified. Surely it cannot be reduced to such an extent as to endanger the performance of the very difficult tasks of firefighters and other officers: police officers, Border Guard officers or the State Security Service. They must also have proper physical fitness beyond all other requirements. Of course, this case is constantly monitored. Changes are taking place to some extent, even recently with regard to fitness requirements, fitness tests, you might say. As far as I'm concerned, ladies and gentlemen, about the police vacations, I'm going to give it to you on a general scale. I cannot, of course, tell you how it is in Silesia. Of course, we will give you in writing because I do not remember these details, and there is no need for that. On the other hand, as far as the entire Police are concerned, today: on 7 November 2018, the employment rate was 98 042 posts, and the limit, I will remind you, was 103 309. 3528 new policemen have been admitted this year. Another 1,200 new officers will be admitted in December. These figures indicate that at the end of December, if it does not go away - we hope that there will be very few; it would be best not to have them at all, but, after all, retirement after obtaining the service of years is a natural thing - it will amount to more than 99 thousand. According to the data we have today, the number of these people is estimated to be 99 242. This would mean the number of vacancies at less than 4%, i.e. 3.9%. It is not a dramatic scale, but of course it is a continuous task to reduce these vacancies. Let me just remind you that in previous years, before the time of our responsibility, when twice as many people volunteered for one place, the number of vacancies reached 6%. So that this is not a new situation, especially a dramatic situation, although it is a task to carry out, to carry out on a continuous basis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We try, we do everything we can, the chiefs do it... I'm almost done, Marshal. One more short thread. ...to encourage new officers to serve in the police force. It's a systematic recruitment process. We abolished the quarterly limits that were in force earlier. If there are more people who meet the conditions, new cops are admitted. They take a vow and are directed towards appropriate training. With regard to such statements as Mr Suchon, he has already specialized in this, i.e. Considered - he is not the only Member, there are still a few other such people in the Seym - that his position can be built on insulting me and attacking me, then go ahead. Only, sir, you will forgive me, but you repeat how some foolishness and below my dignity is to refer to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u230	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. On this occasion, I want to welcome the students of the Second High School that teaches them. Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński in Olsztyn from classes Ib and Ic, [[Applause]] Welcome... [[Correct...]] ...and ladies from the Association of Widows and Mining Orphans, we also welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you obviously didn't understand what I said. I was just talking about facts. And the facts are that there were red carpets, there were confetti, there were officers dressed up as SOP and all those other things, handing out car keys that already drove, you don't know how much. So, Minister, if you're talking about foolishness, I'm asking you to look very deeply into your heart, your soul, and judge from yourself, and judge this absolutely reprehensible course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u232	We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company (print No 2958). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski to present the justification for the bill. [[Applause]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the Government's draft law on compensation for the loss of free coal rights and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of a mining undertaking is to compensate, to a certain extent, within the scope of the State budget, for losses incurred by persons who are entitled not employees of mining undertakings who have received free coal in kind or in cash equivalent. These persons received free coal on the basis of collective agreements, agreements and other regulations in force in a mining undertaking which had ceased to be in force before the date of entry into force of the Act as a result of agreements concluded or terminations made. The aim is to be achieved by paying out of the budget of the State compensation for the permanent loss of the right to free coal or for the cessation of the collection of free coal by persons who are not employees of the mining company. On 24 October 2017, the Law of 12 October 2017 on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal entered into force. This law allowed for compensation to be granted to the largest group of persons who were not employees of a mining company entitled to free coal on the basis of internal labour law - pensioners and pensioners of mining companies who were unilaterally or by agreement of the parties the right to free coal. In addition, the law also included widows, widowers and orphans who had a fixed right to a survivor's pension after pensioners. The proposed regulation is the continuation of that law and at the same time the completion of the process of cleaning up the situation arising after the loss of the right to free coal by persons who were not employees of mining companies which were mining coal which was the subject of a deputation. Coal deputies have been an integral part of the life and finances of the mining community for many years. It should be recalled here that the financial situation, which at that time deteriorated in the mines, caused the rights to be removed unilaterally by the employer's termination of collective agreements guaranteeing that right or by agreement between the parties to those agreements, i.e. the social side and the employer. During the application of the Act of 12 October 2017 on compensation in the mining environment, there were voices that, in addition to pensioners, pensioners, widows and orphans after these persons, other groups of persons also lost their right to free coal and, under the principle of equality, should also be granted compensation for the loss of that right. After gathering experience in the functioning of the Act, numerous social signals and information from the affected entrepreneurs, enabling the identification of other categories of persons, a catalogue of persons entitled to compensation covered by this regulation was created. According to the draft law, persons entitled are among others. entitled to free coal on the basis of collective agreements, agreements or other regulations in force in a mining undertaking which have ceased to apply before the date of entry into force of the Act, as a result of agreements concluded, and so: former workers whose employment relationship has been terminated with a mining undertaking under the Act of 13 March on special arrangements for the termination of their employment relations with workers, widows, widows and orphans having a fixed right to a survivor's pension after a deceased in the course of the employment relationship, pensioner or pensioner from a mining undertaking, if the loss of entitlement to free coal has not been compensated to them in any other way, widows, widows and orphans receiving the special benefits referred to in Article. 82 Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, either having a fixed right to a survivor's pension after a worker of a mining undertaking who died during a working relationship or a former employee who acquired the right to a pre-retirement benefit, collecting free coal in kind or in cash equivalent, to which the mining undertaking ceased to spend free coal or to pay a cash equivalent before the date of entry into force of this Act. It is necessary to clarify the fact that in the draft law the entitled widowers, widowers and orphans who are entitled to a survivor's pension are included in the catalogue of entitled widows, widowers and orphans who are entitled to a survivor's pension after the deceased's employees during their employment relationship and after pensioners if the loss of that entitlement has not been compensated in any other way. The purpose of the regulation that we are currently proposing is to align the status of these persons with that of other persons who have remained in the same situation and who have never been compensated for the loss of this entitlement due to differences in the payment of benefits by companies. This is a kind of supplement and at the same time fill the gap in the system that has been shaken in previous years. Following the introduction of the 2017 Act and the current Act, we supplement and complete the system in respect of persons who have been deprived of the right to a coal depot in nature or to a paid deputy. In order to implement the compensation payment, the Act designates the paying companies. It will be the Company of Restructuring of Kopalń SA, which on behalf of the Coal Company, Katowice Holding of Coal, KWK Kazimierz Juliusz will pay, collect applications from those persons who, in respect of these establishments, had their powers and were assigned to mines within this structure. Then there will be people associated with the Jastrzębska Coal Company, Tauron Extraction and Lublin Coal Bogdanka. This division has been made because companies are actively in possession of data and are staffed for this purpose. Our purpose is to carry out the whole procedure as we would like, as before. This is actually the last piece of legislation that will allow us to close this cycle. The holder shall be required to submit an application within 90 days of the entry into force of the Act. The important information is that on June 1st we start payouts. I think that as far as this bill is concerned, we should close the process this year, so at the beginning of next year we would start accepting applications. Of course, this will also be preceded by an information campaign. As before, I will also address the parliamentary offices, because it is a good habit that representatives of all the communities represented in Parliament join together in the promotion of this law and at the same time in its smooth implementation. This was then a very large number of people, because more than 200,000, today according to our estimates and according to the analysis of all the documents I mentioned, we are talking about 24 000. persons. It is also important that, in addition to the possibility for widows and orphans to exercise this right, we have added the possibility of exercising this right by persons who have either failed to submit an application under the 2017 Act, or for whom companies - and we have such cases - have failed to comply with the relevant formalities due to a certain circulation of documents, and the payment resulting from the Act has been suspended, but not because of the applicant's fault. Here we create an opportunity for all groups. In this way, those who have not made an application to the SRK will have to submit an application and, in the case of those who have submitted the application which has been examined, the documents will have to be completed and the application will be re-examined without being submitted to the institution which will be responsible for verifying the applications and for preparing the relevant payment decisions. As far as the most important financial impact is concerned, because this is important, the compensation amounts to 10,000. zł. The amount of compensation shall not be equivalent to the coal available for years in which it was no longer issued to entitled persons or for future years in which it could be issued. That's why we call it compensation. Secondly, as I mentioned, the implementation will be from 1 June. In the bill we enter a whole group of people who are entitled to do this, i.e. 24 080 people, because that's what this group counts, according to our calculations, and this is a closed collection. The limit of expenditure from the State budget for financing one-off compensation in 2019 is set out in the Law at the level of 240,8 million. The compensation will be paid within the limits of mining expenditure. This cost was calculated on the assumption that, as previously, all eligible applicants would submit appropriate applications. Let me just remind you, that's when it happened, like, $240,000. persons entitled to submit applications Little more than 200,000, the rest of the funds were returned to the budget after the entire programme had been cleared. Of course, the law is accompanied by appropriate proposals - these proposals are at the same level of detail as in the case of the previous law - and a declaration that the person who wishes to exercise the right will not appear in court with claims and, at the same time, if he is in dispute in court, he must provide such information. If she wants to apply again in court, she will not be able to exercise the right under this law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm making this bill that we talked about here. Let me just add that a few months, required less than six months was connected, among others. With the collection of documents... As you can imagine, those who have known the transformation process since 1989 have been a turbulent and very dynamic process: first the independent operation of mines, then coal companies, then the establishment of the Coal Company, the holding company. For this reason, we have made a really big effort, for which I thank all the employees of the Ministry, but also all the employees of the Company for Restructuring of Mines, all the employees in companies that have posted persons to reach the archives, to all these agreements and at the same time to balance the persons that may be covered by this law. We are aware that this law closes a cycle and at the same time builds a system to compensate those who have been deprived of their rights. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u234	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Grzegorz Matusiak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u235	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Colleagues, fellow Parliamentarians! The hard coal mining sector is one of the most important in the Polish economy, so solving problems in this sector is important for the state. In recent years, particularly coal mining has undergone a major change after many years of neglect, and the current government's restructuring programme for hard coal has helped to halt the tragic situation in this sector and has halted the collapse of mining into the abyss. For nearly 3 years, the change in the approach to coal mining has been about profound organisational and legal changes, and we can now see growth in this sector. As we all know, problems in implementing the right to free coal began a few years ago when, due to the deteriorating financial situation, mining companies began to express their right to the coal debt to pensioners, rencistoms and other non-employees. These measures have, in fact, improved the financial situation of mining companies, mainly on an ad hoc basis, but at the same time have contributed to reducing mining privileges for non-employees, inter alia. widows from deceased workers of mining companies. We've all seen what happened between 2012 and 2015. It was the previous government, the PO-PSL government, that allowed people who were not employees to pay their mining benefits, among others. to pensioners and workers' widows, although these benefits have been an integral part of the life and finances of the mining community for many years. On 24 October 2017, the Law of 12 October 2017 on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal on the basis of which the compensation was paid to pensioners and widows, widows and orphans having a fixed right to a survivor's pension after pensioners who retired or retired from mining companies operating on 31 December 2011 on the basis of a concession. On the basis of this law, over 211 thousand compensations were received from the State budget. persons with a total amount of over PLN 2 billion. The government's draft act on compensation for the loss of free coal rights and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of a mining company is the next and last step in the process of settling the situation arising after the loss of free coal rights by persons who are not employees of mining companies which were mining coal which was the subject of the deputy. The project was covered by persons, who, like pensioners, had their right to the coal depot terminated by coal companies. These include, above all, widows, widowers and orphans of deceased workers, those with pre-retirement benefits, as well as widows with special pensions. The project was also covered by entitled persons who did not receive compensation under the Law of 12 October 2017 for various reasons. This latter social group has been restored, as it were, the possibility of receiving compensation, in particular because of the fact that this was the case for older people. This is the way out to meet them, so that they too will receive the compensation they deserve. The coal depot, i.e. the entitlement to receive a certain amount of free coal per year, is a very old mining power traditionally granted to both workers and pensioners, mining rencists and other non-employees, granted by a mining undertaking on the basis of internal labour law. The proposed law will cover a group of around 24 thousand. persons who, on the basis of the proposed law, will receive a one-off compensation of 10 000. zł. In total, this is to cost the state budget more than PLN 240 million. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the solution presented in print No 2958 aimed at ending the process of cleaning up the situation of persons entitled to free coal and not employees of mining companies, and calls on the High Sejm to urgently adopt a government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of collection [[♪ The bell ♪]] free coal by persons who are not employees of a mining company. Thank you very much in this place...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u236	...Mr. Grzegorz Tobiszowski, who personally engaged in...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u237	...a draft of this law, as well as Mrs. Maria Przystanska, who supported us substantively. She's a miner's widow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I wanted to present the position of the club as regards the act on compensation for the loss of free coal rights and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of mining companies, print No. 2958. The history of carbon deputies has already been here, from this tribune, probably caused hundreds of times. The Minister of Energy, the Deputy Minister, comes back to her, as do we, Members, once at the Sejm's meeting, when we are discussing the equivalent of money, about the successive laws that were to order this matter. I remember 2015 and the beginning of 2016, when I personally asked the Minister to take care of this complicated matter. She came out, as the minister said at the time, from a difficult mining situation. Then there was a promise of quick, smooth handling of the case. After 3 years, maybe after 2 years we received a law in October 2017, which was presented in the light of the cameras by Prime Minister Morawiecki, Deputy Minister of Energy and Members of Silesia as a solution and solution to the problem. All those affected by this bill, pensioners, widows and orphans, lived their hopes that they would receive compensation, and quietly hoped that the coal debt would be restored, because he had been arrested for 10 months before, as the Minister mentioned, whether directly by the board or by a joint trade union agreement, but was suspended for 3 years. When we started reading this bill, when it was debated, it turned out that this law was actually for 10,000. zł completely eliminates the coal debt, completely eliminates the payout. The truth was worse when we discovered it more and more and we realized that this law deprives money equivalent already then, in 2017, 235 376 people, which the Minister thought was It's written and recounted out there somewhere. It turned out that in Lubelski Węgło Bogdanka, as well as in Tauron, the extraction of 6255 people is now completely deprived of their deputies, because until the entry into force of this law they still had a paid coal depot. That 10,000. and this declaration, this statement, which was added, caused that suddenly these people by law, by virtue of this law, were losing their coal debt at a time when the price of coal went up by almost 250%, when companies made several billion profits, when we here, in this Seym, voted together in this House and spent 8 billion PLN on restructuring mining. That was the truth. But that's not all. Going deeper into this matter, it turned out that there was such great disappointment and social dissatisfaction during the implementation of the Act of 12 October 2017, and when it turned out that widows and orphans of miners who died down in the course of their work were not covered by this provision, there were protests. Ladies from the widows' and orphans' association were gathering, establishing an association, reaching out to all Members, asking to take this into account to add it. Ladies and gentlemen, today after a year we receive a bill. We are receiving a bill, Minister, which actually puts another group in some way. We receive a bill in which you actually admit that you didn't cover everyone that you didn't convert, you didn't analyze all the documents properly for 3 years, since 2015. You're talking about the fact that the terms that you've actually pointed out, which we've been paying attention to here, from this stand, and at the committee meeting, are simply unacceptable that 10 or 21 days have turned out to be deceptive, because, as you say, almost 40,000. people did not have time to submit their application. This is clearly stated in the statement that these are the elderly, the orphans, exactly what we said in this meeting here in the High Council. But, ladies and gentlemen, is that all, or is it over? Have there been consultations with the Association of Widows and Mining Orphans? Were these people involved in the work? Did they express their position on the provisions of this law? Ladies and gentlemen, today we do not fully know whether this is clear, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a clear number, if there are more people. Today we do not know what will happen to the mine workers who retired between 2015 and 12 October 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u240	Thank you very much. But one thing we do know is that retired railroaders get a deputy. $250,000. people receive... Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, now has the floor. You're welcome. Mr President, you have used your time. ...every year almost PLN 400 million related to the payment of the deputy. The former miners don't get it. Mr. Marshal! The Civic Platform Club is prepared to work on this law at a committee meeting. [[Applause]] Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the first reading of the government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company, print No 2958. In this context, it should be noted that the Act sets out the rules and means for the performance of compensation by persons who are not employees of the mining company. Here it is important that the future reflection that there was a suggestion and a joint discussion about how the project that was adopted in 2017 was complemented by the most deprived people, namely widows and orphans who were once injured by the fact that the most important person in their lives left working for coal mining, and unfortunately again by the fact that the people who died working downstairs did not have, at the time of the accident, at the time of the coal right, so they did not deserve this compensation. Therefore, we really need to lean on this and thank you for the discussion. It was not very formalized, but I personally know that the Minister was meeting with representatives of widows and orphans. I witnessed this conversation myself, and there is no denying that such a discussion was taking place. Maybe she wasn't very formal, but it was such a human side, human treatment of the issue. What's important? The important thing in all this is that the project should be successfully re-routed. It is important that those who have not been able to submit this request in time - because they are often older people and when introducing the previous solution there are such cases - are also included here. As a representative authorized by the Kukiz club15, I support this project. Of course, I am in favour of referring him to committee work so that he can go to second and third readings as the text is not correct. And here, I would also like to thank the Marshal for the fact that, despite certain seym conditions, a concession was made so that a meeting of the Sejm Committee - the Committee on Energy and the Treasury could take place, so that the process of proceding would be quick, efficient and that a clear message would go to Silesia before Barbórka. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u242	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u243	Dear Marshal, Minister! Honourable Members! In order to speed up this legislative process, I will say that we are in favour of continuing this project. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, it's better late than never, as it's said. It's a good thing this project came here. We remember the discussion in plenary and in committee. The subject was raised even then. Ladies, because they were mostly the ladies who were at the committee meeting who raised this problem. I remember a turbulent discussion in this area. Well, it's a good thing we're regulating this case against this group, because this is a group that is undoubtedly in a worse situation, these are widows and orphans after miners, these are pensioners and pensioners. So it's a good thing we're doing this. Except you need to be here... Because this discussion has already become so political: and this is the fault of the predecessors, you took this away. It was a deal with the miners, and it's a good thing they made a deal. Then the price of coal was dramatically low, there was drama in the mines. If the miners hadn't been dealt with about giving up certain rights... These aren't even privileges. Someone was talking about privileges. These are the laws. In this way, many jobs and maybe even mines were saved. Today we have a completely different situation, but there are problems too. Today, the price of coal is completely different. Coal has a good price, but this in turn causes other problems - it is the price of electricity. And that's also the problem. So that there is no zero-one situation, that someone wants for example. Take it away. These are connected vessels, for example, because many mines have been incorporated into the energy system, and this has been combined. And today this problem is only beginning to be visible and it will continue to function. I think it's going to escalate, as little as possible. The Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will support this project, because there is a certain continuity in what has been started. I think we'll be able to do this quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u246	Thank you very much. 11 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Ladies of the Association of Widows and Mining Orphans! Dear Minister, Turns out pressure makes sense. I am pleased that after a year of battle, many interpellations, seismic speeches, following the current questions addressed to the Minister, the actions taken together with the Association of Widows and Mining Orphans have been successfully presented by the Minister to the High House, which will allow compensation to be paid to the widows and orphans of the deceased miners who have suffered from the rule of law and justice. Minister! I have a question for you. In the impact assessment, which was presented in the annex to the draft law of 20 June, the indicated number of beneficiaries entitled to compensation was 10,000 and the planned expenditure from the budget amounted to PLN 100 million. On the other hand, in the impact assessment of 10 October, it was 24 000. people and expenses amounted to PLN 240 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "What makes you so different?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u248	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. I forgot you. [[I can't hear you. I can't hear you very well.]] Then I'll speak up. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, after many interpelations, requests and repeated announcements by the media, the PiS decided to correct its huge mistake, which was associated with the deprivation of, among others. widows and orphans on miners' rights to compensation for coal depots. Did it really have to be that long, Minister? I wouldn't laugh. Why will payments for new eligible persons be made only from June next year? Because it's an election year? You guys are really happy, aren't you? I would like to ask what documents will be entitled to the payment of the benefit. Will there be regulations on this matter? Is this a discretionary treatment? There is no detailed information on this in the Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Constitutional Minister, still from Silesia, is he still acting like this? Horrible. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you laughing at?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u250	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The element of building respect for you is among others. respect for the obligations that the state and its institutions have towards its citizens. After the terrible governments of PO-PSL in the mining sector, taking over power in 2015, we found huge debts, catastrophic management and crowds of deceived people who were unlawfully deprived of the right to the benefits guaranteed previously. At the first stage of repairing this situation outside the tedious but effective betting on the feet of mines we managed to lead to compensation for unlawfully received benefits from PO-PSL governments. During the implementation of this law, it turned out that some of the entitled were unable to use its records. Today we repair this lack and finally ensure justice. It is particularly appropriate to thank Minister Tobiszowski, without whom it would probably be much harder to solve this burning social problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u252	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this project, expected by a social group, for complementing this previous project. Very, very many people are happy about it. I have a question: Who did the government consult with? What arguments have the Ministry persuaded to create this project, to take legislative action? How many people are interested... How much will this project cost the Ministry and the budget of the State and how many people are interested in this project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u254	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u255	I have a question about how we are talking about mining, maybe not in the context of this law, but if the Minister wanted to provide me with information, in writing, of course - I know that it will be a lot of counting - about all these additional measures aimed at mining within the last period, depending on what form you will have collected this... That's a lot of money. We are often asked: " How much does mining pay for this? How much money goes there? So, fair and square... It's just that I have the opportunity, because I can never hear it. It wasn't really an illegal pickup, as I heard here, that money, it was just such a consensus. The miners, the mining unions, made such a deal with the management boards of the company at the time to suspend it during the mining crisis. That's what happened. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u256	Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act of 12 October 2017 adopted a year ago provided that the funds would be paid, that they would be entitled to pay out 235 000. persons. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how many people have actually benefited from these solutions, which entered into force more than a year ago, and how many people, due to the expiry of these very short deadlines, which were provided for in the previous Act, could not benefit from those benefits and will probably re-submit these applications. In the justification of this law, which we are working on today, you indicate that 24,000 will be entitled. Whereas the question is whether this is really all the people affected by the problem of deputies. This is a problem that we have been dealing with for many years as part of the work of the Sejm, and it would be good to lead to such a situation that right claims, for example. widows and orphans, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will finally be satisfied once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u258	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask you one thing, Minister. Namely, there are many court cases in progress, cases founded by widows and mining orphans. Is the Ministry planning such a relatively efficient information campaign for those who will acquire powers after this amendment of the law? The point is simply to suspend these hearings, which will reduce the cost of functioning of the judiciary in general. This would really be useful, because even in the Hawk itself, I have discernment, there are dozens of things that will start even next month. So who knows if it wouldn't be good if this information was passed on? Wouldn't the Ministry consider this possibility in connection with the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u260	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u261	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister why the Association of Widows and Mining Orphans was not invited to consult this project, since other entities were invited, 39 of them. Who decided and who chose these entities? Second question. Minister, there will be over 260,000 already. people who will make statements and take 10,000, and I would like to hear from you that these people will never again have the right to apply for a coal debt court, that this and the previous laws are eliminating the coal debt for these people, that they will have no right to reach for it. Is it true that in 2017, with the entry into force of this law, 6250 people, retired miners and Rentists from Lublin Coal Bogdanka and Tauron, have definitely lost their deputies? And is it true that [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Katowice Coal Holding extended the period of... It's a three-year suspension of the coal debt. Did you consider that? Did you discuss bringing it back? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u262	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the Law on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal is to complete the process of cleaning up the situation of persons entitled to free coal, which are not employees of mining companies. It is a very important, necessary and long-awaited law, a law expected mainly by people who have been deprived of rights by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. For this bill, Minister, thank you very much. It is a law that restores social justice. Minister! I have questions about that. How did you... What will be the procedure for accepting applications for compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and what action will it be necessary for those who have appealed to the court to refuse compensation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Minister of Shadows - indeed, there is no Minister of Shadows today - did it hurt the widow more when they were taken away from them, or is it more painful at a time when Law and Justice restores them? Where were you at the time when the rights to the coal depot were taken when the miners were shot in 2015? I'm sorry to hear such speeches as Mrs. Navel and Mr. Gadowski. Where was your concern... Why are you laughing? [[Why are you laughing? Why are you laughing at people's drama?]] This is serious. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Minister! Please tell me whether the funds that are secured for this purpose come from the state budget or from companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u266	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski has the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bańkowski. Mr President, nothing has worked here, it has been a professionally prepared law and please do not take any account of employees in the Ministry, do not take away their competences and do not take away from those working in coal companies who have made a great deal of effort to reach the documents. Not that it worked. Nothing works here, it's a professional job in a good team. That's first of all. And there's no pressure, and I would ask you to tell the truth and at least rise above aggression in such matters, to rise above adversities. If jealousy does not allow you to appreciate that, however, we are able to manage and respond to problems... Because it wasn't us, sir, that your formation couldn't do it when it comes to mining, and that's a fact. [[Applause]] And at least you shouldn't speak in this case. That's the second thing. The third thing: I want to say that this is not any pressure, because I have announced this, and not a mistake, but knowledge, experience and knowledge of the subject. And I'm going to say it again, we were ready when there was a budget surplus at 235,236 thousand. Bring in these people today. Why? Because I said it today: these are the thousands of people who are in the various documents whose rights were entered. And we couldn't predict every single person. And you can see how professionally prepared you are to speak about mining - as was managed then. That's why they led to such dramatic situations in Silesia. And I'm surprised you can't respect in this envy that there are people who can manage, and it's not just one person, but a lot. As for Mrs. Navel... It's a pity she left because it's written in the bill, and if she read it, she wouldn't ask for a regulation, she wouldn't ask for a motion, because the proposal is an annex to the bill, it's simple. And ask the question. Someone is performing, trying to be mean, and they haven't even read the bill. And that is the debate with you about important matters. Just to tease, to intrigue and not appreciate that we can solve problems. And talk about someone extorting. No, no one forced it because it had to be prepared, but you need to know it, gentlemen, and you lack that knowledge, which is why you attack and only know how to be mean. And here we have to say thank you and not that at last, because you were picking up. And that's all I'm gonna say. And that's all I'm gonna say: you're writing these interpellations that I'm replying to... And I'm giving you free mining tutoring, and that's why you have any idea about this industry, thanks to my answers, because the questions are so infantile that the staff at the Ministry gets their heads off that people with some experience and education can write something like this. Believe me. [[Applause]] Mrs Teresa Glenc. I'll go to the noblest people in the courtroom. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? [[But how do you get away with answering questions like that?]] Because if you write the same thing six times and you get the answer six times and you write it seven times... [[It's your responsibility to answer.]] And I answer that, Member. And I answer. But I have the right to judge as you judge me. [[I don't have the words.]] [[Not really, not really.]] I have the right. Mrs Teresa Glenc. I wanted to tell you who was consulted. So we've already consulted the bill on the social side, and invited some of the ladies who were interested in the project, the ladies representing the widows' community. In April, in May, we talked about what was going to be in the bill, so the environment was really informed, so I think that the law meets the expectations and at the same time fills the whole system, so it took a few months longer to make sure that we took over all the people who had the competences, the powers they had. As far as Mr Kasprzak is concerned, we will indeed respond in writing. As regards mining measures, Mr Wójcik. About 200,000, yes, 200,000. with a couple of people, that's how much it took to get the authority back then. 14,000. people were late, that's what we know today, we've been diagnosed. It's those people who were late and didn't make it by that deadline that we had in this bill at the time, and that's why the 14,000. people were added to this group and we got 24,000. And that is also the answer for Mr.Bankowski to the right question, because it is justified why it increased. That's why it got bigger, because on the one hand we covered all the widows and orphans, but we also added the 14,000. Of those 10,000 people anyway. We've got 24,000, and that's why we've increased that number. So thank you for that question, too. Mr Wójcik, it is the right question whether it is everyone. Yes, all those who had the authority and were deprived of these powers, not renounced them in some other form. Or when, as employees, they were given collective labour contracts effectively and retired without any powers, we could not include them because it would be unsupervised public aid. This law, on the other hand, closes a group of people who have been deprived of it. Of course we still have mining companies in the SRK system, where ZUS pays it, but this is a procedure to clean up this system, so this law de facto closes this quite, I think, difficult problem and we tidy up this system. Mr Sitarski has asked a very good question about judicial matters. There will be information about this. In order for people to benefit from this, they have to drop the lawsuit, but it's also in the bill that they can't judge themselves. It's under threat of punishment. Because it's then a false statement, a false statement. If compensation is used, it is not likely that once again compensation or any means for deputies will be granted. So it's in the bill and that's the same rule. The same as before. And those who are in litigation today will have to prove to us that they have withdrawn from this dispute, and then they will apply for compensation and have the power and the right to benefit from the relevant provision of the law. Mr. Gadowski mentioned deputies, signing a commitment. The answer is that it wasn't the state that said it, it was the companies. And I think the Member knows that and if he doesn't, I would like to remind him that the companies have said deputies, first of all. Secondly, with regard to the Katowice holding company, it is difficult for the Katowice holding company to say how it was wound up. So companies that have ceased to function no longer have these powers in this process. Mr President, this is basic knowledge of the operation of the mining system today. And I would also like to say that, as far as the KHW and these matters of pronouncement are concerned, these are coal companies, so it was from the state budget, because these are the resources of the state budget, as Mr Matusiak asked. Yes, the funds come from the state budget and this is, as such, called compensation, because we compensate for those rights which coal companies have disposed of by making these agreements in the time of the previous government, without consulting these people, because neither pensioners nor widows were informed that such a decision would be taken. As for Mrs Kozanecka's question about the procedures, we have them in the law. And as you have rightly asked, indeed, it is very important that these two proposals are fulfilled. They're simple. And as in the previous law, in the previous procedure, after the submission of applications and after the evaluation, and the identification of the account, the funds will be transferred to the persons. As far as judicial issues are concerned, it is not possible to be in a dispute with you or with the company, because then the examination of the application will be negative. Thank you all very much for your speeches and thank you also for your speeches in support of this law, because I think that it should bring us together and this issue, I think, connects us, because it is objectively good law. I thank you for earlier discussions, even for those earlier questions that have been asked to ensure that we regulate this issue. I think that this is not a question of election or pressure, it is just a question, as it was then, resulting from the budgeting, because we have grown, as you have rightly noticed, from 100 million to 240, and so we also had to prepare appropriate budgeting, budget shifts. We have also drawn the conclusion that if that deadline was too short, then this term is extended so that we can also possibly invite people who will have some difficulty supplementing the documents, because we are de facto closing this whole system. Thank you all very much for these earlier interventions, thank you for this debate. Happy birthday. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u268	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Paweł Bańkowski. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u269	Thank you very much. Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister, in my statement and in the questions asked, there was no aggression and undermining the competence of the staff of the Ministry and coal companies. I would like to thank you all very much for this great work that was carried out in the implementation of the Act of 12 October. I regret that it was from the Minister's mouth that the words of aggression and were attempts to sort Members, to divide into better and worse sorts, into more noble and less noble. I appeal to the Minister here to lower the emotional temperature and treat all Members of the High House equally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u270	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski refers to his name being mentioned, but that was the answer to your question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u271	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd be very happy to speak with you in substance, but you didn't actually answer my questions, and you're starting to bother us. Or you didn't understand the question, which is simple and clear, because I asked whether this statement, which is written, subsequently entitles those who apply for the 10,000, to any claim of their rights in the courts or not. Are those over 6,000? people from the Katowice holding company, not from the Katowice holding company, but from Bogdanka and Tauron Extraction, have completely lost carbon sales? So far it has been paid to them. You don't really refer to matters, you just bounce off a wall and you don't know what phrases you don't know what they're aiming for. I'd ask you to answer our questions in detail, not to refer to who's better, who's worse, who asks if they're not asking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yes, we are. You're here to answer in writing as well as orally from this bleacher. [[We don't give tutoring.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u272	Thank you very much, sir. [[I do not expect your tutoring.]] The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company, contained in print No 2958, to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen! Since it has been convened - in a moment - the Senior Convention, I will begin the point that is foreseen, but then I will have to announce a 10-minute break, as I inform those of you who are waiting in the Chamber. I understand that Mr. Stanisław Swed will fit in these 10 minutes, because it will be in 10 minutes or even 7 minutes. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services (print No 2987). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, which is the implementation of the so-called. maintenance package contained in the document adopted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2017 A review of family support schemes. Parents' commitment to their children is fundamental and impossible release them from this obligation. It is the parents who, in accordance with the provisions of the Family and Care Code, have the right and obligation to take care of the child, and it is the parents who have the primary responsibility to provide the child with the means of subsistence. This obligation applies equally to both parents, whether they live together or separated and regardless of which parent the child lives with. It is unacceptable that one parent or both parents shirks their obligation to put on a child, explaining that they do not live with a child or have difficulty finding a job. A situation in which one parent fails to fulfil his obligation to maintain a child results in the child's need being hindered. A maintenance debtor who does not pay alimony deprives his child of prospects, deprives him of his opportunity to develop and puts him in a worse position at the start than children from families who are not affected by the problem of non-alimentation. At the same time, the situation on the labour market has improved and unemployment is falling and it is increasingly easier for workers to find legal jobs that match their qualifications. In addition, steady wage increases are recorded. Therefore, it is difficult to find any excuse for parents who claim that they cannot find legal employment while actually working in black and earning illegal income and thus throwing the entire burden of supporting the child into a second parent. It should be pointed out that although the collection of the State budget's claims on the maintenance fund's benefits paid over the last 3 years has increased by nearly 100% , of less than 13% in 2015 to 33% in 2018, is its level it should still be considered unsatisfactory. The total amount of unenforced maintenance debtors' obligations to the Treasury arising from the payment from the State budget of benefits in replacement of unpaid maintenance is still very high. The amount of debt only for liabilities to the new maintenance fund at the end of 2017 amounted to more than PLN 10 300 million. Therefore, in order to ensure a further increase in the collection of child support, as well as in the State's budget due to the State's budget for the replacement of unpaid maintenance benefits, it is necessary to make further changes. The draft law includes, in particular, arrangements for improving the flow of information between the relevant services and institutions and judicial bailiffs on maintenance debtors, including information on their taking up employment. Its aim is to introduce tools to strengthen the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. The proposed law introduces solutions for the smooth obtaining of information by bailiffs, as well as their constant updating, on the income of maintenance debtors on the basis of the Social Insurance Institution's data. The bailiffs will obtain information from the Social Insurance Institution by electronic means, while the Social Security Office will update data on the maintenance debtor at least once a month in case of changes in the insured account. This will allow the bailiff to act quickly against the maintenance debtor in the event of legal work being undertaken by him each time. As regards the amendments to the Implementing Penal Code, they consist in making available the State Labour Inspection data on the whereabouts of maintenance debtors subject to a penalty for restricting freedom in the form of electronic surveillance. Other changes are also made that are described in the explanatory memorandum. As regards sanctions, it is proposed to extend the material responsibility of dishonest employers by introducing changes to the Labour Code. In the case of employment by an employer of a person in the National Debt Register because of a breach of maintenance obligations without written confirmation of an employment contract with the employee, and when the employer is unfairly paying to the person in the National Debt Register because of a breach of maintenance obligations, a remuneration higher than that resulting from the contract concluded without deduction of maintenance benefits may be imposed on the employer in the amount of PLN 1500 to 45 thousand. zł. It is also proposed to amend the Civil Procedure Code by increasing the amount of the fine to 5 000. PLN for an employer who has not fulfilled the obligations relating to the occupation of the maintenance debtor by the bailiff. At the same time, it is envisaged to increase the amount of the fine to which the court is competent up to 15 000. zł. It is also proposed to amend the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions, according to which the organiser of public works will be required to employ maintenance debtors first. This means that one of the conditions for such employment will be to hold alimony debts and guarantee the right to employ such persons. The project also envisages a change in the income criterion that entitles you to benefits from the maintenance fund. The maintenance fund benefits will be granted if the income of the family per person does not exceed PLN 800, which should increase the number of children benefiting from these benefits by around 60,000. It is proposed that the increase in the income criterion should apply from the eligibility period starting on 1 October 2019. The impact on the state budget is PLN 77 million in 2019 and about PLN 260 million in 2020. These are the main changes we propose. We assume that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2019. As regards the amendments to the Labour Code, they will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House to accept the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u274	Thank you very much, Minister. Once again, I inform you that in connection with the convocation by the Marshal of the Seym of the Senior Convention, I am announcing a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 31 hours 15 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 22 of the agenda. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Robert Warwas, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance benefits, Parliamentary Printing No. 2987. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill consists of 10 articles and deals with the creation of solutions for a more effective professional activation of maintenance debtors in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, and constitutes implementation of the so-called. The maintenance package contained in the document adopted by the Council of Ministers review of family support schemes. As the Minister mentioned, the need to amend the current rules is affected by the fact that there is an unacceptable situation in which one of the parents evades the obligation to lay down on the child simply because he does not live with the child or claims that he has difficulty finding a job. In addition, the maintenance debtor, without paying alimony, consequently deprives his own child of his prospects and thus deprives him of his opportunity to develop. We've been seeing unemployment falling for a long time. Workers are getting easier and easier to find a legal job. As we read in the explanatory memorandum attached to the project, the recovery of the State budget for the maintenance fund's payments has increased by 100% over the last 3 years. - of less than 13% in 2015 to 24.9% In 2017, however, this level should still be considered unsatisfactory. In order to ensure a further increase in the collection of child support, as well as the State's budget due to the State's payment of non-paid child support benefits, it is necessary to make further changes. These changes will continue the efforts to improve the effectiveness of the execution of maintenance, introduced by the Law of 23 March 2017 amending the Penal Code Act and the Law on Aid to Persons with Child Support Rights, which established clearer and unambiguous rules of liability for the purposes of Article. 209 of the Law of 6 June 1997 on criminal offences of non-alination. The project also offers an opportunity to develop solutions to improve the flow of information, as it proposes first of all to clarify the rules that allow for electronic exchange of information. The proposed changes also include sanctions imposed on employers for the illegal employment of maintenance debtors. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed law introduces solutions for better obtaining by bailiffs information on income obtained by maintenance debtors based on the data of the Social Security Office and their constant updates. Introduced above. regulations will also allow effective implementation of new sanctions in the form of fines against unfair employers employing maintenance debtors in black. In addition, the project assumes an increase in the amount of the income criterion entitlement to maintenance fund benefits from PLN 725 to PLN 800. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At a time when the number of incomplete families is growing dynamically, which is happening at the expense of innocent children, the increase in collectionable debts from apostate parents' maintenance obligations is disproportionate, the subject requires further action. Aliments aren't a voluntary matter for parents. It's their duty to their children. The Government of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Family and Labour must lead to total opposition to the situation so far, when it is allowed that parents use a number of runways that do not comply with their obligations to their own children. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports all activities aimed at the welfare of Polish families, and in particular children, who, due to the situation in which they were not found because of their own fault, are not given the same opportunities for development as in the case of children from so-called. families full of them. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of a government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance benefits for further legislative work to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u276	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u277	Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to this law, we read: "The obligation of parents to a child is fundamental and there is no possibility." release them from this obligation. A maintenance debtor, without paying alimony, actually deprives his child of prospects - taking away his opportunity to develop and putting him in a worse position than children from families who are not affected by the problem of maintenance. The debt of parents who do not pay child support is estimated differently, but all these estimates exceed PLN 10 billion. If we're after VAT fraudsters, there's no reason why we shouldn't... or there's no reason why we're not pursuing maintenance debtors in an absolutely effective way. We consider not paying alimony as a crime to be a step in a very good direction. Similarly, good solutions, steps in the right direction are electronic, immediate, free, online information of bailiffs by the Social Security Office about the financial and employment situation of the debtor. This is a good step proposed by this law: to extend the execution by 50% of the mission allowances where these missions or allowances are a significant part of the salary of such a earner; to amend the implementing code by making available the data of the State Labour Inspection and the bailiffs on the place of detention in the form of electronic supervision of the maintenance debtor; to activate the profession and to recognise as a statutory priority the employment of maintenance debtors in public works. These are all good steps going in the right direction. But is it enough? On 14 November 2018, more than 43 NGOs sent an open letter to the President, Prime Minister, Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, the Minister of the Family, and MPs, in which we read: In connection with the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the so-called. the maintenance package without taking into account our previously sent position on the income threshold for assistance from the maintenance fund, we have to express firm opposition. We read: There is no and will not be our consent to treat independent parents and their children as inferior and to apply perfidious economic violence to them. The increase in the threshold by 75 zlotys is regarded as demeaning, demeaning and intended only to fake actions for families of independent parents and their children. It is difficult to disagree with this argument, especially when we compare the proportion of the income threshold to the lowest national one. In 2007, when we were introducing a maintenance fund as a Sejm, the lowest amount that could be earned was PLN 936 and PLN 725 was the income criterion for aid from the maintenance fund. That was 85%. Today in 2019 - 2220 PLN is the lowest amount, and in this solution we are discussing, the government proposes 800 PLN income criterion. It's easy to see that it's not much more than 30% of this amount. We are and will support the demands of the group I was talking about, which were also expressed in an open letter concerning the abolition or determination of the income threshold of the maintenance fund up to a minimum of 100% the lowest national. These are solutions that will really help over a million children who today do not benefit from a maintenance. We're gonna be behind every solution that's gonna pull the maintenance debtors' responsibilities. In addition, during the work of the committee to which we are directing this project, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy will also bring a number of solutions developed by [[♪ The bell ♪]] NGOs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u278	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Barbara Chrobak, who represents the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not hide the fact that our citizens' movement Kukiz.15 looks favorably at the changes that are taking place in the area of alimony collection. A couple of months ago on TV. I saw a man dressed in expensive, colorful jackets, wrapped in bracelets, who didn't even hide in public with the fact that he didn't pay alimony. The same man without any shame reached for the money he collected in cans supposed to defend democracy and the constitution. On the same non-paying alimony, a man who doesn't get his hands dirty with a regular 2,000-dollar job. zł, a fundraiser was held, giving him a scholarship of freedom. This man, the recent leader of the total opposition, was the hero of all the allies, was the guru of all the smart guys who live well, leaving their children in poverty. He was the leader of the civil movement, which showed how to live comfortably, while stealing from citizens, the youngest to whom alimony is ordered. And the government, ladies and gentlemen, showed Mr. Kiev and all the others a similar red card. The article has been amended. 209 The Penal Code, the condition of persistence has been eliminated, and the responsibility has been materialized by the introduction of a zero tolerance for allies, which means you're not paying, you're a criminal. And what did it turn out to be? Suddenly, gentlemen found the money and started paying. In the first year, the downloadability has doubled and continues to increase. The situation is even worse when it comes to debt to the State Treasury, which is still more than 10 billion. The proposed project is intended to further improve the situation. It gives bailiffs a new IT tool to quickly obtain information about maintenance debtors. It contains a solution limiting the silent contracts between employers and authorising officers aimed at not transferring paid wages, withholding too low or lack of information on the occupation of wages in the work certificate. For such conduct, dishonest employers will now suffer the consequences. In fact, the law provides for much more of these sanctions. It is expected, among other things. responsibility for hiring allies in black. The most interesting solution for the project is public works. The municipalities suffer from lack of hands when it comes to sweeping the streets or cleaning up the squares. We'd love to see these Kiev men and others with brooms and shovels. We appreciate the changes positively, although our concerns are the valorization of the income criterion which entitles us to benefits from the maintenance fund. This amount rises from PLN 725 to PLN 800. In our view - and I am speaking here as President of the Parliamentary Group - the welfare of the child as the highest objective - this correction should be higher, not only 75 PLN. Therefore, I ask for information on what group of children would gain if this criterion were to be shaped at the level of 900 PLN. We call for an increase in further work of the income threshold to 900 PLN. In short: it's a good project, good solutions. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of its adoption. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u280	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u281	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The project we are discussing today, aimed at improving the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, introduces some very expected changes. I talked about them during the revision of the Penal Code in March 2017. They have been the subject of the Association's demands for alimony are not gifts and many other organizations. Firstly, according to the project, the electronic communication system between the relevant services and judicial bailiffs will be improved. The Social Security Office is to update the data relating to the maintenance debtor that are transferred to the bailiff at least once a month. Secondly, an important aspect of the project is to address the issue of effective professional activation of the debtor, which can significantly improve the collection of maintenance and at the same time help debtors to exit the debt spiral. Thirdly, we also support the tightening of penalties for unfair employers and the verification of the legality of a convicted person's maintenance obligation, which should contribute to the reduction of employment in the grey area and the showing by employers of the true earnings of debtors. The income criterion for applying for a maintenance fund is expected to increase by PLN 75 as announced by the government, i.e. from PLN 725 to PLN 800. Ladies and gentlemen, this is dramaticly low. 800 zlotys a month per family. Please use your imagination, ladies and gentlemen, and imagine a parent who earns 1650 PLN, raises a child alone and does not receive a penny from another parent. A single parent earning a minimum wage still has no chance of supporting the state. The threshold does not increase according to the minimum wage. Target, the role of the maintenance fund is completely missing out on reality. You're saving yourself at the expense of the people most in need, the people in a dramatic situation of life. I know what I'm saying because I've been a single mother for many years, and I've been in a similar situation. A real, important change in raising the income threshold or abolishing it is called for by the parents of one million children and many social organisations. Years of neglecting such benefits have caused parents to prefer to work in black at times. A well-functioning state should never force people to make money that way. Well, despite all these comments, that some of the demands of the Association of Aliments are not gifts and many other organizations have been taken into account by the Ministry. That's why we want this bill to be continued, with the amendments that my club friend will introduce. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, also the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u283	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Most of these are good steps to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. Unfortunately, there's an art in all of this. 7 amending the provisions of the 2007 Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance and the new wording of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which speaks of a profit criterion. Benefits from the maintenance fund shall be granted if the income of the family per person does not exceed PLN 800. Yes, you have raised the amount from PLN 725, but what you are proposing still excludes a parent with one child in the case of so-called. minimum national. If the minimum remuneration, as announced by the Ministry, is PLN 2250 gross since January 2019, i.e. about PLN 1634 net, then with two people in the family this will give the amount of PLN 817 per person. Once again, as in the case of providing 500+, a parent with one child earning legally in Poland will not get state support because it will exceed the permissible income by 17 PLN per person. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern amendment to the law which raises this income criterion up to PLN 1000 per person. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Marshal. Now I'm explaining why it's important. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the government, listen to me. Anne is 22 years old and a 4-year-old daughter she's been raising since birth without a father. He lives with his mom and three siblings in a 2-room communal apartment. They have a blue card. Father Ani was removed from his apartment. He abused alcohol and used physical and mental violence. He's been raiding the family a lot so far. There's the police. Four-year-old daughter Ania is allergic and is under the care of a psychologist in relation to her family situation. Ania's doing everything she can to get herself out of a toxic house. Her strength is the daughter she lives for. After many part-time jobs, the employer is determined to give the girl a chance. Ania gets the lowest national, which means she loses her maintenance fund and gets a negative answer from the office, in which she seeks a separate housing unit from the city's resources. It does not qualify for high income. Having 1634 zł, he is unable to rent an apartment on his own, pay for his daughter's medications, kindergarten and usually in the world to stay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are your suggestions for families like Mrs. Ani's family? Please support this amendment. Let's help this girl and other families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u284	Thank you very much. Madam, you can make an amendment at a committee meeting or at a second reading. Now we have our first reading. [[Okay, thank you.]] Mr Krystian Jarubas from the Polish People's Party will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u285	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, print no. 2987. Ladies and gentlemen! The amount of child support in 2015 was around 13%. Today it's about 25%. As you can see, further steps must be taken to effectively assist in the execution of maintenance services. That's the idea of the bill. I understand that one of her assumptions is that bailiffs should be able to obtain more efficient information on the income of maintenance debtors. That's a good thing. A major change, particularly severe for maintenance debtors from such professional groups as e.g. Driver, there is a proposal that the bailiff will be able to occupy up to 50% allowances received in respect of missions. In the case of travelers travelling on international routes, such diets often far exceed the basic part of the salary. Ladies and gentlemen! The project also aims to increase the income criterion for maintenance fund benefits so that the aid is as high as possible. There are also provisions in this Act that do not concern the debtor himself and his employer. Of course, black employment should be severely punished. According to the proposed wording of the Article. 281 § 2 and 3 of the Labour Code, the financial penalty is to be from 1,5 thousand. PLN to 45 thousand. zł if the illegally employed employee is included in the National Debt Register because of maintenance arrears exceeding 3 months. Employers will also feel more acutely the consequences of failure to comply with the obligations of the bailiff to pay the parent. If they do not provide the enforcement authority with adequate information about the employee, they will not give him the amount directly deducted or it will be too low, he may fine the company up to 5 000. zł. In the view of employers' representatives, there may be some danger of this. Family law experts predict that this will be interpreted as an excessive burden on employers. Consequently, this may result in the fact that persons who are maintenance debtors will not be taken into account by employers in the employment decision of a person. As it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, from logic, this may limit their ability to pay alimony. The basic question is, what then? I hope that in the course of the work on this law the doubts will be resolved. We support the referral of the bill to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u286	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now, will now speak!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, everyone here in the courtroom, as it turns out, has the same opinion - that it is very important to take care of this matter. We support most of the articles that are in this project. However, the dishonor for our country is that in 2018 we talk about this all the time. The fact that it wasn't dealt with, and the whole time a million kids don't get money from their parents, they don't get alimony, they're just insulting and unworthy. In fact, all men who do not pay child support should be condemned by the Polish society, they should simply, I don't know, be subject to some social ostracism. To be honest, I am surprised that most of the public is in favour of pursuing those people who do not pay child support as quickly as possible, most of the population is in favour of condemning them, but nothing is happening. That's why it's so important that you take all the responsibility that a million children don't get what they deserve all the time. As far as the law is concerned, there are some good things in this law, such as. electronic communication system, activation, those amendments that concern the activation of the debtor's professional activities and penalties for employers who hide those debtors. Of course, that's a good step. On the other hand, it seems that we no longer have time to prolong the infinity of waiting for single parents to finally begin to influence this money. Therefore, what my colleague from the Civic Platform has already said here is very important - this letter of 40 organisations, which appeared a few days ago, is very important, and which clearly speaks of two postulates. I think that we should discuss them in the committees - I hope that these committees will be held - and do everything we can to keep these demands... [[It's done.]] ... Just realized. What do these organizations demand? Let it simply sound out loud: abolishing the income threshold or setting the income threshold for the maintenance fund as a minimum of 100% the lowest wage that will allow parents and their children to live with dignity. This is one of those demands. The second is the request to amend the provision of the Law on Aid to Persons with Child Support Rights in such a way that the threshold authorising assistance from the maintenance fund constitutes a percentage reference to the lowest remuneration until it is abolished and can be valued with the rise in the lowest remuneration. We can't afford this million children in 2018 to be treated as a worse group all the time. It's outrageous that it hasn't been done before, and we talk about it all the time. That is why I have a request to the Ministry to take these comments into account, to talk about it, and even to organize a public hearing with those organizations that - and there are more than 40 of them - speak very loudly about it... [[Voice from the room: There were hearings.]] ...and they've been fighting for it for many, many years. I know there have been hearings, but if we're still debating this and this debate is going on and on and these changes are going so slowly, let's all do something together, over and over, because we all care about it. Let's do something to make it change. A group of millions of children are simply treated as a worse group, and I find that unacceptable. I call on us to do this together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u288	Thank you. Now Mr Robert Majka, an independent Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as the proposal under consideration by the High House is concerned, I believe that it is very important, but I will refer here to the important issues raised by your minister concerning the fact that unemployment is falling in Poland. I must say that there are examples of this in Poland, Minister, that this is not true. On 2 August 2017, Mr.Ryszard Jach was employed at the Geological Institute by the chief geologist of the country. And please bear in mind the fact that on 4 August 2017 he received a contract of employment and termination on the same day. This is a scandal for the Polish state, Minister. This is proof of how things are handled. Mrs April of Law and Justice - this is very important - said the following fact: we live in a banana republic. This is very important, Minister. Why is Mr. Richard Jach treated like this? That's because he's demanding criminalisation, punishing the first president of the Supreme Court prof. dr hab. Margaret Gersdorf. And one last thing. If the Minister is talking about the fact that there is very little unemployment in Poland, then I will give you an example of my humble person. From 2017 until my appointment as a Member of the Republic of Poland I was unemployed. Why? Because I was and am against the formula of General Czesław Kiszczak, which means we do not touch yours, you do not touch ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u290	Thank you. The questions were raised by 11 ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. First, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u291	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, mothers who raise children alone are reporting to my parliamentary office and, unfortunately, have lost their right to alimony from the maintenance fund because they do not meet the income criterion, their income has exceeded it by several or a dozen zlotys. And I have a question for you. Will the Minister listen to the voices of non-governmental organisations and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child who are calling for an increase of this criterion not by PLN 75 but by a greater amount? The point is not to punish single mothers for being on the labour market, wanting to work, wanting to earn a decent living and to provide for their children. Is it possible to apply the golden rule here? The aim is to reduce the amount of child support granted by a few or dozen zlotys if the criterion is exceeded? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u292	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maintenance debts this year continue to exceed PLN 10 billion. Nor is the number of cases involving the execution of alimony falling, with nearly 600 000 of them each year. The government wants to make further changes. That's good, but aren't they apparent changes? Alone, single parents believe that raising their income threshold by PLN 75 after 11 years is their limitless disregard. In addition, parents with one child will only get benefits from the fund for one year. As early as 2020, they will lose their right to benefits again as the lowest wage of PLN 1634 is planned to be set in 2019. Why, on the basis of what calculations, was the increase in the income threshold set at just PLN 75? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The alimony specialists repeat that the first step to improving the collection of money for children is to change human mentality. The point is not to treat non-payment as an expression of the so-called. Life's cunning. Hence my question, Minister. What further action is envisaged by you against the so-called. organized debt support groups to which the current partner, employer, parents enter? They cover the debtor and praise him for the cleverness shown in failing to comply with the maintenance obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u296	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice. The Member has put the question in writing. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u297	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! This change is only an increase of PLN 75, although the government promised real support for these families. This is not a real change. In December 2017, the downloadability doubled from 13% to 26%. That means that the payments to the maintenance fund have increased by more than 100%. , while the income threshold - only 10%. My question is: Why did you not raise this threshold so that it would be a real increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u298	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u299	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Experience is as I observe that debtors are looking for different ways to avoid paying child support. This is a drama for the parent himself raising children. Most mothers are affected, but fathers are also affected, and only children suffer from everything. Second thing. A parent who pays child support also wants to see his children, but it happens that meetings with children - and I mean fathers - make it difficult for them to have children. Dad pays his alimony, loves his kids, wants to see them. And now to the point. In view of the underpayments made by employers of maintenance debtors, the proposed regulation should be assessed positively. I am therefore interested in whether the Ministry has statistical data on the scale of employers' underwage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u300	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's hard to resist the feeling that when it comes to alimony, you care more about chasing a bunny than catching him. Sharpening penalties isn't gonna make things any better. Everyone generally knows how to minimize this phenomenon, because it did not succeed anywhere in the world. And, Minister, I have three very specific questions. When are we finally going to start a real discussion about the maintenance table created in the German model or in the case of other European countries? When will alternative care be given priority by the Polish courts, because it really addresses the subject of non-alienation completely? And the third question is, when is the crime of parental alienation, which is to prevent one parent from having contact with a child... [[That has nothing to do with it.]] ...will be punished at least as much as not a maintenance? [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u302	Thank you. The question is asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the already mentioned here from this speaker 75 PLN, i.e. the difference between the amount of the income criterion entitled to benefits from the maintenance fund and the amount of the criterion which is applicable when determining the right to receive an education allowance for the first child. This amount of PLN 75 has already appeared. But there is another condition. This levelling of the amount of the criterion will only take place from October 2019. So really, it's a group of about 60,000. The children will have to wait a year to benefit from these regulations. Why, for example? otherwise you haven't established and you won't enter these records. as from 1 January 2019 Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u304	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u305	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We learn from the media reports - the question is, of course, whether this is true - that 25 million zlotys are going to receive special housing allowances for state security officers. The money will be shifted from the reserve for financing the programme, for the life of providing assistance to terminally ill and disabled children. And now the first question: Is it true? And if so, then please, Minister, say, not even to me, but to mothers who raise children alone, especially children with disabilities, since the program does not need funding from the reserve, then would it be possible to make this money, i.e. 25 million PLN, allocated to the support fund for children with disabilities? I'm talking about this income threshold, raising the income criterion for single parents raising a disabled child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u306	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Raising the income criterion to 800 PLN, i.e. to the amount that eliminates people earning the lowest national, seems to be some kind of premeditation. The question is whether Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the prime minister of social affairs, identifies herself with this solution because we do not see her here today. I think that her sensitivity should also encourage you to raise this criterion. You said that the download rate is increasing by 100%. And now you're assuming that you're going to get some sort of indicator, some results, which means that the state's maintenance fund expenses are going to fall. So if you put a certain balance in the deficit of this fund, that amount should be higher. That's my question. What does it look like when it comes to cash flow in the event of this fund? What are the results and how does this translate into a possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] the average amount that could go to the families?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u308	Thank you, sir. Please answer the questions asked by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting our bill. We are moving on a very important but difficult subject, and I think that even though in the club's questions and speeches there was a topic related to the income criterion, there are many other good solutions in this bill that have to significantly improve this system and, above all, improve the accountability of maintenance. And that's the main goal. Maybe before I move on to the criterion, I will make some general comments. One of the Members spoke about punishing the employer. There's no punishment for employers here. If an employer acts honestly, no punishment will happen to him for it. And we know very well that today, in many cases, it happens that unfortunately, employers pay child support by hiring them for the lowest benefits or even for underemployment, and the rest by paying under the table so that they do not pay the maintenance funds. So that here we take such action, so to speak, absolutely eliminate. As far as income criteria are concerned, I'll give you a few facts. The first thing is, the state often referred to the minimum wage level. There is no situation that the minimum wage, both now at 500, on the 500+ programme and in the maintenance service, will cause someone to lose his entitlement by earning it. He won't, because we're counting the income. At the same time, the project we are talking about will include revenue from 2018, when the minimum wage is at the level of PLN 2100. Net is below the expected criterion at the level of PLN 800. At 500, it's the same. Well, that's not an option, then. Of course, with regard to the next year, we will be thinking about raising the income thresholds so that this does not happen. In this case, in 2019 this situation will not be at both the maintenance fund and the educational programme at the level of PLN 500. Here it is worth recalling and saying that if we compare in absolute figures 2015 and 2017, the increase in funds for family policy for single families is three times, from 2 billion to almost 7 billion PLN, i.e. a huge increase in funds that are aimed at families. We are aware that, of course, for many families, these are not measures that are at a satisfactory level, but this is a huge step forward that we have taken in the last 2 years, and now three years. And those changes that we are proposing are also moving in this direction. The collection rate increased from 13% to 33% in 2017, but this does not mean that funds are coming into the fund, because it is only 33% of 100% the payments from the fund are still higher, they are still higher. [[Sure.]] So we've got gaps all the time, over 10 billion that we're talking about here. We don't know exactly what group it's touching. You use the information here that this applies to 1 million people, we have information that the number of maintenance debtors is at the level of 274 thousand, the number of beneficiaries of benefits at the level of 267 thousand. Whether it's 1 million, or if it's 600,000, or maybe more, we don't know that, we don't have that kind of data. As regards issues relating to whether or not the maintenance tables, which the Member asked whether it was with alternate care, the Ministry of Justice is currently working on proposals for changes and I hope that these changes will be presented to you during this term of office of the Sejm. Someone was asking about the amount of money, what if we raised it to 900 zlotys. We'll prepare for the committee's reckoning meeting so we can see how much we're talking about right now. We're talking 75 zlotys. In 2019 it is 70 million, in 2020 with this assumption that is more than 250 million, but I can assure you that there will be no such situation that, if the minimum benefit increases, this will result in a reduction in benefits or a fall out of the system for both the 500+ programme and the maintenance fund scheme for persons who would receive minimum benefits. Once again, thank you all for supporting this project, and the rest will be in committee. [[Minister, what about the life program?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u310	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The effectiveness of child support is the state's eternal Achilles heel. I think every government is ambitiously trying to solve this problem, but if it didn't work out, it doesn't work out that way. The changes proposed by the government today in some laws seem to be going in the right direction and claim that the retrievability of maintenance will be significantly improved. The draft law focuses primarily on creating solutions to improve the flow of information between relevant services and institutions and judicial bailiffs. This includes information on maintenance debtors, including information on their taking up employment. It is first of all proposed to clarify the provisions that allow for electronic exchange of information. Thus, it will be possible for bailiffs to obtain and constantly update information on the income of maintenance debtors based on the data of the Social Security Office. Maintenance debtors are often employed in black. Such action, even though it is illegal, can be convenient for some employers and workers. It reduces the employer's employment costs. At the same time, the responsibility of such dishonest employers is negligible. Expanding the material liability of dishonest employers by introducing appropriate changes to the Labour Code to ensure that an appropriate financial fine can be imposed on them, should be significantly reduced. Changes to the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions, according to which the organiser of public works will be required to employ maintenance debtors in the first place, also seem to be a good solution. This means that one of the conditions for such employment will be to hold alimony debts and guarantee the right to employ such persons. At the same time, it is planned that the Minister responsible for Labour, when allocating funds from the Labour Fund to finance the activation of the unemployed, should take into account in particular the activation of maintenance debtors. And the question is: What effectiveness do we intend to achieve in the collection of child support through the proposed changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This proposal contains a package of very important regulations on difficult social matter, which is the problem of prosecuting people who are not under maintenance obligations. The proposed measures provide for the introduction of provisions aimed at employers who, by under-wage, allow their employees to effectively avoid enforcement activities. The idea is right in its idea, and dishonest employers should be responsible for such practices. However, the problem arises with the practical application of these provisions. The point is to prove that a person was actually employed in black or that he received a higher salary than the employment contract established. If the State Labour Inspection does not catch such an unfair employer in the act during the inspection, it is only possible to rely on witnesses. How does the legislator intend to verify such events? What effective employer control system will be put in place in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. Children are our future. Care for them and their fate should be a priority for all of us, especially for their parents. However, as practice shows, not everyone can take on the responsibility of parenting. It's because of the immature adults that children suffer. I am pleased that the current government places such great importance on, for example, a small amount of financial security for our minors. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that he is a member of the United States of America. the scheme that has been in operation for 3 years and the so-called "500+' programme. a maintenance package to improve the recovery of outstanding maintenance. Last year, we tried a law that tightens the criminal liability of those who deliberately refrain from regulating their children's financial obligations. According to the Ministry of Justice's data, this law has increased the effectiveness of child support collection by 100%. This is a good result, but in my opinion it is not sufficient. Aliments in Poland only pays about 1/4 of those obliged. I therefore welcome the solutions discussed today. One of them is to enable bailiffs to collect free of charge and in electronic form the debtor's data that are not in line with maintenance obligations. The information thus obtained on the employment and income of maintenance debtors will allow for a rapid response, which, in my opinion, will have a positive impact on the effectiveness of the bailiff's actions. In addition, it is also envisaged to introduce the financial liability of employers who employ maintenance debtors in black and propose changes to activate debtors in public works. I am convinced that each of these solutions, thanks to improving the collection of maintenance charges, will meet with good acceptance by single mothers and fathers, who now have the burden of supporting the child themselves. I also have no doubt that the change that these parents expect is to increase the amount of the income criterion which entitles them to receive benefits from the maintenance fund from PLN 725 to PLN 800. The Free and Solidarni circle, of course, supports this project in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u314	Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Marshal, just one more sentence. I don't have the information that these resources are being moved anywhere else. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]] The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of maintenance services, contained in print No 2987, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Code of Penalty (Print No 2878). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project submitted aims, firstly, to eliminate unauthorised interference in the condition of the counter, to reverse it, secondly, to increase the certainty of consumer turnover, to avoid such a situation, because those who often devote their life's work put in place many years to acquire the desired four wheels, unfortunately fall into the hands of fraudsters and find those who use this type of unfair practice in order to obtain the property benefits. According to the statistics of the European Union, up to 20% of cars in the country have reversed, twisted counters. When it comes to cars crossing borders, the data is even more alarming: every other car, about 50% cars crossing the border have recuperated counters, while information from the German area, which reaches us, shows that almost 90% Cars imported from Germany may have recuperated counters. So this is a huge social problem, a huge economic problem for all those who purchase used cars. This change is therefore expected, proposed and finally becomes a reality. The project involves two very important changes. The first, as regards the criminal element, introduces a new offence, a new type of prohibited act consisting, first, of an unauthorized change in the indication of the motor vehicle's speedometer, secondly, of an unauthorised interference in the correctness of the measurement of that trafficometer, thirdly, on the order of such activities to another person. With regard to new infringements, we anticipate that unauthorised replacement of the road-meter will be a breach and failure to comply with the obligations relating to the interchange procedure will also be a violation. Therefore, these criminal provisions will provide for a sentence of between 3 months and 5 years respectively, and in the case of minor acts they will also be punishable by other penalties, such as a sentence of limitation of liberty or a fine. In the event of an offence, a fine of up to 3 000 will be imposed. Or punishment. The second element of the proposed amendment is the new administrative obligations imposed on vehicle owners, vehicle owners and relevant State services. What will they depend on? First, the owner or holder of a vehicle, if it replaces the counter with a new one, shall be required to present it within 10 days of its replacement at any vehicle inspection station - either a base station or a district station - in order to read the indication of the newly mentioned meter together with the unit of measurement by the authorised diagnostic. That's one thing. Secondly, he will be required to make a declaration on the exchange of the traveler under penalty of criminal liability for false testimony. That's two. Another obligation imposed on the owner or holder of a vehicle will be that the replacement of the road-meter will only be possible in two cases: first, where such a road-meter does not measure the vehicle's course properly in the situation in which it should be done and secondly, where it is necessary to replace the vehicle component with which the road-meter is inextricably linked. The replacement of the tracker, that is obvious, can only take place on a tracker that is efficient and appropriate for this type of vehicle. Duty imposed on the service. Police, Border Guard, Road Transport Inspection, Military Police and Customs Department receive new read-out rights in each controlled vehicle and transfer it to the central vehicle register during each roadside inspection. Whether the vehicle is registered in Poland or abroad, whether it is unregistered, whether it moves alone, or e.g. is imprisoned on a lava or towed, also such privileges indicated here will be granted to the services. As regards these issues, I would like to point out that the portal run by the Ministry of Digitalization www. The vehicle's history. gov.pl, which already functions as a free report implemented from the central vehicle register, will gain a new quality, because this information, which we are talking about here, after each exchange, will be transmitted to this portal. As a result of these changes, the portal will also contain data on the indication of the vehicle tracker read during the inspection by these services and diagnostics, regardless of whether the vehicle is registered in Poland or not. So there could be a situation where a German citizen is staying, for example. in Poland on holidays, during routine road inspection the state of the counter will be checked and will already be visible on this portal by the central register of vehicles. If he sells such a vehicle in the future, he will have a clear story behind him. The project was subject to inter-ministerial agreements, opinions and public consultations. Comments were received on the project submitted by a number of resorts, all of which were taken into account. The project was adopted by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and then by the Council of Ministers, taking into account the comments of the Governmental Legislative Centre. Therefore, I kindly ask you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u316	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Traffic Law and the Law on Criminal Code, print No 2878. We are dealing in Poland with an unauthorised interference in the indication of the vehicle's mileage counter, which has taken on a very large, even pathological scale in recent years. With such interference, it is simply that such action, unauthorised action, brings property benefits in the sale of the car as a result of misleading the buyer, mostly that. Without a doubt, it must be assumed that the course of the car is one of the essential elements affecting the assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle. And the way the vehicle is operated has a direct impact not only on the wear of individual components, but also on its overall technical condition. Ladies and gentlemen, receding the counter is simply a scam, and I think we can all agree on that, so it's certainly a good thing that this bill makes such actions subject to criminal proceedings. The proposed amendment is intended to fill the existing gap, guaranteeing the certainty of trading and preventing fraudulent, fraudulent practices selling motor vehicles. At the same time, the amendment is intended to eliminate the practice of offering services to lower road signs in a mechanical vehicle, which is currently impunity-free. The project counteracts, in short, the change in the direction of the motor vehicle. The project counters - if the law is passed, such things will be punished - interference in the correctness of the measurement of the measurement of the motor vehicle. Also, people who will interfere with the tracker, and walks e.g. To order this to such people... Such persons will also be subject to criminal proceedings. Penalizing these behaviours, it was considered that they would constitute offences punishable by imprisonment from 3 to 5 years. The same is true in several European countries: France, Germany, Austria. Depending on the country it is a prison sentence for 5 years for 3 years or 1 year. The project imposes obligations on owners or owners of specific vehicles, whether registered in the Republic of Poland, abroad or not, and this applies to all vehicles subject to mandatory technical testing. In summary, it must be concluded that the non-execution of the design bans and orders in the form of an exchange of a roadmeter contrary to the provisions of the Act, the failure to present the vehicle at the inspection station to read the newly mentioned road-meter together with the unit of measurement, to prevent the diagnostic reading of the indication of the road-meter concerned, together with the unit of measurement, to make a declaration of replacement of the road-measuring unreal as to the content, preventing the authorised authorities from checking the road-measuring of the vehicle, the towed vehicle or the vehicle carried along with the unit of measurement from reading the vehicle owner or vehicle holder of the vehicle's criminal liability for the offence with Article. 97. The project, of course, gives additional competences, as the Minister has already said, to state services, i.e. police, Road Transport Inspections, Military Police Department, Border Guards, Customs and Treasury Services. The project will, of course, be examined further, this is the proposal and position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and we encourage all States to examine this law thoroughly. On behalf of the parliamentary club, I am in favour of further proceding this good for society, for road users of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u318	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law contained in Parliamentary Printing No 2878. This project deals with the phenomenon of unauthorised interference in the traffic meter, i.e. in the indication of the vehicle's mileage counter, a phenomenon which, as mentioned several times here, is a huge nightmare for all the buyers of used cars. It is also implementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers. The common term used to describe the counter twisting for the indication of a lower course and thus misleading the buyer is, of course, a fraud, of which no one in this room has any doubts. There is also no doubt that the perpetrators of this act fulfil the signs of the offence of fraud set out in Article. 286 § 1 of the Penal Code. However, judicial practice encounters obstacles in the current legal order, which cannot be eliminated, which the applicant rightly points out in the justification of the project and which he also wrote about in interpellations to the Minister of Justice, Mr Krzysztof Brejza from the Civic Platform. Well, the difficulties of proof arise in determining the perpetrator of this counter twisting in situations where the car does not come from the first owner. This, unfortunately, makes it more difficult, and sometimes even makes it impossible, to identify the perpetrator, as a result of which the victim of this crime remains without real tools to enforce his rights. Therefore, it is appropriate to consider the proposal for criminalisation, first, to amend the indications of motor vehicles, second, to interfere with the correctness of the measurement of the mechanical vehicle and, third, to order another person to modify the indications of the mechanical vehicle or to interfere with the correctness of the measurement of such a roadmeter. However, in addition to imposing specific orders and prohibitions referred to by the Deputy Minister in his speech, owners or holders of vehicles, the project also imposes new obligations on specific entities and services and gives them new powers. Namely, the project requires, for example, the transmission to the Central Registration of Vehicles of data containing the date and reason for the exchange of the road-meter and the indication of the said road-meter together with the unit of measurement, the Police, as well as the Road Transport Inspection, the Military Police, the Border Guard and the Customs and Customs Service, to be authorised to read the indication of the road-meter of the vehicle, the towed vehicle and the vehicle transported. Of course, these data will then be transmitted by the services to the Central Vehicle Registration. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law should be assessed positively, and no major comments and reservations were made to it, so on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club I request that this proposal be directed to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u320	Thank you. Please take the floor of Paweł Szramka from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speakers have already described in detail the design and assumptions that are written in it, so I will not repeat it. I don't think any of you will be surprised that, of course, Kukiz15 will support the further process of this project. I agree with all the arguments. If someone's a fraud, they should be caught and punished for it, of course. Therefore, there is no doubt here that we should continue to work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u322	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and the Code of Criminal Print No 2878. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill, which was presented to the High House, concerns a very important social problem, with which, I think, anyone who had ever dealt with the purchase of a vehicle, because I am sure he heard the question whether by accident the meter in this vehicle was not manipulated, the word is commonly used, the expression "twisted." As this has become a common practice and extremely burdensome for people who want to buy a car, something had to be done about it, and it is precisely this need that this challenge is met by the draft law presented by the government. This project, I share the opinion of my previous speakers here, is as expected, in fact it will solve the great majority of these problems which Polish drivers face every day. What are the solutions? First of all, the Act introduces the obligation to record the course of the vehicle. This will be possible in several stages. First, at the vehicle inspection station, the person who performs this test will be required to enter into the Central Vehicle and Driver Recording System information about the vehicle's course, which is shown on the road-meter. Secondly, and I think this is very important, the government has proposed that the services that carry out road inspections, e.g. The police, the police, the police have also been able to control the course of the vehicle on the road and, as a result of this check, to introduce information into the electronic systems. This means that the course of the vehicle will be possible to determine at many stages of use of the vehicle. In addition, this information will be displayed in the ICT system, on a website that every user will have access to, so it will be possible to verify the mileage of the vehicle and, more importantly, the history of the journey using the Internet. I think this solution responds to today's challenges. On the one hand, the control and information introduced into the system, on the other hand, the possibility for drivers to verify this information. I'm sure the people who want to buy a car want to make sure that the router's indication is true, and they're waiting for the solution that this bill should put in place. Of course, where obligations are imposed, rules should also be introduced which will force the application of these arrangements, namely criminal rules, and it can be said that, in connection with the introduction of these provisions, behaviours such as the replacement of a roadmeter contrary to the provisions of the Act, or the submission of a statement which contains unrealistic, false data concerning the conduct of the vehicle, or the prevention of authorised inspection authorities in the course of traffic control of the reading of the indication of the roadmeter of the vehicle will give birth on the side of the owner, the vehicle holder of the criminal liability for the offence with Article. 97 Code of Offences, i.e. for an act involving an offence against other provisions of the Road Traffic Law or its provisions, punishable by a fine of up to 3 000. Evil or punishment. Is this bill, this proposal, going to solve all the problems? I think that no, there will always be a way to circumvent these rules, but I think that is a step in the right direction. On behalf of Modernity, I request that this bill be passed to the committee for further work, while at this stage our assessment is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u324	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u325	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government project we're working on is two areas. Firstly, it enables people to meet social expectations and take into account the comments and conclusions they have received from numerous motorization environments, and it is rare that someone in this area is not interested, because, as we know, for the last 20, 30 years not everyone has always been able to buy new vehicles. Secondly, it will allow some regulations to be sealed, which will help to eliminate this phenomenon as highly adverse in both social and material terms. The Minister, as well as my previous speakers, presented practically all the themes, aspects, provisions and regulations that have been included in this project. Our club agrees with them, supports them and advocates moving on to the next stage of committee proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u326	Thank you very much. We've finished our club appearances. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel. There is no Member. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask how these solutions are addressed to European standards and whether we have benefited from these standards and how others do so in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u328	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is well known that the owner of the vehicle enjoys twice: how he buys and how he sells. Of course, the point is that the joy of buying a used vehicle is not distorted. In fact, villainy should get the status of a crime. And that's good. On the other hand, you said that most vehicles that go to Poland have a twisted counter. That's what you said, so that means that we are dealing with a business that is essentially carried out outside Poland. And here are the following questions. First, are there similar regulations in Poland? Secondly, are we really going to eliminate this phenomenon when it takes place outside the country and the acquisition of the vehicle is carried out by an intermediary? Can you justify that we will actually be able to do this through our regulations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u330	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u331	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about sanctions related to these fraudulent practices relating to changes in the indication of mileage counters in cars, which burden the buyers of vehicles, exposing them to significant financial losses. The information so far shows that, most often, such fraud is punishable by probation. That's about 85%. all penalties for such fraud or similar. And here's the question: Wouldn't it be more severe to impose sanctions for such fraud of records directly referring to the application of appropriate financial penalties? They would probably have to be dependent on the degree of social harm of such fraud, but we believe that they would also constitute a psychological barrier to fraud, such as twisting counters. Doesn't the Minister think that financial penalties would be more appropriate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u332	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u333	...would cause a drop in the number of such frauds? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u334	I ask you to ask Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The state in this project provides that the control of the state of the meter will be carried out by the services, among others. Police. Minister! I ask you to explain how this is going to be done technically, because in the case of the police, these are hundreds of millions of vehicle inspections per year that are being carried out. And now the question is, will a police officer have to write down the state of the counter and enter it into the CEPiK to verify whether it will only be exceptional cases in which the state will be written down? I would like to ask if you were counting the costs of this solution, as well as whether you were analysing how long it would take a police officer to type the counter into the CEPiK, because these are the next duties that are imposed on officers, duties that are not actually directly related to the tasks of these police officers. And the question is: [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've predicted the cost... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u336	Thank you. The question is asked by Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, the information you gave, that 90% Cars purchased on the secondary market in Poland have backward counters, it is really shocking information, so this solution may be a salvage in connection with the pathology associated with the car trade that we are observing. But I wanted to ask you something else. The diaphragms, the owners of the diagnostic stations, who looked at the process of this law, began to raise the issue of costs. The point is that they would have to bear some additional costs related to the provisions of this law. So I wanted to ask: What will this issue look like when the counter is replaced or when the car is reviewed at the diagnostic station? Who will bear the costs of this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u338	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u339	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, you were talking about these mass phenomena that mainly concern imported cars. Such a term: majority, 90% And he doesn't say much, which is why I want to ask you what the numbers are -- as far as the cases are concerned, because there are, of course, some cases where it's not said -- which are about this kind of thing. What is the Minister's assessment of how many of these cases, of course, can be avoided? Because it shows the scale of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u340	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: How will this work in practice? Someone's finding out he's got the counter back in his car. What should he do then? What is the guarantee that a person will not be punished? Some may simply fear that they will go to vehicle control or be checked on the road, it will turn out that they have, have a car that has a undone, adjusted counter. And then what? How, if any, can we find out who is responsible? By verifying the number of contracts previously concluded for the sale of this car? I am talking about this practical aspect, so that the Minister explains that the issue is also clear to car users, because, as a rule, these solutions are very good and very necessary - it is for clarity - but it is a matter of calming the citizens down so that it is clearly presented and explained what the procedure will be specifically. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u342	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Piotr Pyzik's question concerned European standards and the solution to this problem in other countries. The same is true of the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic tests on the road performance of motor vehicles and their trailers. In recital 25. The directive states that fraud should be regulated in the form of fraudulent conduct, which should be treated as a criminal offence subject to sanctions, since manipulation of the course may lead to a misassessment of the state of the airworthiness of the vehicle. Further, the detection of manipulation or interference with the counter status should be facilitated by recording the mileage in the Roadworthiness Certificate and accessing diagnostics to this information. So much European Union law and so many neighbouring countries' systems. This practice, such unfair practice, is subject to criminalisation in German law, Austrian law, Czech Republic and Slovakia. As far as these legal systems are concerned, we're dealing with crimes involving the fact that... In Germany, pursuant to § 268 The behaviour of producing false data on the mass or number of measurements made by the device, which are wholly or partly recorded automatically by the device, shall be validated. These statistics I quoted come from the ADAC system; this is the German vehicle registration system. They indicate that losses, as ADAC calculated, are up to EUR 6 billion due to counter fraud. That's one thing. Secondly, it does lead to 90% of this kind of situation going to our country. Meanwhile, as our research shows, the analyses we've been doing, this problem in Germany, even though it's criminalized, has not been fully resolved correctly, because the turning of the counters occurs after the vehicle has been registered. Then the vehicle disappears in Germany from the records available to the services, available to citizens, and in such situations we are dealing with the counter twisting. We are going further than in the case of a European Union directive. I believe that these provisions are better than those in Germany. We simply seal the system and in no way will we be able to do this kind of fraud with impunity after these changes have been introduced in our country. Another question, Mr Wilczyński's question, was whether we would eliminate this phenomenon when there are already laws in our country that provide for appropriate solutions. I'm saying this kind of thing. Today it is completely impunityless in our country and in no way is it possible to record the state of the counter on an ongoing basis, in no way is it possible to draw consequences for people who, for example, offer such a service. We can find a lot of ads on the Internet. Our employees today, before the meeting, counted nearly 80 offers on the OLX portal regarding the numerator correction service. On Allegro, the results of the search for the password In the search engine these results go into thousands. This is a fairly common practice. Therefore, its effective pursuit is virtually impossible. However, if we impose appropriate obligations on the owners of vehicles, we will tell them what the owner, the owner of the vehicle can, and what he cannot, when he has to return the vehicle to the diagnostic station, report an exchange of the counter... Let's start with when the change of the meter is allowed at all. Only in two very specific cases. Today there are no rules at all in this regard. If we further correlate this with the responsibilities of diagnostics, with the responsibilities of the relevant services and introduce such solutions, the system in our country - in our country, I repeat - will be tight. Of course, we are not responsible for the fact that it operates differently in Germany. I'm sorry, because time is slowly passing. I've got a signal. [[No, it's still...]] However, it will be possible to eliminate this from us, if we can prove it, of course with expertise - there is criminal proceedings, judicial proceedings, expert opinion - we will check whether there has been interference in this type of mechanism. It's not easy, I'll tell you right away. It's hard to prove that at first glance. In older cars, of course, we can check it through the dashboard, but in newer cars we have this type of signals occurring in many different modules, in many different places of the vehicle, in a distributed way: in the car key, in the numerator, in the engine controller, in navigation, in many different drivers, programs, modules. This system is scattered, so that here, of course, law enforcement authorities, courts will be sentenced to the assistance of experts, experts. The next question was asked by Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska, who drew attention to the punishment. The question was why there is no fine here. I will answer this question immediately, in this way: a fine can be fined - from the general rules. Art. 37 and Article 37 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to We did not deliberately enter this sentence - there is only a sentence of imprisonment up to the years 5 - because we suggested the current wording of the article. 270 § 1 of the Criminal Code, which provides for for forgery of documents. This behavior, like the forgery of documents, is carried out, as it were, on the prefield of fraud. For this, the Supreme Court commended us in its opinion. He said the Ministry of Justice picked a very good punishment. It is the sentence of imprisonment up to the age of 5 that is the most appropriate punishment. So that there are solutions to fines in the general provisions, Madam, and of course they can be applied, and as for this solution, this is a similarity to the forgery of the documents referred to in Article. 270 Penal Code, and so did we. Mr Mark Wójcik's question about police duties. How long will it take a police officer to enter such information into the database, and why should police officers do so? Mr President, the police officers' duties are governed by the Police Act. The main tasks of the police are to protect property from unlawful attacks affecting these goods, protect public security, and finally initiate measures to prevent and interact with public authorities, local authorities and social organisations in order to prevent criminal offences and criminal phenomena. And I don't see anything strange about the police being able to type information into the database, I repeat, she could, and she didn't have to. We deliberately introduced an option, not an obligation, depending on the situation, on the need, on the recognition of an officer. Mr Edward Sulphura asked about the costs. The costs - these are agreements with the Ministry of Infrastructure - will amount to approx. 50 PLN for this type of service. I understand that it is about putting the vehicle in a diagnostic station to diagnose it, in order to write down the state of the counter, at the moment when the owner or owner of the vehicle declares that he has replaced such a counter for the two reasons that I had just mentioned, the reasons that the meter misdiagnosed the mileage or that there was a failure of the module inherently related to the meter. And only in these two situations will it be necessary to report to any diagnostic station within 10 days and then the diagnosis will charge, probably in the amount of PLN 50, that is still at the stage of the arrangement, for this type of service, and additionally will be the obligation to make a declaration under criminal liability as to the accuracy of the declared statements by the vehicle owner or owner. Mr Józef Lassota asked about statistics. These statistics have already been presented, they are derived from the information provided by the ADAC system, the German system, they are available in the media and also from the information provided by the European Union during the drafting of the directive I mentioned. Similar statistics are used by European Union organisations. And last question, Mr Grabowski's question. How can citizens be reassured against threatening to press charges because they didn't know? Of course, Mr President, the situation in which I acquired the vehicle and had no opportunity to verify the condition of the meter does not attract, does not involve any criminal responsibility for me. If I acquire a vehicle in good faith and have been provided by the seller of a vehicle with such, and not another condition of the counter, I acquire it in good faith, then of course no one is liable for criminal liability in this respect. I don't even have to take any special care, I mean. The citizen will not have to run to a diagnostic immediately after the acquisition of the vehicle to check the state of the vehicle or the condition of the meter, whether to run to a private expert and consult some opinion, pay for some expertise, opinions on whether or not I will be exposed to criminal charges. Of course not, no one can be charged in the situation in which he acquired a vehicle from the so-called. It's a hidden defect. It will be a legal defect, a hidden defect, a defect in a vehicle that the buyer of the vehicle was unaware of. And of course, he is protected, protected by good faith, and there are no sad consequences for him. On the other hand, any omission in terms of administrative responsibilities - because this is what the Member's question was going to do - will be treated as a misdemeanor. And we deliberately imposed a more lenient sanction. About which omissions Did I say that? This is because there may be a situation in which the citizen will be late, for example. with an exchange, it will exceed that 10-day deadline or e.g. will replace the vehicle tracker against the provisions of the Act, will be late with the counter change, e.g. with a declaration of this fact for diagnosis - but it will only be a code of offenses. If someone does not present the vehicle or presents the vehicle at the inspection station after the deadline for the authorised diagnostic of the reading of the indication of the road-meter together with the unit of measurement, it will only be a misdemeanor. Finally, if someone makes it impossible for the diagnostic to read the indication given by the meter together with the unit of measurement, it will also be a misdemeanor. If a person does not make a written statement about the exchange of the traveler or makes an unrealistic statement on the content, it will also be a misdemeanor. Finally, if someone makes it impossible for the appropriate services to carry out this kind of reading, he will also be responsible for the offence, which is a fine of up to 3,000. Evil or punishment. So all these administrative obligations relating to the holder or owner of the vehicle will be sanctioned only as a criminal offence, up to 3,000. zł fine. We purposely introduced this in order not to stigmatize citizens who will either make an exchange of the road map contrary to the provisions of the Act, because they do not need to know the specific provisions of this Act, in which circumstances such exchanges can be carried out - even though we are already conducting this propaganda action, we inform about it - or they will be late for example. with the vehicle presented for diagnostics, so that it will only be a misdemeanor. On the other hand, the conscious order of acts consisting in twisting the counter, e.g. The mechanic, unauthorised interference in the measurement of the speedometer or, thirdly, the unauthorised change in the indication of the speedometer will be a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 5. A minor case, a sentence of limitation of liberty, a fine or a sentence of imprisonment up to the age of 2 will be reserved for situations that are not so drastic. What kind of cases could that be? It is difficult for me to prejudice at the moment, because, of course, the general indication of what is a minor case is the role of prosecutor and final judge, while the minor cases are also provided for in the Code. And here is the punishment of the limitation of liberty, fine or imprisonment until the age of 2. So that you should note that we have specially distributed a number of responsibilities, we have adjusted them to the penalties so that these penalties are not too draconian and at the same time that the system is tight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u344	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is intended to be a clear signal, which will clearly oppose the unsavory practice of reversing motor vehicles' counters, which unfortunately continues to be a plague on the Polish secondary market. However, the proposed rules do not seem to cover the pool of solutions. Polish law applies in Poland, but e.g. in Germany or in other countries from which many cars ride on Polish roads, receding counters is already severely punished. The point is, the threat of high punishment does not deter some dishonest entrepreneurs. Does the government plan to introduce solutions that include e.g. long-term bans on any business activity related to the automotive industry for persons who in any way (from the company's owner's level to the mechanics) will be associated with the manipulation of the course of the vehicle?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u346	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm forward a draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and the Penal Code in print No. 2878 to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration with a recommendation to consult the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (print No 2985). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Marek Chodkiewicz to present the justification for the bill. [[Time out, Marshal. Oh, no, it is, it's coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Council of Ministers adopted a draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws submitted by the Minister of Infrastructure. The project involves changes to the vehicle technical testing system. The solutions adopted should improve road safety and environmental protection. The new rules also adapt Polish law to solutions adopted in the European Union. According to the project, the organisation, operation and supervision of high-quality vehicle technical testing systems, as well as operators operating vehicle control stations and diagnostic training centres will be responsible for Transport Technical Supervision. It is a subsidiary of the Minister of Infrastructure. Until now, the supervision of the operators operating the vehicle control stations was up to 380 starosts. However, the Supreme Audit Chamber has negatively assessed the performance of some of them. In addition, the survey carried out by the Minister of Infrastructure on new tasks resulting from the implementation of Directive 2014/45/EU has provided information that old age may not be able to carry out tasks imposed on Poland by Union legislation. In turn, diagnostic training centres operate on a free market basis, but without any supervision. This results in poor preparation of candidates for diagnostics and translates into low passability of exams. The project therefore provides for a coordinated system for the training of diagnostics working at vehicle control stations. These are specific requirements for training centres - infrastructure plus lecturers - and efficient supervision of them. A system will also be set up for conducting appropriate examinations and compulsory training for both initial and cyclical diagnostics reminding and expanding knowledge about vehicle design and the way in which they are tested. The Director of Transport Technical Supervision has been entrusted with the supervision of the diagnostic training system and the operation of diagnostic training centres. The new requirements are a consequence of the guidelines laid down in European Union legislation. The Director of Transport Technical Supervision has also been appointed to maintain the National Contact Point responsible for the exchange of information related to technical testing of vehicles with the other countries of the European Union and the European Commission. The solutions proposed in the project aim to improve road safety and environmental protection by sealing technical testing systems; to improve the quality of diagnostic work, the level of their qualifications and competence and to improve the reliability of their technical tests through the introduction of mandatory periodic trainings for them; to improve the level of road safety and the safety of the trading of vehicles on the secondary market by subject to special supervision of the verification and control of the state of the vehicle counter of the vehicle control stations and the registration of CEPiK 2.0 ; increased availability of data for citizens and entrepreneurs through the introduction of a vehicle inspection station register by the TDT Director, currently operates 380 vehicle control station registers; increased quality and reliability of tests by requiring periodic checking of calibration and maintenance of control and measurement equipment and archiving of test results; improved environmental status by reducing the average level of emissions resulting from the detection and elimination of vehicles with malfunctioning emission control systems and the elimination of leaks causing leaks in toxic liquids, leaks in gas installations as well as causing excessive noise; changes in vehicle control stations which will affect the higher quality of the technical tests carried out and involve the elimination from road traffic of vehicles in poor technical condition, which should increase the level of road safety. In order to meet the expectations of operators operating vehicle control stations, it is envisaged, among others. reducing or abolishing the fees they incur while maintaining the current toll rates charged to drivers for the technical tests of the vehicle. At the same time, in connection with the implementation of EU legislation, operators operating vehicle control stations will be responsible for the so-called. a qualitative fee intended to improve the operation of the vehicle technical testing system. The final amount of the qualitative fee of not more than PLN 3.5 will be set out in the implementing act, namely the Minister of Infrastructure Regulation, and will apply from 2020. The amount of the qualitative fee will depend on the amount of revenue generated by the fee for technical studies carried out after the deadline, namely the 45-day deadline, since it is assumed that the main source of financing of the system for ensuring high quality technical tests will be the fee for technical studies carried out after the deadline. The revised solutions are to apply 3 months after the date of publication in the Official Journal, except for parts of the rules that will apply in other time limits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u348	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present a position regarding the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, print No 2985. The project concerns the creation of a coherent system for the supervision of technical testing of vehicles and the operation of vehicle control stations to ensure a high level of technical testing and to improve road safety. The project under investigation is intended to allow for a smooth response in the event of irregularities, to eliminate them and to prevent and operate irregularities related to the conduct of technical tests. The EU Directive 2014/45/EU, as in the previous 2009 Directive, sets out the minimum requirements for the technical testing of vehicles necessary for the introduction by individual Member States of the Union, creating a framework for the establishment of a proper and efficient system for the operation of technical tests on vehicles. At the same time, this Directive gives Member States the opportunity to tighten up their requirements due to the specificities of their national infrastructure and the structure of their means of transport, resulting in national differences, inter alia. concerning the scope and frequency of the technical tests. This law also takes into account technical developments in the field of automotive and once again regulates all issues relating to the system of technical testing. In order to implement the Union Directive, the proposed solutions provide for the establishment of a coherent system for the supervision of vehicle technical tests and the operation of vehicle control stations to ensure a high level of technical tests or, I repeat, improvement of road safety and the prevention and elimination of technical tests. In view of the fact that the system of technical tests in Poland requires a thorough conversion, this law contains provisions which go beyond the requirements of the EU Directive. Solutions outside the scope of the Directive include, inter alia, the following:: introducing, clarifying or updating definitions of concepts such as: the tram, trailer, semi-trailer or bus, as well as the provision relating to the technical tests of agricultural tractors and trailers in infrastructure other than the vehicle control station, technical tests or approval tests. The most important changes made by this project are due to the obligation to implement the Directive. The implementation of this EU-level act aims to achieve the basic objective set by the European Commission, namely the zero vision that EU countries should reduce the number of fatalities in road transport to almost zero by 2050. The vehicle technical testing system is part of a wider system to ensure that vehicles are kept at a safe and acceptable level from the point of view of the user. It should be pointed out that, in view of the new concept of a system for ensuring high-quality technical research, the Director of Transport Technical Supervision has been given a new opportunity - to spend funds to cover the costs of development work to improve road safety, including the technical state of vehicles. The indication of this possibility is dictated by the continuous development of technology, especially of the automotive industry. The creation of a central surveillance of technical testing of vehicles in the form of a TDT-separated surveillance cell is included here due to the organisational bases. The existing regulations for the supervision of vehicle control stations have been substantially amended, and these changes are intended to ensure, as I said, an improvement in safety. The draft also sets out the existing provisions for obtaining diagnostic powers and the circumstances relating to the exercise and monitoring of the profession itself. In view of the obligations imposed by the Directive, the TDT Director will exercise control over the diagnostic environment and the legality of their decisions. Minister! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above position, the Law and Justice Club supports the Government's draft Print Act No 2985. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u350	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The draft law is contained in print No 2985. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This time, under the pretext of implementing the EU Directive 2014/45/EU into Polish law, the government proposes revolutionary changes in the organisation of the vehicle technical testing system and in carrying out these tests, significantly beyond the requirements of the Directive. The power of the proposed regulation to supervise vehicle control stations will be transferred from old age to Transport Technical Supervision, thus limiting once again the competence of the local government, this time the district government. How symptomatic for the PiS government. After the acquisition of voivodship self-government competence in the field of the national environmental fund, agricultural advisory centres and water drainage units, these are further. It would be interesting to answer the question of why you did not come out with this initiative before the local elections, just after. This concerns almost 29 million vehicles, including more than 22 million passenger vehicles. In fact, the effects of these changes in the law will affect the owners and owners of these vehicles. The cost of the proposed changes amounts to more than PLN 2600 million on a 10-year scale. They mostly hit entrepreneurs running vehicle control stations and vehicle owners. The cost is more than 100 times higher than it currently is when it comes to the implementation by the budget governor. In 10 years the cost will be PLN 23 million. The so-called quality fees constitute a new public tribute. The additional costs associated with the training of diagnostics and operation of the CEPiK system are over PLN 155 million. This data is from a report prepared by Professor Paruch. The project submitted is another example of the oppression system for entrepreneurs and diagnostics, as well as for vehicle owners and owners. The penalty fee for failure to perform technical tests within a specified period is another example. High Seym! The proposed regulation is extremely harmful. The bill is a denial of the rights of entrepreneurs contained in the business constitution. The fees for technical tests are very low. They haven't been colored in 14 years. In this proposal, you also refrain from valorization, even valorisation by a minimum increase in consumer prices. The project was negatively assessed by the association of vehicle control stations, by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as by the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers. The position of my club will be expressed at the next stage of the work on this project. The amount of the proposed fee of PLN 3.5 is not justified. Analysis indicates that 2 zlotys is sufficient height. The project also proposes to deprive the diagnosis of acquired rights. Minister, what direction are you going with your proposals without respect for acquired rights? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u352	Thank you. Please take the floor of Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with a project that was supposedly consulted in some way with the industry. As far as I am concerned, from the mass of messages I receive, also from personal conversations with these people, it appears that what you are letting into the legislative process has nothing to do with what has been consulted so far. So I suggest that we take into account the advice and knowledge of practitioners and not just theorists, because I know that in writing everything can look nice. Those who work in this industry are saying that it will be harmful, that it will create a very big disturbance. Without proper public consultation, we are unable to support this project. I propose to appoint a subcommittee, but not to call it the next day after its appointment, but to give time to prepare, to inform all interested parties, so that this subcommittee can participate, so that this project is actually refined so that we do not have another amendment in a moment, just as we have in the case of the Supreme Court. It is better to sit a few days or a few weeks longer on a given project, but to work out good solutions and not later to correct it several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u354	Thank you. And a supplementary statement, Mr Paweł Grabowski, also the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr Rozonec, you, too, have an important appeal. Dear country, this is the implementation of the EU Directive. As a rule, the Polish Parliament is obliged to implement those EU rules, which are formulated in directives, and I will draw attention to two things. Industry entrepreneurs are talking about adopting a model: directive plus zero. First of all, I think it would be worthwhile for you to consider the possibility of adopting such a model at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. This will be in the middle of a debate. I just have a call for this debate to take place at a committee meeting or possibly a subcommittee to be a peaceful debate, without haste, calmly. And listen to the state of entrepreneurs and the social side, because it doesn't always have to be that you're right, that you're the only ones who're right. That's one thing. Second thing. In this form, these regulations lead us to one of the two models. You are probably familiar with the Turkish model. The point is that vehicle inspections are actually carried out by one of the German giants. However, knowing your approach to such large corporations, I wonder if sometimes you would like to introduce the PRL model, which is to say simply that this country will take over one... is to eliminate a certain branch of the economy, and to nationalize it so that the state institutions will review vehicles so that the state has as much control over citizens as possible and can interfere with their lives. The question is, is this the model we should be going to? State? To put it simply, ladies and gentlemen, do you wish to nationalise the vehicle control stations, at all, the technical state of the vehicle control system? Because if so, then make it clear: there are thousands of entrepreneurs out there who are about to wind up their business. Perhaps you would like to take over the proverbial zloty of these companies, for which they often spend hundreds of thousands and sometimes over 1 million PLN. That's it. Let this be said on clear, open, fair rules: you want to eliminate the industry, you don't like the fact that there is a free market in this area. At least then the situation will be clear. So, to conclude, my dear country: there is no agreement of the Kukiz Club15 to adopt the rules in this form. Fortunately, we have only the first reading at this point. I hope, once again, that the project will go to the committee, that there will be a substantive, fair, calm discussion among experts and specialists. I'm not a specialist in this field. I am pointing out more other political aspects here. Perhaps at some moments I do some sketches, but I would simply like to draw your attention to the fact that the problem is reported and on the one hand concerns the safety of all road users, but on the other hand it also concerns one of the fundamental constitutional principles: freedom to conduct business. As long as this freedom does not have to interfere with the safety of vehicles and road users, we should maintain common sense and balance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u356	Thank you. Now please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, print no. 2985. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law submitted by the Government to the High House concerns changes in the vehicle technical testing system. Today, this regulatory system is based on the 2009 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers. On the other hand, a new directive was published in 2014, which precisely defines the operation of periodic airworthiness tests on motor vehicles and their trailers and at the same time repeals the 2009 Directive. What is worth noting, this Directive was to be implemented in Polish law by 20 May 2017. It's the end of 2018, and it's a year and a half dead. This is another important regulation, because it is indeed worrying about road safety, safety and the technical quality of vehicles, so the delay in adopting such essential regulations for the health and life of citizens is really worrying. I must say that, of course, the provisions submitted to the High House contain a minimum of - and I will get right to that - the provisions of the law, that is to say, the designation of an authority which will be responsible for the management of the technical research system, the creation of consistent supervision of this research, or the creation of a system of training for diagnostics. Of course, everything would be okay if it weren't for the PiS government's tradition to go beyond the minimum framework of the directive and, secondly, the policy to alienate self-government on the one hand, namely to deprive self-government of further competences and, on the other hand, the policy to crush all entrepreneurs, i.e. to add more and more new responsibilities, new burdens that actually hinder business. I must say that if this directive were implemented in a form which is minimally based on the content of the directive, no one would have any objections, but it is absolutely worrying to build up this legislation that interferes so far with the freedom of business in the whole system. I must say that I share the concerns of the entrepreneurs who are doing this difficult business today. The State imposes new bureaucratic obligations on them not only under the specific rules but also under the general rules. All these burdens that you have imposed on entrepreneurs over the last three years also apply to those entrepreneurs who run vehicle control stations. But in those three years, you haven't found the time to at least make some compensation for the increasing costs. You have raised the salaries of employees, the costs associated with the media - all of this results from your solutions. These increases all Poles feel, while vehicle control stations all the time, despite the new obligations, have the same rates. This isn't right. I would like to say that these provisions, which you have put forward, go far beyond the European Union Directive. This is another example of the fact that this - I would say - tendency of Law and Justice to bureaucratise the state is taking another form, precisely in this law. The cost of the proposed solutions is more than PLN 2.5 billion over 10 years. These are the next billions of zlotys that you will pull out of the pockets of Poles, from the pockets of entrepreneurs, i.e. de facto this is the new tax that you impose on Poles. Even though it's probably 40 tax, you can't stop. You hit Poles with another tax. Those regulations that you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...decided not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u358	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law submitted by the government, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, involves changes in the vehicle technical testing system, and the solutions adopted meet expectations due to the need to improve road safety, are also designed to protect the environment and to comply with the provisions of the Directive. That's all right. We are just asking ourselves at the next stage of this project's analysis why we cannot support local governments, complement this and identify those elements which government estimates do not implement or implement at the wrong level, but take away these competences and hand them over to the Director of Technical Supervision. This is quite interesting - already my previous colleagues pointed out - that this is practically another area in which the government cannot establish relations with the local government to carry out many tasks within the broader public administration. I still think that as the work on the bill progresses, we will not have to rush and we will not have to prepare for the next session of the Sejm after the committee's meetings ready to adopt and vote. We are in a hurry, but, as my colleagues pointed out, also when they asked questions, why it was not a month earlier, six months earlier, a year earlier, after all, we all care about safety and our environment. Therefore, if there is a justification for raising the level of provision of these services, of accessories, of improving the systematic qualification of diagnostics - all agree - then the question remains who will pay for this and where these 2600 million will be taken for 10 years. Therefore, I think that in this form, with this content, and with these records, this project is unacceptable to our club. I believe that changes can be made in the course of the work and that the subject and the question of not taking the tasks of local governments from this area will also be considered. Self-governments have shown for so many years that they can be useful, have a relationship and do their job, so I think they need to be respected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u360	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles... [[Voice from the room: It was.]] Excuse me. Let's move on to asking questions. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. Time - 1 minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know where this revolutionary idea came from to transfer the oversight powers of the old-fashioned vehicle control stations to Transport Technical Surveillance, but I know whose pockets the money will come from. The proposed scope of the changes will result in an incomparable increase in the functioning of the whole system and these costs will be borne by the Pole, the taxpayer, the entrepreneur. Under the pretext of implementing EU law, the government wants to introduce changes that are even incompatible with it. They also conflict with the business constitution and introduce a new tax, i.e. a qualitative fee. Why are many communities, including the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, not taken into account? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u362	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This important project concerns the creation of a coherent supervisory system, among others. the technical testing of vehicles and the operation of vehicle control stations to ensure a high level of technical testing and to improve road safety. My questions. What it looks like to build such systems in other European countries and what lessons we learn from this in order to build our Polish system, especially in terms of the coming synchronization of all these European systems into a single European system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u364	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The problem of supervision of vehicle control stations was discussed in the State Control Committee when discussing the NIK report on this matter. I raised the question that Transport Technical Supervision is actually a very small service: it's probably 300 people on a national scale, I don't remember exactly. In any case, giving them these powers regarding the supervision of vehicle control stations is like building this service completely, completely reinventing it. She, for example. operates only in seven branches in the country, these branches comprise two or three voivodships. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the expenses for this will be considerable. That's about PLN 55 million a year for 10 years, so that's a lot of spending on this change. Of course, it is worrying why the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises has given a negative opinion [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project. Please explain why.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u366	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u367	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, asking questions about why you're doing this is a little pointless, because you know why you're doing it. You want all this under the government administration because you believe that the state is omnipotent, that the state, read: the government, can do everything best. But the commune has shown that this is unfortunately not the case, and I think it's time to come to your senses, Mr Rzońc, and think about it. I also have a specific, detailed question on this issue, because when introducing this revolutionary proposal, a new definition of the antique vehicle is introduced. So far it has been 25 years, 15 years - unproduced. There's still parts and so on. Why is it that you are now proposing that this should be 30 years, and at the same time that this time of non-production should not be introduced? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u368	Thank you. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. In what percentage of the bad technical condition of the car is the cause of accidents that occur on Polish roads, i.e. how many percent of accidents on Polish roads are caused by bad technical condition of the vehicle? Is there really something here to correct, fix, or is this situation not so bad at all? Additional question. Do you also have the data - if so, please submit them, if not, please reply in writing - how do the percentage of accidents that have occurred precisely because of the poor technical state of the vehicle in European countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u370	Thank you. The question is asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u371	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the cover of creating a coherent system for the supervision of technical testing of vehicles and the operation of vehicle control stations to ensure a high level of technical testing and improving road safety, you are implementing a revolutionary idea of transferring the existing competences for the supervision of vehicle control stations. You take these rights away from the elders and hand them over to the Director of Transport Technical Control. I would like to ask what environments these changes have been consulted with, because we are getting very disturbing signals, also from the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that the comments that have been reported have not been heard or unfortunately taken into account in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u372	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Puda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u373	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the transfer of supervisory powers to another entity, I wanted to ask how this authority will be able to control all those entities that are subject to it by means of which tools. [[That's a very good question.]] At the moment, there are more than 300 old cities with a lot of potential. I would like to ask how this office will be able to accomplish this. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u374	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u375	Minister! I wanted to ask you about the preparation of Transport Technical Supervision for the tasks that you impose on this law, the technical preparation, the tools. Within the framework of these tasks, Transport Technical Supervision will be e.g. Renewed the rating plates. I would like to ask if the owner, the owner of the vehicle, will have to come to Warsaw from Przemyśl or Szczecin to perform this operation, because there are no units in the field. I also wanted to ask you about the quality of these studies, because please note that the requirements for education are lower than for those performing these tests in stations. Those are the questions that really [[♪ The bell ♪]] They must be worried. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u376	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Bogdan the question of Rzeńca, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u377	Thank you very much, Marshal. I wanted to ask the Minister about the consultative procedure for this bill, because everyone, most of them, says that just now... I wanted to ask you what's written in the explanatory memorandum. Among other things, they spoke on this subject.: Auto Transport Institute - anything to say is a professional institution - the National Association of Car Diagnostics, the Polish Chamber of Vehicle Control Stations, the Association of Automotive Technology and the Association of Polish Districts. Therefore, these 22 thesis, which were probably useful in this consultation procedure or after this consultation procedure, were developed. I'd like to ask you about this public consultation process so that we don't create such an image that someone somewhere in the corners, in silence, just took a project because he had nothing to do. It's not like that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a good point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u378	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u379	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! These are important questions, because here I read the opinion of one of the associations. If we're talking about positive issues, I don't see one here, but I see the accusation that after three years, the law will disable the powers of diagnostics. How can you be sure to apply the law... [[Yeah, right acquired.]] ...which comes from the Constitution? How does that apply to justice? I don't know. It seems to me, I'm sure it violates those important values that we should be guided by in public life. Next - the bill is a denial of the rights of entrepreneurs contained in the business constitution. You are adopting something, you are calling an ombudsman, and then you are presenting to the High House projects that violate your previous declarations and arrangements. What does that have to do with what the Member and the Minister said just now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, is the truth... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Deputy Marshal Beata Mazurek: Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure... ...has been adversely assessed by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u380	...Mr. Mark Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps I, answering the questions to give at the beginning a few numbers that we are dealing with, and which, I see, were not exactly studied when it comes to assessing the impact of regulation. The cost of operating the system is projected to be 54 million a year. Yes, sir, 54 million a year, which closes with 146,000. For old age. Now, with regard to the cost that is possibly defined as the maximum in the law, we do not know what it will be, because we will be monitoring the operating costs of the system for 2019 and we will set this rate by the end of 2019. According to my data, which I also obtained from specialist institutions, today on average the owner of a passenger car spends on repair, operation and operation of his system about 2 000. per year. The amount of PLN 3.5 is 0,2%. that amount. That's the beginning. Mr Wilczyński asked how it is in Europe. We were based on the Dutch system, adjusting it to this, taking into account our circumstances. Mr Lassot asked about antique vehicles. The age of cars is strictly taken from the directive and the directive determines this for 30 years. So here we have a simple really... Here's the directive plus zero. Mr Grabowski spoke about the poor condition of vehicles. I would therefore like to state that in the Federal Republic of Germany 7% accidents are due to a poor technical condition of the vehicle. In Poland this indicator is officially 0.12%. Let me repeat: 0.12%. According to a survey of police officers, when it comes to accidents due to bad technical condition of vehicles, this is about 10% vehicles. With regard to the percentage of diagnostic tests where deficiencies relevant to road safety have been detected, this is 2% in Poland, in the Federal Republic of Germany it is around 25%. So that these are the reasons why a country that has to take care of road safety had to deal with this issue. I would also like to talk about these two NIK checks, in 2009 and in 2017. The 2017 audit confirmed that the oldities did nothing after the 2009 audit. [[They need help.]] Half of the stations checked carried out those tests superficially, to a partial extent or devices which did not meet the requirements. We have 4700 vehicle control stations and diagnostic authorizations have about 10,000. people, so that also speaks of the scale of the project. In 2015, police officers stopped more than 425 thousand vehicles every day as a result of road inspections carried out, covering only a small percentage of vehicles involved in traffic. evidence of registration of vehicles that threatened road safety, road and environmental clean-up and almost 152 000. of these vehicles did not have valid technical tests. These are the data at the Ministry of Infrastructure's disposal. Almost all old-timers did not carry out or carry out the mandatory annual checks on vehicle inspection stations. No re-checking of the vehicle control stations which allowed vehicles to move, the technical condition of which was immediately challenged by the police, was carried out. The Starosts were not interested in the reasons for the retention of vehicle registration evidence and the analysis of these reasons for the vehicle control stations and diagnostics which carried out these tests. These vehicles have undergone extensive technical tests. They were also not interested in a significant number of registrations retained due to the technical condition and not received by vehicle owners. Many diagnostic stations functioned without the certification of transport technical supervision. About 10,000 were detected in the stations. technical tests of vehicles. Despite the existence of such an obligation, the Starosts did not in any of these cases issue a decision to ban the operation, nor did they direct the diagnostics or the owners of these stations to training to improve this operation. The emissions of harmful exhaust constituents have been inadequately controlled. Diagnosis despite the discovery in the course of diagnostic tests of serious deficiencies concerning, inter alia, the braking, steering, suspension of the vehicle and lighting system did not stop the registration evidence, which is their duty. In turn, the elders in these situations do not withdraw the privileges of diagnostics, which is their duty. More than half of the old records have not revoked the privileges of diagnostics or directed them to training. Old-age workers who were to supervise and inspect the vehicle control stations here, most of them did not have adequate technical training or professional practice to ensure a sound assessment of the correctness of the tests carried out by the test examiners. Inspections at vehicle control stations have been carried out by people with education, among others. philosophical, agricultural and gardening, political, economic or IT. So it is difficult to say, please, High House, that this problem could not be addressed. As far as public consultation is concerned, we consulted 46 institutions, many have also agreed with us in correspondence. But as far as the ombudsman is concerned... [[Small and medium.]] ...small and medium-sized enterprises and his opinion, it is he who after correspondence with us as if he had withdrawn his earlier bunschustic words, speeches. He just didn't have much time in this position, and he didn't know the data. He didn't have that data. He only talked to the entrepreneurs who got to him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Buńczuchny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u382	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u383	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that representatives of the National Diagnostic Society Cars didn't take part in the work on this bill? If so, why? Is it true that this law introduces a new kind of public tribute, and the costs of the proposed amendments will be more than PLN 2.5 billion and will affect companies operating vehicle control stations and vehicle owners over 10 years? Is it true that the bill violates not only EU plus zero, but also many so-called rules. the business constitution, including Article. 66 and Article 66 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 67 Entrepreneurs' rights, the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, the principle of legal certainty, and also violates the rights of acquired diagnostics on their professional qualifications, depriving them of their powers after 3 years of operation of the Act and forcing them to re-skilled and ignoring the so-called. acquired rights? Is it true that the draft of this law was negatively assessed by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers of the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u384	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, contained in print No 2985, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 11 December 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Offences and the Law on Road Traffic (Print No. 2699). I ask Mrs Monica Rosa to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u385	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The aim of the project is to introduce stricter sanctions for drivers than is currently the case for moving cars which have either a faulty or cut-out particulate filter, and for those entities which offer such removal or modification services to the particulate filter. In Poland it is common to move cars that have either cut out or used DPF filters. This practice is very harmful to the environment, human health and life, but it is unfortunately widespread. This is mainly about cars that are imported, used. There are now huge numbers of such cars coming to Poland from countries mostly Western Europe. A very large part of these imported cars are powered by diesel engines. Only between 2016 and 2017, around 2 million cars were imported to Poland, which are largely over 10 years old. The filters we are talking about, namely particulate filters, DPF filters, are mounted in the exhaust systems of diesel engines and petrol engines. They purify the exhaust gases from the soot and ash particles. An engine that works without such a filter generates significant amounts of pollution, which contributes to reducing air quality, especially in cities where car traffic is very intense. Certainly not only did I feel it, but you also had the opportunity to feel it, breathing into your lungs the air especially in big cities, in the streets, how much such cars pollute this air. Filters in such cars should be treated with maintenance procedures, they must be replaced to ensure proper operation and that pollutants in the air are as low as possible. But that's not what's happening. The presence of the filter reduces the performance of the car, and the installation of the new one is of course a high cost, reaching 7 zł. Due to these high costs, these filters are very often removed, they are replaced by fakes and installations to fool the software of imported cars. Although removing the filter leads to the fact that the vehicle becomes legally unfit for use, this practice is not sufficiently prosecuted or punished. Let us give an example of the amount of the mandate that is in force for moving a vehicle that does not comply with the emission standards. This is a maximum of about 500 PLN, so they are disproportionately small in relation to the savings that car owners generate after removing such a filter, or to the costs they are to spend when they want to change such a filter. A car like this, ladies and gentlemen, shouldn't be on the road. However, removing it from the road after removing such a filter is not mandatory. The police are obliged to keep the registration card and issue a ticket after the inspection. For example, in Austria, the penalty for removing such a filter and moving disabled under the law is a mandate of up to 3.5 thousand. Euros and car tow at the owner's expense. In the Czech Republic, the mandate is about 50,000. crowns, that's about 8,000. PLN, in Germany, the fines range from 1500 to 2500 thousand. Euros. The project that we have submitted and which we are presenting today provides for much stricter sanctions for the infringement of removing the DPF filter. First, the owner, the holder, the user of the vehicle, whose technical condition violates environmental requirements, and the person driving such a vehicle will be liable to fine up to 5 000. zł. Secondly, the same fine will threaten those who ultimately remove the particulate filter and offer a removal service. The design imposes an obligation to remove the vehicle from the road at the expense of the owner if it is found that the technical condition of the vehicle is in breach of environmental requirements. What will be the positive effects of the proposed law? First of all, social and environmental. Improving air quality, on which, I understand, we care about everyone who sits here, regardless of the political option, will be the result of a more effective fight against the removal of particulate filters. This will reduce the costs that generate health problems caused by air pollution. These are things that can easily be converted into money, but health is priceless. The higher fines for those benefiting from the removal of DPF filters will constitute additional State income. The project will not be an additional burden on the state budget, severe sanctions can be imposed under the current control system. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we are talking about the health and life of citizens. We are talking about the fact that it is not possible to move disabled cars on Polish roads. You also talked about the previous draft law on the fact that the bad technical condition of cars leads very often to accidents. In the case of this draft law, it must be said that the poor technical condition of cars or the deliberate removal of DPF filters contribute to an increased health risk. There can be no consent for Polish law to allow us to say: okay, you can import cars, okay, you can remove the DPF filter, you can move a disabled car, because only 500 PLN of fine is at risk for this, because disabled cars are to a large extent the cause of the reduction in air quality, which we all breathe. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u386	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u387	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Code of Offences and the Law on Road Traffic. The proposed act shall, as shown, increase the penalties for acts and the acts of cutting or deactivating particulate filters in vehicles, and the powers to possible towing of vehicles shall be introduced in the event of such an act of limiting the operation of such a vehicle component or cutting it out. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the diagnosis of the problem is correct, because it actually exists, and its scale, it can be said, is growing, but in particular not because more and more vehicles are being imported, because, as you yourself have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum, vehicles that are more than 10 years old, and these are imported from abroad, have not yet had this element. This is an element that came up seven, eight years ago and it's in new vehicles. Of course, these situations happen, but not in connection with the import of old cars that are over 10 years old. But the question is: What way should we go if we want to solve this problem? The roads are basically two: one is an increase in penalties for drivers, as proposed in this project, i.e. increasing liability in the rules of the Code of Offences, as in this case from a maximum of 500 to 5 000. zł and the second, which is already designed and presented in the project that we discussed earlier, is to bring about a situation in which this component of vehicle performance will be tested in the framework of technical tests. In our assessment, inclusion of the exhaust quality test element also within the scope, you can say, the ecology of the vehicle, can be analysed at the stage of the periodic technical examination. Therefore, in our view, it is important to go in the direction proposed by the Ministry: the examination of this element by the diagnostics. Why? Because today we know that even an increase in penalties for such incidents is problematic because such offences are not detectable, i.e. The police are not prepared to analyze this situation on the road. It is difficult to imagine that any officer controlling vehicles on the road would have quite complicated apparatus, because it would generate incredible costs from the point of view of the police, while all diagnostic stations can be and often are already equipped with equipment that allows to test exhaust gases and their quality. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will oppose this bill and ask for its rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u388	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law contained in Seym Printing 2699, which aims to identify two new offences. Firstly, the proposal provides for stricter sanctions, i.e. Fines up to 5,000. zł for drivers for moving cars with a defective or cut-out particulate filter and for operators who offer services for cutting or modification of a particulate filter. In addition, as the designers themselves stress, this is an attempt to meet the demands made by the Institute of Automotive Transport in an expert opinion of the "Procedure" to detect the removal of a particulate filter from the vehicle. This parliamentary initiative, of course, must, in principle, be regarded as very positive not only in the context of the fight for a healthy environment, which, of course, is becoming increasingly important year by year, but above all, to combat the practice which aims to intentionally remove these filters from cars, from motor vehicles. Therefore, here I will allow myself to disagree with my previous speaker representing the Law and Justice Club, who said that this control should be limited only to the technical examination of the car, which takes place once a year. This is not sufficient. It is necessary to detect this at every stage, and it is our duty as parliamentarians to prepare not only legal bases, but also other standards that would enable officers or other relevant services to implement such rules. Therefore, in addition to the introduction of the tightening of the criminal penalty, the proposal also requires that the fine threatens also those offering and performing services to cut out a particulate filter or to make any other modification thereof which would result in a breach of environmental protection. This complements what I just said so as not to restrict this type of control only to technical tests, because it would actually be limited to liability by the owner or owner of a vehicle who would report this vehicle to the technical condition test. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club assesses this project in a positive way, including a proposal which imposes an obligation to remove the vehicle from the road at the expense of the owner if it is found that its technical condition is in breach of environmental protection requirements. Legal observations were submitted to the bill by the President of the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland and by the Supreme Court. However, in the assessment of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, these suggestions should be analysed. Therefore, when assessing, in principle, the intentions of the designers and the design of the project itself, we ask that it be directed to further work in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u390	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Kukiz, 15, I present my position on print no. 2699 - Code of Offences and the Law on Road Traffic. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't I start by saying that yesterday the Supreme Court Act was being processed. We all said, except for PiS, that this bill is unnecessary, that we are creating law for the law. Not further than the next day, you're doing exactly the same thing, but in the opposite direction. Well, that bill is unnecessary. I understand the intentions in terms of environmental protection, but let us be clear, let us prevent the import of cars over 7 years old. And that's it. Because we're doing the exact same thing. And if such a particle filter costs 7 and 10,000, and the ticket for not having it is 5,000, then it exceeds the value of the car. So let us not be enchanted - on the one hand, we do the same by introducing the exchange of furnaces under the protection of ecology at the moment. Except this isn't about the problem of changing ovens. The problem is, people don't have money to burn gas in these furnaces. Then we must adopt a strategy. As if you'd submitted a project, for example. Cut the gas excise, I'd be in favor because there's a policy to be followed. If we want ecology, we have to lower prices when it comes to green sources, not pull what we can. I believe that recently this House has adopted under the mantle of the Living+, that developers will be able to build virtually every building in the multi-storey building, up to 15 floors. And the truth is, in a minute, the city won't be ventilated, because the developers will be building with permission outside the plans. And for a good cause, we're gonna keep ruining this environment. I really wouldn't want us to make laws for the law itself, I object to that. Madame, it is that in a moment someone will come out with the project and say that women will sleep in their nightgown and men will sleep in their pajamas. Literally. Let's stop this abstraction. I understand everything, I understand the purpose, but let's not do anything for the audience, for the young. If we're gonna do something, let's do it honestly. If we want ecology, let's try it on the way we should try it on. Because the fact that she's needed, that the state of health is the way it is, that you have to fight for it, is complete agreement. In addition, you write in the justification of the project, you write that it meets social requirements. I'm having second thoughts about the social requirements. So, in a moment, in all the villages, all the cars are gonna be pulled out of traffic and people are gonna pay $5,000 each. Evil? You know, and they're gonna say, "We're gonna find this Mrs. Rosa somewhere." I'm also looking out for your safety right now. So that under no circumstances will we support it because of the lack of seriousness of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u392	Thank you. Complementary vote - Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and the Law on Road Traffic in print No. 2699. High Izbo! Every year in Poland 40 and 50 000 die of diseases related to air pollution. persons. It's as if a medium-sized town disappeared from the map of Poland. Is that enough reason for the High House to take the problem of clean air seriously? I think so. Is that enough reason for Law and Justice to take this project seriously? No, I'm afraid not. I am sorry to welcome this motion to reject the bill at first reading. I must say that Law and Justice today in the High House is taking on more cases of Poles and Poles who will lose their health, because here in the High House, you have not been able to rise above political divisions, but as usual with stubbornness you have directed the project of opposition to the Seym Destroyer. This is reprehensible, this is derogatory of the High House. I must say, Mr Buda, that DPF filters have forced Euro 4 standards which have been in force since 2006. If I count correctly, it's not eight years, it's 12 years. It is about these vehicles that are being imported to Poland today, and I must say that if you intend to talk substantively, please reach for the sources, reach for the literature, support this literature, not come here and tell the High House nonsense. I do not know why you are talking about the fact that this project, as well as the project on the indication of the meter, should only be carried out where technical tests are carried out. After all, this is the problem that vehicles that go on the road that have removed the DPF filter cause a significant increase in the concentration of substances that are responsible for the formation of cancer tissue. Let me put it straight: people who go on the road by vehicles that have removed the DPF filter contribute to the fact that their friends, neighbors, children of their friends have lung disease, cancer. And these are contemporary problems, very serious problems related, among others. with the fact that a very large group of old vehicles that have these filters removed actually enter Poland. This is also discussed by specialists, on the one hand health professionals, doctors, and, on the other hand, automotive specialists. Every day in the press, on television, in various kinds of professional literature we deal with such an alarming tone: politicians, do something about this air, politicians, ensure the cleanliness of our air, take care of the health of Poles, take care of the health of our children. So? And Law and Justice today comes here and says: we reject this project because it is a modern project. This is a reprehensible act, really. I can't understand why you treat the health of Poles in this way. This is unacceptable, this is not good, and you should never come to the High House with such a thing. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, this project contains provisions that introduce, I would say, stricter sanctions, but today, when the health of Poles is at risk of air quality, we need decisive steps. A few minutes ago, we were investigating a project on the penalization of changes in road signs. Then you could come here and say, "Yes, this is a good project." And Modern's talked about it, too. We've been peddling something that's wrong. Today, when Modern comes with a project to save the lives and health of Poles, Law and Justice says: no, this is a bad project, we reject this project. No consequences. I absolutely call on you to change your approach, and I urge you to support our request to refer this project to further reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the committees... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...because it's a good project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u394	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u395	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are proceeding with the draft law amending the Road Traffic Law Act, print no. 2699. When we read the project and the justification, we come to the conclusion that this is another project, which is practically the third one today talking about the technical state of the vehicles, about the environmental protection that closes or complements this area. In our opinion, as a club, we should be working on this project. It is true that we may have doubts that we can point out that the issues of this particular issue or these issues concerning the component of the exhaust system or exhaust system, as we say, in cars or in other exhaust vehicles... This is very important, but we can ask, as my previous speakers have said, how much of the previous legislative proposals, and especially the previous ones we discussed, about changing the functioning of diagnostic stations, will fulfil this task and cause the issue raised in this bill to disappear that we will not have such a negative impact on our environment? There are aspects raised by my previous speakers that, since one project is good, the other must be bad. How many times have we heard from this speaker in this House: let us try, let us work beyond divisions. That, in my opinion, is a good example. Let's work over division. Perhaps at the next stage we will come to an agreement or wording that will fill the thought of this project and help to accomplish these tasks that concern the state of our air, which not only the government is facing, but we are all, the whole society, everyone who lives and breathes here on this earth. That's why I'm asking you to. Our club is in favour of handing over the project for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u396	Thank you. Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is going in the wrong direction because it penalizes, and very strongly, situations that citizens often fail to meet due to financial shortcomings. I think we should consider the problem. The assumptions are correct, clean air, etc., but I suggest we consider another solution. The government has so high a tax on fuel, so high an excise duty, it would be important to consider that the government will fund each particulate filter under the filter+ program. I propose such a solution or a reduction in fuel tax by at least half. Then citizens will have money to finance such expenditure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u398	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 19. [[Voice from the room: What about the questions?]] They'll be after the votes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 44 hours 19 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: on public documents, and on the amendment of the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws. The reports shall be in prints 2961 and 3035 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the case of the committee's report in print No 3035, the Sejm agreed to the application of Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for a change in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the State Treasury's income in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015, print No 3033. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Copyright Law and Related Rights Act and the Database Protection Act. Extra... [[Game in the O.R.]] I will ask the High House to turn down the votes during the discussion. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2967-A. Third reading. I ask Elizabeth Raven to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading, three amendments were tabled to the Government's draft law amending the Copyright and Related Rights Act and the Database Protection Act. The Committee on Culture and Media recommends that the High House adopt these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u400	Thank you. Let me remind you that this is about the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2967. We will vote on the amendments in the first place and they are presented in an additional report from the committee. All these amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. In the first amendment to Article. 35a applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 389 Members voted. The vote was 387 against - 1 and abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 35b applicants propose a new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The vote was 378, nobody voted against, 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 35c paragraph. 1 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. The vote was 401, no one voted, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print 2967, along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. The vote was 401, no one voted against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on tax on goods and services. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. And there's a question. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about this law because Law and Justice have requested that its proposal be rejected in its entirety. This law can significantly improve our balance sheet in terms of renewable energy sources and energy production. In 2020 we are expected to reach 15% energy from renewable sources. If we don't, we're gonna pay huge penalties. I have a question for the applicant: To what extent can this law improve this balance and bring us closer to the 15% share of renewable energy in Poland's energy balance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u402	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak is a representative of the applicants. He wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u403	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This is a very important act because it meets the expectations of small investors who want to invest in renewable energy. Well, today we have the situation that VAT, that is, the tax on goods and services, on the installation of roof equipment or on the facade that is an integral part of the building is 8%. and if anyone wants to install these devices next door on the farm building or next to the building, they have to pay 15%. more VAT. VAT is a burden on the investor, which means we have a more expensive installation of 15%. The question is why. Why don't you come out and meet me? It's clear, clear and understandable and yesterday I tried to explain it. And thank you for admitting that you're right. If someone wants to invest cheaper, simpler and faster, we should support them - after all, the European Union is supporting investment in renewable energy - because today we have in Poland, I am not hiding, an amazing problem in terms of renewable energy, because by 2020 we will not reach the target of 15% . Today we have about 12%. and there is no increase for the last year - there is no increase. We'd support investors. Of course, we need to change the provisions of the Goods and Services Tax Act and we propose that we standardise this. Just like on the building... To assume that, too, if it serves the citizens, the citizen... We talk all the time about energy up to 50kW, i.e. if someone has installed these dozen panels. Not of a large generation, but of a micro-installation, that's important. Thus we would liberate more energy, this citizen's energy, towards investment, because we would pay 15% less for an investment, which costs several thousand or even 20 thousand, 30 thousand, that is important. The municipalities also have a problem with this, because they cannot balance it with the aid measures, because it occurs especially in the villages, but also in the city - many residents later withdraw from the investment. This applies to all renewable energy production equipment, both electricity and heat. We know perfectly well these appliances for the production of hot water. Today we see how - summer or winter - it burns from the chimneys, because this is usually the case, and in a simple way we can provide support. I think it's important. That's why I'm surprised this motion came out. I propose to withdraw this proposal, and if not, it is a vote in favour of this project, because that is the expectation. This is not a political project. This is a project for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u404	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2587, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 223 against - 188, with two abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on security of mass events. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 2933. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 2933, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 406, against four, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law on security of mass events. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on a governmental draft law on a European political party and a European political foundation. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law, print No 2928. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2928 as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 388, against - 21, with one abstention. The Sejm passed a law on European political parties and European political foundations. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. Third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3014. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 3014, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The vote was 405, against four, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3005-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u405	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights discussed at today's meeting the amendments tabled during the second reading to the government draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. The Commission recommends that the five amendments tabled be rejected, which are the opinion of the members of the committee, inter alia. they were outside the scope of the submission and therefore cannot be accepted at this stage. In addition, they were taken from another draft law, so from a legal point of view there was no possibility of their direct incorporation into this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u406	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 3005 print. In an additional report, the committee presented amendments. We will vote on them in the first place. In the first amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 2. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at this hour, there were two vice presidents of the Warsaw Insurgents' Union sitting in the gallery - Colonel Zbigniew Galperyn Both came to the Sejm to ask the High Sejm to accept their project, which was prepared by the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and which was sent to the Committee on Petitions. Every November 1st, when the Warsaw insurgents go to the graves, they go to the old Powązki, very often they meet tombstones with postcards attached to them: a grave to be destroyed. This project, which was prepared by them, was intended to protect the graves of national heroes. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u408	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 168 voted against - 219, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 applicants propose that registration of the grave be made by decision at the request of the persons mentioned in that provision. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u409	The project of the Warsaw Insurgent Union was submitted to the Sejm first. Then a government project was submitted, in the opinion of Warsaw insurgents insufficient, because it does not provide protection for graves after 20 years if no cemetery fee has been paid. The government has prepared its project. The aim of this project is to prepare by the president of the IPN records of veterans graves and allocate funds for the renovation of selected tombstones. This government project did not ensure the implementation of the main postulate, which was a postulate of Warsaw insurgents: giving power to the President of the IPN so that he could issue an administrative decision to ban the destruction of the grave. We wanted a very direct reference to the Veterans Act. This bill tells us who's the veteran, who's the veteran. In the government proposal, the president of the IPN will decide this subjectively. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u410	Thank you. But that wasn't a question. Was there a question: who...? Well, in that case, as I see it... Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are important amendments, too bad they're not accepted. The decision of the president of the IPN, who can enter a grave that is forgotten because the closest of our heroes are dead, and after 20 years can be eliminated... The record of placing this grave in the list of those who are protected will not only ensure that it can be renewed, but also that it will not disappear, also from our memory. It is about the memory of those who really gave their lives for our freedom. I think we should lean on this amendment and vote for it, because that was the call of the combatants. Please accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u412	The Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Paweł Szrot, is authorised to appear on behalf of the Government on the bill. Can you address these amendments?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can repeat what I said on the committee. What is included in these amendments, all these objectives are consumed in a government submission, both as regards the provision of funds for the cemetery fee and the protection of graves - by reference to the Law on cemeteries. I would also like to remind you that both in the opinion of the Legislative Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, these amendments are incorrect from a legislative point of view. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept my explanations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We accept.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u414	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 172 voted against - 219, with 21. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 17a-17c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 5 aims to correct the errors that are in this government law, and they snuck in because of some extreme arrogance and boots of officials who, at the same time and even before, prepared an identical law. Therefore, we are trying to correct at least some of these errors resulting from the arrogance of the Prime Minister's officials. In this amendment, we propose to ensure clearly that public funds can cover the cost of living graves, because the government law speaks about construction, renovation, transfer costs, but does not talk about maintenance costs. In this amendment, too, we ask that the decision of the President of the IPN may be appealed to the administrative court. The point is whether the registration or not was based on statutory reasons or any other reasons that Mr. President had invented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This judicial review is not provided by the government law. This is simply the result of the arrogance of officials not consulting such an important bill with veterans, with insurgents...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u417	...though they were ready for it, they had their project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u418	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u419	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important amendment. In this amendment, it's about adding an article. 17c, applicants shall propose to add a penalizing point for the following behaviours: insulting the corpses, ashes or resting places of the persons referred to in Article. 2 (2) 1 act, i.e. in short, heroes fighting for independence of the Polish state. I wanted to address to the rapporteur, who is a representative of the parliamentary majority, the question of why Law and Justice does not want to penalize such cruel acts, insulting the resting places of the heroes of the Polish state. I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u420	Mr Daniel Milewski is the rapporteur of the committee. There you go. Except this is a question, Mr President, to the rapporteur of the committee, so please do not answer why the Law and Justice... but rather what the committee has determined in this regard. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u421	Ladies and gentlemen! During the committee meeting for this amendment, the legislators pointed out that it was outside the scope of the proposal. It is difficult to refer to these, perhaps valid, arguments, but from a legal point of view, it is simply impossible to accept them. Let's respect the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u422	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 189 voted against - 219, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Voting on the whole draft law. There are questions. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like the High House to understand what's going on here. Always the cases that concerned national heroes - this was the case in September 2015 when the High Chamber established the Day of Remembrance for the Civil Uprising People of Warsaw - were above any divisions. At the moment we have a very curiosity situation: the insurgents report their project and the government report theirs. The government project does not correspond to this variant which was presented by the insurgents. They want first of all to protect these graves, i.e. administrative decisions that in a situation where there is no family or family cannot afford to pay a cemetery fee, this obligation takes over the state budget. We have a clear record of national heroes created on the basis of the law on combatants. The government proposes its own register, created on the basis of an arbitrary decision of the President of the IPN, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he doesn't offer protection. We support and support this bill, but we think it has become a criminal thing: the voice of the Warsaw insurgents has not been heard, this voice has been ignored. This is a really big burden for this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u424	I ask Mr Milewski, the rapporteur of the committee, for additional explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u425	Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, the contested bill from the petition committee proposal is a direct response to the petition of the veteran communities. We agree that both this government law and the law of combatants are very much needed initiatives. Those who participated in the fights for our freedom, those who kept their lives in these fights, but who were their participants, were prisoners, were often tortured, were participants in our national raids, are our national heroes. Although then, fortunately, they kept their lives, today, after their death, we owe them the same respect, the same memory as those who died in battle. That's why the government bill we're adopting goes against this historic obligation. Ladies and gentlemen! As proposed by the Sejm Bureau, these two projects were to be considered together. Why weren't they? Because there wasn't a Member from the Platform who was supposed to present them. That's the whole story. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u426	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print 3005, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 412, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one The Sejm passed a law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on disclosure of documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3012-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Seven amendments were tabled during the second reading. All seven committees, the Legislative Commissions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have accepted by an excellent majority, both the votes of the opposition and the coalition, as well as the ruling Law and Justice. This is, of course, a parliamentary bill amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990. This project causes that the co-workers of the communist repression apparatus will not be able to be in Polish diplomacy, in the diplomacy of a sovereign, independent country. On behalf of both committees, I ask the High House to support the entire bill with amendments. Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u428	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 3012. As we have heard, the committees are asking for this bill to be passed. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The amending act containing amendments to the Foreign Service Act of the applicant proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 1 in the following Article: 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 393, no one voted against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 3rd Amending Act. Amendments 3, 4 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting Amendments 2 to 4 and Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 391, nobody voted against, 21. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 5 The amending act shall propose a new wording to the applicant. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The vote was 393, no one voted against, 18 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 5 The amending act shall propose a new wording to the applicant. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. The vote was 389, no one voted against, 15 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is, of course, a much better law than your previous law on foreign service, which in fact abolished foreign service, and we are also in favour of all those who have cooperated with those who have surveillanced the opposition, throwing them out of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This law concerns about 100 people, as is the case in the explanatory memorandum, and there is no reason for these people not to be expelled by the Director-General of the Ministry. It is not necessary for this to adopt a law which applies collective responsibility, which is burdened by a legal defect at all. That is why we will vote against this bill, among others. because people like General Petelicki, who served Poland well, would be expelled under the law, which is unfair. There's one more thing I want to draw attention to. The Sejm Analysis Office is in order to prepare substantive opinions for projects, impartial, and absolutely outrageous thing in this committee was that Mrs Lichocka wanted to bet under the hierarchy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] She did not like the opinion written by the Sejm Analysis Bureau before the commission of the Sejm Analysis Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u430	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u431	It's just a scandal. We're against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u432	Mr Robert Majka, not associated Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u433	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since 1988, I have been demanding the disclosure of the military agent and the civilian security apparatus of the Polish People's Republic. This is the Polish state right. I therefore fully support this law and congratulate the Law and Justice of this decision. Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u434	Thank you. Well, that was clear, ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3012, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. [[Applause]] The vote was 375, against - 28, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the R &amp; D report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and the Law on Forests. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3003-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Mieczysław Miazga to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the first reading took place and after a substantive discussion of this project, the committee gave a positive opinion on the draft law. During the second reading, a single amendment was tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club and the Sejm sent the draft amendment to the committee. The Commission has given a negative opinion on the content of the amendment and recommends that the High House adopt the whole law without amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u436	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 3003 print. On the amendment presented by the committee, We vote on it first. This is an amendment to the Article. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (8). In this amendment, applicants propose to add lithium. c. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The amendment concerns the inclusion of financial assistance for forest areas affected by the storm disaster in August 2017. This applies to several regions in Poland. The area of destroyed forests is over 30,000. ha, and the losses are over PLN 2 billion. We believe that the amendment is justified, although in a moment the Minister of Agriculture will say that it is not justified, that procedures, etc. I ask the Minister of Agriculture to lean on this amendment because there is a need for empathy and will. These people are expecting help. It has been several months since this fatal, tragic event, and we, of course, believe that this amendment deserves full support. Minister! Courage! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u438	Thank you. I don't call the Minister. I'm just looking at how you respond to this appeal. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 190, against - 219, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law deals with support for rural development and at this point we have to ask the question: How Polish farmers are worse than farmers, for example. Germany, France or Holland? If we listen in Parliament and in the election campaign for 3 years - President Andrzej Duda also mentions this in the Tarnów district - that Polish farmers will have the same subsidies as German, French or Dutch farmers, why is nothing done in this regard? Why isn't there a level playing field? Please, Minister, answer this question: When will Polish farmers have the same conditions as farmers from the countries of the old Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u440	Thank you. Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of equalising the development opportunities of Polish agriculture is a goal which I think everyone in Poland has set themselves. It would be good for those who have not done so in the past not to be properly concerned, too, to have some reflection here. The Member asks a question which he probably knows the answer to. This is because in the European Union financial rules are adopted for 7 years. The European Union's budget operates in seven-year-olds and is implemented in seven-year periods. I would like to assure you absolutely that all the efforts that are being made at the moment, whether at the meetings of the Council of Agriculture and Fisheries Ministers, or by the Prime Minister or by other government ministers, are moving towards equalising development opportunities. This concerns both the volume of direct payments and the size of the budget of the European Union. The European Commission's proposal in this area is no longer in line with Poland, but with the majority of European countries, because it does not allow a number of ambitious actions to be implemented by the common agricultural policy. So, thank you very much for, as I understand it, the support given by the Member so that together, together, we are able to effectively fight the right conditions for Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] [[And what are the effects?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u442	Good. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print 3003, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 411 voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Law on forests. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Feed. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3004-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Polak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading here, one amendment was tabled by the Civic Platform Club in the plenary room to this bill. The committee at its meeting this morning considered this amendment in detail. The discussion was long. Nevertheless, the committee recommends that the High House reject this amendment and adopt the whole of the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u444	Thank you. We are voting first on the amendment tabled in the additional report. In this amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 15a to the feed law. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting that it be rejected. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Scientific data, social opinion, the principle of foresight, which should apply to all of us, make it clear that it is against GMO cultivation, as well as flooding the Polish market with GMO-containing products. Minister Ardanowski! That's a quote. from your website. Please refer to what has changed in recent years, what has changed since you took over the Minister's briefcase and embraced the rule of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u446	Does this concern this amendment? We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 172 voted against - 220, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, there are questions. Member Norbert Kaczmarczyk, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, farmers need GMO feed, and we know that very well. Of course, Polish People's Party, Civic Platform and Law and Justice know this. On the other hand, unfortunately, the fact that genetically modified soybeans are imported from abroad has become part of a political struggle. It has come to the conclusion that there is a pursuit of two large party camps in terms of genetically modified organisms. On the one hand, when voting against, Polish agriculture is destroyed, because there will be no feed, and on the other hand, in recent years little has happened in the context of securing Poland in protein. We gave time, we gave these 2 years on the way to the moratorium, but, unfortunately, we did not secure Poland with protein. So, as a Kukiz club15, without wanting to harm farmers, we will abstain because this is the only solution at this point to express our opinion in some way, because you've really led us to another pat and we're not really [[♪ The bell ♪]] ct help Polish farmers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u448	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a project by Minister Ardanowski. Mr Ardanowski is in the courtroom, so maybe he can tell us why he overturned Minister Jurgiel's bill two years ago, which extended that time until 2021. The fight between the gentlemen makes this House have to deal with the same project twice. Moreover, Mr. Ardanowski made one big sham because in this bill he wrote that he would create a program that he committed himself to creating it. And, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010, the government of the Civic Platform and PSL has run such a programme, financed it, gave 35 million PLN for work aimed at becoming independent of genetically modified feed protein. Minister Jurgiel extended this programme, created a new group of experts. And in 2018, Minister Ardanowski woke up and recorded in the Act that the Minister of Agriculture is obliged to create a programme. I said, what is this bullshit? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u450	Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard many times from this speaker, also at the meetings of the agricultural committee, that GMOs are all evil. PiS led a populist policy and disinformed the public that food without GMOs could be produced in Poland. When Minister Jurgiel submitted a proposal to extend the use of genetically modified feedingstuffs in food production by 4 years, indeed Minister Ardanowski, then the Member reduced this period by 2 years, claiming that 2 years is enough to produce a protein in Poland that will fully protect the needs of animal producers. Today it is clear that neither Minister Jurgel, nor even Minister Ardanowski, a hot opponent of GMOs in Poland, dealt with this problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm asking you why you're lying to us at the agriculture committee today that you just need...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u452	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u453	... 2 years and GMOs will not be in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u454	Thank you, sir. The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Jurgel, asks for the floor... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Krzysztof Ardanowski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that this case needs a little more clarification. I won't use 15 minutes, but a few words are needed. For the food sovereignty of each country, too, it is very important that we produce feed from which animals are fed. Poland, like a large part of Western European countries, has become dependent on imports of protein from outside and from other continents. This is 90 percent genetically modified soybean. This problem has also arisen in many other countries, as I mentioned, because countries that for decades have produced their plant protein used in feedingstuffs, because of some ease of obtaining soybeans have stopped growing protein crops, have stopped producing protein in their areas, depending on the soy lobby that this soybean provided. Indeed, I am in favour of food sovereignty of Poland and that we should try to produce what is possible in Poland. Let me remind you that we import about 2,300 thousand. t genetically modified soybean, for which we pay more than PLN 4 billion depending on the price, and a significant part of this money could remain with Polish farmers on Polish farms. In 2006, Law and Justice banned the importation of genetically modified soybeans in the Act, and the entry into force of that ban for the following years was postponed by further moratoriums. I must say that we have not shown ourselves as a Polish country, as a Polish agriculture with caution, because we have made our food sovereignty dependent on imports. It's time to stop. Besides, this is not just a Polish position. I am very happy because today, in Vienna, Commissioner Hogan announced a European protein plan which assumes exactly what I have been saying for several years that Europe should try to produce enough protein, but at most some necessary protein... [[Since 2008]] ...additional quantities imported from outside Europe, but above all based on your own protein. And we want to do it in Poland. Taking into account the degree of reproduction of protein crops, so-called. Bobidae - at the moment it is the name in force in botanical systematics - or other sources of protein, I would like to say that of course this is not possible to introduce within 1 year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose - this is the part of the amendment - that we give ourselves so that Polish agriculture can afford 2 years to prepare the replacement of soybeans. Because zero-one choices must not be made, because it would seriously harm the production of poultry, which is strong in Poland. the animal production component and the export element, the withdrawal of genetically modified soybean pellets will take place gradually so as not to disturb the market. [[And the 2014 agricultural programme?]] And it was an absolutely curiosity proposal to throw out the article. 15a, which is precisely how we are to introduce this substitution of protein in Poland. [[It's all there and it's working.]] Because the program that was being implemented... And this is where we have to thank Minister Sawicki, because he spent the first money on this program, [[Applause]] Then Mrs. Beata Szydło's government allocated large resources to continue this program. What did the program respond to? He actually answered all the questions asked about what plants to grow, what agrotechnics to use, how to... [[Then why is it still funded?]] ...a way to construct feed doses to use this Polish protein. On the other hand, he did not answer, because he could not, to the fundamental questions, how to build the Polish protein market, how to convince feed companies to change their recipes, to use Polish protein, how to create a system of buying from Polish protein crops farmers, how to lead to the production of rape pellets, i.e. the basic source of protein, being subjected to special processing, so that they become full-value sources of protein with high dietaryity. This program didn't answer these questions because it couldn't, because it wasn't the purpose of this program that no one had. So I want not only mechanicalally to prolong the ban on modified soybean for some years, but also to introduce effective substitution through market design. And it's happening right now, ladies and gentlemen. There is a team that meets representatives of Polish producers of feed. I managed to convince all Polish feed producers to join this program. Studies have been commissioned in several scientific centres to improve the dietary and dietary suitability of rape buckwheat. We have taken actions to increase the cultivation of rape next year so as to obtain about 3 million tons, maybe 3.5 million tons of rape, to have a real base on which we will build Polish protein. These are the actions described in Article. 15a, which is in this program. This is a historical program, because it gives the opportunity to gain food sovereignty of Poland and become gradually independent from external sources of protein. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u456	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2997 in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 383, 2 against, 24 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Feed. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. I will put this proposal to the vote. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Civic Platform Club in 2016 spoke against the tax imposed on shops. There was no notification of this project. You want to transfer 2 billion zlotys to consumers. We do not agree, but this project is so designed that the rejection request would result in the introduction of this tax. We're against this tax, but we're dropping the motion for rejection. We're not for tax purposes. You want to draw PLN 2 billion out of this tax, discreetly, because you are not sure that this solution is possible yet. So you cannot introduce this tax. You're trying to play tricks. We're against it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. in favour of the withdrawal of the rejection request. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Against or Against?]] Against tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u458	I understand that the Member has formally withdrawn her motion for rejection, yes? [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much. So we do not ask questions about this proposal. I propose that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, proceed to the second reading of the draft law without referring the bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] I hear an objection. Then we must vote against it. We proceed with the vote on the motion to proceed to second reading. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Public Finance Commission. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the request for a second reading, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The vote was 241, against 166, with four abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Would any of you like to speak? [[Voice from the room: Yes, Paulina Hennig-Kloska.]] Member Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Club Modern, then Member Krystyna Skowrońska. I'm opening a discussion. When it comes to time, it's only gonna take a minute and a half, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: That's enough.]] One and a half minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This tax should never be included in Polish tax law, as should more than 30 other taxes that you have introduced over the last 3 years. In fact, the cost that Poles today are widely complaining about is precisely the merit of your government's policy. This tax, if it ever enters Polish tax law, will also cause this cost. It's not only that you don't listen to what the opposition says, you don't even learn from your mistakes yet. It would be enough to look at the bank tax, which is exactly the same sector tax, after which you can see that 100% has been transferred to taxpayers' portfolios, bank clients' portfolios. 4.5 billion was in that case, 2 billion will be in the case of retail tax. 100% will be transferred to products sold by networks. This is food, this is clothing, this is footwear. It is about the daily needs of Poles, which satisfy every day on shopping. This tax will cause inflation. Finally, understand the basic economic mechanisms, and it will be much easier for us to talk in this building. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u460	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Government introduced the so-called Government in 2016. Shop tax. He modified, tried to pull 2 billion zlotys out of our pockets. So? And the European Union has stopped it, as have many other PiS decisions. Therefore, we cannot support the introduction of another tax. If you want to introduce this tax, you do it at your own expense, pulling 2 billion PLN out of the pocket of Poles. You're not helping anyone. Each Pole, buying butter, milk, baby clothes at the store, will pay tax. Ladies and gentlemen! A debate was needed in the Committee on Public Finance to clarify the whole mechanism. The mechanism is wrong, you have a problem with it. We do not have a problem to reject this very bad project introducing tax, which each Pole will pay. This is a test. PiS wants to quietly pull 2 billion PLN out of Poles' pockets tonight. The Civic Platform doesn't agree to this. [[Applause]] [[Where's 18 billion of OFE?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u462	We all know it's about putting off implementing. [[Voice from the room: Yes, I'm sure.]] I am now declaring a three-minute break and calling the Convention in a dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 04 hours 20 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. I inform the High House that I have announced a recess and called the Convention to clarify a certain procedural problem. It turns out that at the time of the first reading of the government bill amending the Act on Retail Tax, the one we are now discussing, two proposals were made to reject the bill at first reading. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] One application was withdrawn by the Civic Platform club, but the other application was not withdrawn... [[Whose?]] ...by the club of the Polish People's Party. Therefore, we will have to repeat the procedure because at the Seniors' Convention the Polish People's Party maintained its proposal to reject this bill at first reading. Therefore, from a formal point of view, we will have to repeat the procedure, i.e. vote on this unwithdrawn second motion to reject the bill. Then we'll have to repeat the procedure. All countries who have come forward and remain willing to speak, please take the floor. We will now vote on the motion to reject the bill at first reading. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2996, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 25 voted against - 243, with 139 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I propose that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, proceed to the second reading of the draft law without referring the bill back to the committee. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] I hear opposition, so we're gonna have to vote on it. We proceed with the vote on the motion to proceed to second reading. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Public Finance Commission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request for a second reading, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 222, against - 176, with 16 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. I suggest that the Seym... Excuse me, we're starting our second reading. You have come forward - Krystyna Skowrońska and Paulina Henning-Kloska. Would Mrs Krystyna Skowronska like to speak? Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska. Thank you, too? Okay, thank you very much. The Member wishes to speak. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska. The speaking time is set for 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Taking advantage of the opportunity that so many of you are in the Chamber, I would like to approximate the statistical data on this cost that I was just talking about. I would like to introduce, especially the right side of the room, to the study of Mon. The statistical portal of the Pole, carried out by the National Debt Register, shows that in your governments basic fees and daily expenses, the cost of life of our citizens increased by more than 60%. In this study you can carefully trace which fees, when it comes to the elements of our daily lives, have increased the most. And yes: thermal energy charges - 188% , export of impurities - 93% , gas - 73% , current - 65% And it's supposed to rise even more, and water is 56%. These are, of course, not the only elements of our lives where fees have increased. Summa summarum our basic cost of living in 2015 amounted to PLN 976 and in 2018 already PLN 1572. You and your tax policy are responsible for this. The introduction of 34 taxes could not affect precisely these and other prices. The same will be true of retail tax. Get him out of the system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] tax. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u464	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. [[Proposal for a third reading.]] I would like to inform you that no amendments were tabled at second reading. We therefore proceed to the third reading. [[Objection.]] We are voting on the entire bill. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No.... [[Question.]] Excuse me, there's a question. [[Voice from the Chamber: After the vote.]] Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Club Law and... The Civic Platform. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Voices from the hall: No, we don't. We don't want to.]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] And then Paulina Hennig-Kloska, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. [[Applause]] Today you are jumping on the wallets of Poles. Today, with this vote, you will take 2 billion PLN from Poles. And I'll be talking about the next 8 billion in a minute. The House of Members representing the Law and Justice, who presented these projects, said that they had the pleasure of presenting an increase in the tax. Every Pole will pay. In this case, you impose a tax on shopkeepers where there are more turnover. You are not sure that the European Union will agree to the solution you have proposed. The Civic Platform is against the 34 taxes you've imposed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And so is this tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u466	Thank you. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, if you look at the history of the last few days, getting down on your knees and admitting your mistakes should already enter the law club and justice into the blood. You have a chance to do it again, and then you'll have some sense. After all, we know that you will lose the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Commission. It doesn't make any sense to dismiss this tax for another year, we just have to get it out of Polish tax law. Of course, we will vote in favour of this dismissal, because it would have been bad if it had entered into force since 1 January. Nevertheless, I really encourage great reflection. You're gonna lose this trial before the TSUE anyway. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u468	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2996 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 253 against - 31, with 124 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Retail Tax Act. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on the amendment of the excise tax law. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the bill. No amendments were tabled at second reading. We therefore proceed to the third reading. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a draft law, which is another testimony to admitting to wrong policy, to legislative errors by law and justice. This draft law once again extends the validity of the legislation on the introduction of excise duties on tobacco-related products, i.e. all modern electronic cigarettes. I would like to remind you that a year ago, when we were debating the draft of this law, Modern said clearly that this is a policy of crushing Polish entrepreneurs. Such a project is the implementation of such a policy. We said there wasn't enough time for entrepreneurs to adapt to carry out all the red tape that PiS is putting on them. So? And after a year, you admit that Modern was right. You should have taken it right away. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Modern arguments, and this law would not have to be re-examined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u470	Thank you. Of course, we're talking about moving it for the first time. [[A voice from the courtroom: But we talked about it a year ago, marshal.]] We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3015, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 1 with a hold of 5. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act. We are returning to the review of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on the Tax on Goods and Services. During the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to proceed to the third reading of this draft law without referring it back to the committee. I will put this proposal to the vote. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! My first question is to your marshal. Why did Mr. Marshal allow a draft law that was not consulted to take 8 billion PLN away from Poles to the Sejm? This project, which has taken 8 billion PLN from Poles since 1 January each year, has not been consulted. Question to the Minister: Is it true that 31 December 2018 the tax will be 23% and 8% And since January 1st, if there was no amendment, would it be less than 1%? The state without consultation raises, you introduce a higher tax rate - contrary to the Sejm's rules, contrary to good practice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - for clothes, for butter, for bread. In each pocket you will draw PLN 8 billion in total. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u472	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u473	Is that decent? [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] Mr. Marshal, there's a project for you. There you go. In the end, it says no consultation. And please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u474	Thank you very much. I inform you that government projects are subject to consultation under the legislative procedure of the government, and the Marshal of the Sejm usually also sends them, even though the projects are government, for consultation. We proceed to the vote on the proposal to join the third reading without referring the bill back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Public Finance Commission. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the request to join the third reading, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote - 223, against - 189, abstained - 2. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3020. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. Its adoption will render the committee's proposal unobtrusive. The questions are asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Doesn't my memory confuse me? Didn't you come to power, promising not to raise taxes? And today you raise the tax. Besides, not for the first time, the room argued that this was already the 30th tax increase in this term of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, do not be surprised that Poles do not trust politicians, Poles do not trust ministers or government, because if you go to power and say one thing, and after the election you do the other, it is what it is. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u476	With that trust It's a little different, sir, but... Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to correct Mr Grabowski's statement, because the Law and Justice in the campaign did not promise that he would not introduce taxes, but promised that he would reduce these taxes, which is a very important difference. I may be boring, but I've been asking the Prime Minister for two years and the Prime Minister still hasn't answered me when she's going to fulfill her promise. [[Paulina Hennig-Kloska plays from the phone a fragment of the speech by Prime Minister Beata Szydło: We want to introduce a new tax law based on 3P: development, transparent, simple. Reduction of VAT to 22%...]] [[Touchdown, applause]] It's just that this promise hasn't been fulfilled until today. [[One more year, one more year.]] Taxes are neither transparent, nor pro-development, nor simple, and VAT has still not returned to 22%, so I hope that the Prime Minister, caused by such a salvage, will now be able to answer the question that I have been asking for two years. [[Some Members chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u478	Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the reproduction of votes and images from the media of this type which you have presented is only allowed with the consent of the marshal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz has the floor. Thank you very much, Member. Member Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A little credibility test. Since 2011, we have heard nothing but this: we will lower VAT when we get to power. What's up? Year 2016, 2017, now 2018 and what? That's not gonna happen. Not only that you don't lower, you don't even restore the old state - 22%. Isn't this credibility the same as it is. with one of your ministers who's been looking for an imaginary Byzantium he hasn't found in the past three years, but turns out he built it himself. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Isn't it just that you're lying to Poles? And may I add, Mr. Grabowski, this is a test for you. Take out the cards with us during this vote and we will see if you are actually against robbing Poles of PLN 8 billion in time of prosperity. [[Voice from the room: Yes, bravo. Yes, sir.]] At that time there was a recession, today we have prosperity and the economy in the best condition. Vote in the right way. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u480	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the motion for rejection. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The vote - 171, against - 223, abstained - 5. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before the whole question is asked: Mr Stanisław Tyszka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to applicants is, do they realize that under the PO-PiS regime, 2,5 Millions of mostly young Poles left Poland? Do you realize that at the moment one in ten Poles active in the field are considering emigration? Why are the Poles leaving? Why do they still want to leave Poland? That's because the government's taking them 60%. seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-seventy-five-seven-seventy-five-five-seven-seven-seven-seven-five-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven.-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven.-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven.-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-sty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven.-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven.-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven what they're working out every month. Do you know how many peasants were picked up in the 16th century? 30% of what they're working on. The Poles are currently twice as taxed as the peasants of the serfs. And now, in 2011, the Civic Platform temporarily increased VAT. You four years in a row, even though you promised to cut back, you're temporarily raising these taxes. I wish that the Poles would finally stop this killing our nation's temporary rule of the PO-PiS. But we can't take the cards out... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...because we are the only ones in this Seym against the tax increases that the Civic Platform has raised and which increases the Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But Poles pay us to vote here. When the Kukiz government gets here, we're gonna lower taxes. And that's an iron guarantee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u482	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So it turns out that Kukiz15 is in favour of raising taxes because this is the only chance to block this stupid idea. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] To raise citizens' taxes by 8 billion. Is that how you want to vote? Vote. [[But don't argue with each other.]] You'll be responsible for raising the tax. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] You're pulling 8 million out of the Poles' pockets. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! I think you're gonna be responsible for all those lies and scams from the election campaign and the exposé someday. You promised to reduce the tax. You promised me a tax of 22%. And where? Prime Minister Morawiecki responded for his lies before the court. I hope that the PiS politicians will all answer for their lies in court. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u484	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I would point out that this is a round of questions, not a debate. So I'd ask you not to discuss, not to make statements, just to ask questions, for example.: Is it true? And so on. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Richard Petru has the floor, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u485	Stop yelling, and start listening, or you won't drown out by shouting. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] His electoral promises. I see you miss Mrs. Beata, and you don't like Mr. Matthew, do you? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will quote Prime Minister Beata Szydło from 2017: If everything goes according to plan, we will have good news about VAT for you in 2018. So it didn't go as planned. There's no money for 500+. There's no money for the government limousines you're crashing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's no money for Rydzyk's father. [[Voice from the room: Now!]] There's no money for Vistula Mill. There's no money to protect the president. [[And there's no Modern, check it out.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You've raised your taxes 34 times. 4 billion - bank tax. 1 billion PLN - solidarity tribute. 1 billion zloty - recyclable fee. You lied. Admit it... [[Richard, where's Modern?]] ... The platform's up to 23, and you're holding it. And here's the thing: you're moving this raise until she doesn't rule. That's what cowards do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u486	Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the questions: Is it true that this Law of the PiS raises taxes? The truth. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Is it true that 223 members of the PiS vote today? The truth. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Is it true that if you don't want to raise taxes, you won't vote with them and pass the bill? The truth. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] So don't gypsies here. Don't cheat. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Is it true that you've increased to 23%? Is that true?]] If you don't want to raise the tax, don't vote with us. Stop cheating. [[Applause]] [[Who picked it up? You and your friend.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u488	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3020 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 238 Members voted. The vote was 217, against - 20, with one abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. [[Applause]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law... [[Give it up for Kukiz!]] [[Some Members chant: Entree! It's an appetizer! It's an appetizer!]] I urge Mr Meysztowicz. Don't yell. Ladies and gentlemen, please behave. Please take care of the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Security Service in the years 2017-2020. Third reading. The Commission requests that the draft law be repealed. It's about print number 3022. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3022 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. 396 Members voted against - 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in 2017-2020. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Public Documents (Prints No. 2953 and 2961). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit of information. The Senate proposed eight amendments to the law on public documents adopted by the Sejm, mostly editorial. At the committee meeting, it recommended that all the amendments proposed by the Senate be adopted. All the more so, and I recommend to the High House that they be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u490	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Senate amendments from 1st to 3rd, from 5th to 7th and 9th are editorial. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against amendments 1 to 3, from 5 to 7 and 9 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 4, 405 - against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes that the words of false testimony be replaced by the words of false statements. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. [[Game in the O.R.]] Especially, Mr. Members, I urge you to at least keep your voice down. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 2, 405 - against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes to add an article. 61a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 8th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 399 voted against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Education Law, the Act on the system of education and certain other laws (prints No 3031 and 3035). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Education Law, the Law on the system of education and some other laws. Joined committees at their meeting on 22 November this year. consider the above resolution and ask the High Sejm to accept the amendments contained in print No. 3035. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u492	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1. The Senate proposes that in the article. 6a Act of the Teacher Charter repeal paragraph. 14.18. Amendments 4, 5 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Commissions, I remind you, they're filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 1, 4, 5 and 8, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 2 against - 410, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 41 The Senate proposes to add points 1a and 1b. Amendment 7 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 2 and 7, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 2, 403 - against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 3. The Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 42. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 405 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6. The Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. The vote was 1, 404 - against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Changes in the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the State Treasury in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 (print No 3033). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. 2 (2) 1 and Article 1 5a of the Law of 21 January 1999 on the Sejm Committee of Investigation and Article. Paragraph 136c. 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for changes in the composition of the committee of inquiry. Would any of you like to speak? No one's checking in. Let me remind you that on the basis of the article. 2 (2) 1 of the Act on the Parliament's Committee of Inquiry for Changes in the Personal Composition of the Committee of the Sejm shall be made by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 3033, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 340 votes against, 47 against, 20 abstentions. By an absolute majority, the Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the composition of the committee of inquiry. I'm calling a three-and-a-half-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 42 hours 20 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Offences and the Law on Road Traffic (Print No. 2699). Let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Question time: 1 minute. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no MP... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u493	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Have applicants made estimates, analyses of how many long-term passenger cars will be deprived of registration evidence and thus lose the right to use public roads? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u494	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice. And I would very much like to ask Mr Krzysztof Truskolas that he prepares himself to ask questions so that we can... [[I'm prepared.]] Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the draft law, the solutions proposed by you are introduced to punish all Poles who are not owners of DPF, even if this happens unconsciously. In fact, many of us, even Members, may not have this DPF, and in your solutions you want to punish us for the fact that unwittingly - I stress this because it is quite important - we drive cars that do not have these solutions. Therefore, I have this question: Why do you want to punish those Poles who unwittingly use their cars... [[It's better to use the car knowingly.]] ...instead of e.g. Use the bait here in the form of some good solutions? After all, it is possible to introduce such a solution to check the state of the exhaust gas during registration reviews, which are mandatory, I remind you, for all Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If such a car does not have a DPF - do not do this review, do not let this car ride on Polish roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u497	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The particle filter cutting procedure is outrageous and should be punctuated. I don't understand why the PiS club doesn't want to talk to us without discussion at the committee meeting - the PiS doesn't want to talk to us - wants to reject this project at first reading. If you have such ideas, sir, you should simply make appropriate amendments in committee work and then we will be able to continue talking about this project. I have a question for the applicant: Will the adoption of this law improve air quality in Poland? [[Voice from the hall: Can't you ask that in the cockroaches?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u498	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u499	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you look at the procession of this law, which was practically immediately thrown into the basket, because there is a request from the PiS to reject the project at first reading, it turns out that the whole genius of the world has been affected by Members of Law and Justice. They do not need committees, do not need consultations or opinions from the Legislative Office - the Supreme Court Act passed in 3 hours. We as Modern submit an application. Mrs Monica Rosa has prepared a draft law. We are open to discussion, we want to think about how to make the air in Poland really clean. Give the committee a chance to debate, to find the best solution, so as to introduce such solutions that will actually lead to the reduction of air pollution in Poland, which is one of the worst in the world, let alone Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u500	Thank you, sir. I very much wanted your fellow Members, especially... This is no place for a debate club here. Don't bother your colleagues. Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u501	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one of the projects that are really supposed to improve the situation with regard to the use of motor vehicles, and since today there has been a lot of talk about safety, safety and environmental protection in relation to motor traffic, I have a little bit next to this question to the minister who is not there. I've raised this case before. The point is that in the event of damage to the vehicle, when the insurer evaluates that there is total damage, this vehicle is later repaired and returns to the roads. Shouldn't we think about this, that if there is total damage, then such vehicles should be eliminated from traffic? It's never gonna be 100%, to tell you the truth. met the safety requirements. Minister, I'm asking you to reflect on this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't neglect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u502	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u503	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative. My question is about air quality. Firstly, is it true that due to very important pollution in Poland year to year, depending on the year, from 40 to up to 50,000. Poles are dying of diseases that are due to air pollution? Secondly, I wanted to ask if it is true that these harmful exhausts from engines in vehicles that are deprived of DPF due to the criminal activity of removing these filters cause cancer. Is that a serious problem, and should we fight this problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u504	Thank you very much, sir. Please, the last question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u505	Thank you, Marshal. Each action has a cause, but also consequences. The consequence of the arrival of diesel-powered cars is, among others. the problem of DPF filters discussed today. My question: Why can't it be solved through a civil contract, buying a car? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u506	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz for an answer. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't? In that case, I would like to ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u507	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Firstly, this is what Mr Buda was talking about at an earlier stage of proceding, the apparatus that is used to measure the exhausts is not a complicated apparatus. In the West, this equipment is widely available to the police, which protects road safety. This is not in any way an unsolvable problem, it is rather a matter of fitting police officers. Line two. Mr Jerzy Jachnik. That was quite a curiosity statement, Mr President. I don't think you understand much about this law. No, we will not prohibit the import of cars, but yes, we must prohibit the removal of filters that clearly harm the health and life of citizens. Another question. I'd like to, and I think everyone here in this room would like people to use their cars knowingly and knowingly drive them. If someone wants to remove the filter and remove it, they should be punished for it. There is no unconscious removal of filters. There is no unconscious removal of filters by workshops. Nobody goes to the garage and gets a car damaged without their knowledge, without their will. Therefore, it must be punished. This is a matter of our health and our lives. Yes, Mr Mirosławe Suchoń, 40 and 50 thousand. people in Poland die prematurely from air pollution. These are the issues of respiratory diseases, with the issue of filters and fumes, this is the issue of cancer. Yes, there is no price that is not worth paying for Polish citizens and citizens to be healthy, to breathe fresh, good air and not have lung disease, to not have cancer, because someone decided to cut out the DPF filter and thus contaminate the air around themselves. When we buy a car, we decide to use it, use it. We decide it's supposed to be a working car. If there isn't an element in it, it's gonna be a road threat. The fact that it lacks a filter is not a matter of direct but indirect threat to our lives and health, including our children. And we wouldn't want that. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss the amounts, we can discuss the time of the introduction of this bill, but discussing the health and life of Poles only because the project has submitted opposition is definitely inappropriate. Citizens cannot be bribed by rejecting such a bill because the consequences of such action will be long-term for all. We say not bribery. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u508	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime (Print No. 2989). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present the justification for the bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Minister Jurgiel...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u509	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure and the honour to present to you a draft law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. The provisions of the proposed law will be implemented by the Member States in Article. 63 Directive 2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of penalties, on the free movement of such data and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA, the obligation to transpose its provisions into the national legal order. Directive 2016/680, known as the Police Directive, and key to the new concept of personal data protection Regulation No 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC in a comprehensive and consistent manner for the European Union as a whole govern data protection issues. The European legislator deliberately excluded from the scope of Regulation 2016/679 the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of crime prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of penalties, including protection against and the prevention of threats to public security, by regulating these matters, because of the particular nature of such activities, in a different legal act, namely Directive 2016/680. The Directive, as a legal act requiring Member States to establish a given legal order - unlike a regulation which is directly applicable - allows for the diversity and diversity of national legislation on the prevention and fight against crime to be taken into account in its provisions. An example of this kind of difference is the distinction made by the Polish legislator between criminal offences and offences, the source of which is the assessment of the harmfulness of social acts, which consequently translates into the differentiation of severity of sanctions for crimes and offences. Such a system of criminal offences is not common in the European Union. An important reason for this was, on the one hand, the need to ensure a consistent, high level of protection of personal data of individuals, and, on the other hand, to facilitate the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the Member States so as to ensure effective cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation, and to ensure that data can be transferred to a third country, provided that the purpose of such action is to prosecute criminal offences while ensuring an adequate level of data protection by the third country. At the same time, the Directive also includes any other authority or entity to which the law of a Member State entrusts the exercise of public authority and the exercise of public powers for the purposes set out in Directive 2016/680, in addition to public authorities such as the Police or other law enforcement authorities. It also regulates the exchange of information covering personal data between law enforcement authorities of the Member States of the European Union and third countries. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Polish legal realities, personal data protection issues are regulated in the Personal Data Protection Act of 29 August 1997 and in a number of other laws governing the operation of law enforcement and justice authorities, as well as other entities operating in the area defined by the framework of the subject-matter scope of Directive 2016/680. One of the main objectives of the new regulation is to maintain a balance between the right to privacy and the need for the police to maintain a balance between the right to privacy and the need for police - and other actors in the area of preventing and combating crime, including protection against and the prevention of threats to security and public order - confidentiality in the processing of data by competent authorities in this field. Regulation allowing the processing of personal data by public authorities and restricting the individual powers of the bodies referred to in Article. 51 Constitutions should find a clear and precise basis in the Act. It is not only a formal provision that gives public authorities the power to process personal data, but also the appropriate quality of those provisions. They should not confer excessive decision-making powers on public authorities in this area - e.g. by using indiscriminate terms or general clauses - and, where such freedom is necessary, there should be an effective appeal mechanism to enable the legality of the actions undertaken to be effectively monitored by independent authorities, in particular courts. In view of the above, this draft law, which sets out the permissible purposes for the processing of personal data within the meaning of the Act, and, first, the principles and conditions for the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the purposes of the recognition, prevention, detection and control of criminal offences, including threats to security and public order, as well as for the execution of temporary arrests, penalties and criminal penalties and coercive measures resulting in deprivation of liberty; secondly, the rights of persons whose personal data are processed by the competent authorities for the purposes indicated and the legal protection of those persons; thirdly, the way in which the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the above purposes is carried out; fourthly, the tasks of the supervisory authority - the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data - and the form and manner in which they are carried out; fifthly, the duties of the controller and the processor and of the data protection officer and the procedure for their designation; sixthly, the means of safeguarding personal data; seventhly, the procedure for cooperation with the supervisory authorities of other Member States of the European Union; eighth, criminal liability for breaching the provisions of that law. High Seym! A necessary element of the proposed solutions is the precise definition of the scope of this law. Personal data within the meaning of the proposed rules may be processed for the purposes of the detection, detection and eradication of and prevention of criminal offences, including threats to security and public order, as well as the execution of provisional arrests, penalties, criminal penalties and coercive measures resulting in deprivation of liberty. The fight against criminal offences should also be understood to include prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences and the enforcement of penalties. The scope of the proposed provisions is determined by reference to separate laws under which authorised entities conduct proceedings or carry out activities in the above mentioned. range. This means that the powers of the entity as defined in the legal provisions of the law will be a factor determining the application of the provisions of the proposed law. This design of the proposed rules is primarily the result of the multiplicity of entities operating in the area of the subject-matter framework of Directive 2016/680. Such a solution is so universal that, in the event of the creation, liquidation or transformation of operators in this area, it will not be necessary to amend the proposed legislation. The draft law sets out the rights of persons whose personal data are processed by the competent authorities and the legal remedies available to them, as well as the way in which personal data are supervised. The functions of the supervisory authority under Directive 2016/680 will be exercised by the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data established under the Act of 10 May 2018 on the Protection of Personal Data. This solution is beneficial not only for economic reasons - there is no need to create a separate office, but above all it guarantees the consistency of the personal data protection system and thus greater security. In this way, the independence of the supervisory authority is also ensured as an essential part of the system as a whole. On the other hand, the Directive provides for the possibility of introducing a different regime relating to criminal proceedings. According to Art. 18 of the Directive, as well as recitals 20 and 49 of its preamble, the national legislature may in such a way establish the protection of personal data collected in criminal proceedings in order to comply with the national procedure governing those proceedings. In recital 20 of the Directive, the EU legislature also pointed out that the Directive should not prevent Member States from defining in national criminal law procedural transactions and procedures for the processing of personal data by courts and other judicial authorities. Therefore, with regard to the courts and the prosecutor's office, separate supervisory authorities guaranteeing the independence of the courts and the prosecutor's office are laid down in the provisions amending other laws. The draft law focuses on the tasks of the President of the Office arising from the specificities of the processing of data for the purpose of preventing crime, conducting investigations, detecting and prosecuting perpetrators of criminal offences and executing penalties. They shall complement the tasks of the President as laid down in the Personal Data Protection Act. The President of the Office will have the possibility to carry out checks, to process personal data, using, as a rule, the procedures regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act. This solution constitutes an additional guarantee element, in the maximum possible approach to both systems for the protection of personal data, but also taking into account their specific characteristics. The President of the Office, of his own motion or at the request of the person concerned, shall be able, by means of an administrative decision, to order the controller or the processor to restore his or her lawful status. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rights of persons set out in Chapter 4 of the draft law, i.e. the right of access to personal data - art. 23 that right has been defined as making available or transferring to the applicant a copy of the personal data or drawn up in an accessible form an extract from those data; the right to supplement, update or rectify personal data where those data are incomplete, outdated or false - Article. 24; the right to delete personal data where such data have been collected or processed in breach of the provisions of this Law - also Article. 24. Where it is found that the data are incomplete, outdated or incorrect, the controller shall ex officio delete the data. According to the draft article. 25 The controller will be obliged without undue delay to temporarily restrict the processing of personal data if: the data subject disputes the correctness of personal data and their correctness or irregularities cannot be established; and personal data are not deleted, must be... Excuse me: personal data that are being deleted must be retained for evidence. The proposed rules give the data subject the opportunity to request information concerning, inter alia, the purposes for which personal data, sources of data are to be used today, the right to lodge a complaint with the President of the Office or another supervisory authority on the basis of separate provisions, in the event of a breach of the rights of the person as a result of the processing of his or her personal data and the contact details of the President of the Office or of another supervisory authority. The controller will also provide information on the name, location and contact details of the controller and, if necessary, on the contact details of the data protection officer for the purpose of implementing the above mentioned. the rights of persons. A person whose personal data has been processed unlawfully shall be entitled to lodge a complaint with the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data within 30 days from the date of notification of the breach or receipt of information from the controller. On the other hand, the draft assumes that information will not be provided if it would result in: disclosure of information obtained as a result of operational and exploratory activities, making it difficult or impossible to identify, detect or combat criminal offences or prevent them, hindering the conduct of criminal proceedings, criminal enforcement, criminal tax proceedings or in cases of criminal offences or tax offences. Information will also not be provided in situations of threat to life, human health or security or public order, threats to national security, including defence or security, and economic grounds for the functioning of the State, as well as significant violations of personal property of other persons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The introduction of the possibility for the administrator not to provide information is based on the grounds set out in Directive 2016/680 as set out in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 3 Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Your Marshal, shall I finish, or may I continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u510	Half a minute, Minister, because we're very late. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Then tell me when to finish. Half a minute, so point it out. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Maybe. One of the main tasks of the controller will be to ensure that personal data have been processed legally and reliably and with the necessary technical and organisational measures. And if I'm gonna finish, then... Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In presenting this draft law, I would like to stress the importance of the proposed legislation, which gives priority to the rights of natural persons, while ensuring a uniform legal framework for the processing of personal data throughout the country, which will result in the smooth implementation of the statutory obligations of law enforcement agencies, prosecutions, courts and the effectiveness of those authorities in order to prevent and combat crime. Thank you, Minister. I think it was a good punch line at the moment. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Please allow us to continue our work within the committee, of course. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the draft law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime, print No 2989. Perhaps I would agree with your opinion of the marshal because we are really behind schedule, and the presentation of this project by Minister Jarosław Zieliński was very detailed. For order purposes, it is worth recalling once again some general information related to this government initiative. The Minister has already mentioned that the proposal itself results from the need to implement into the Polish legal order the solutions contained in Directive 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of penalties, on the free movement of such data and repealing the previous Framework Decision of 2008. As you know, this protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data is one of the fundamentals, you can say, determinants and rights contained both in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. These acts provide that every legal person has the right to the protection of personal data relating to it, and the reform of the processing and protection of personal data in the European Union itself is obviously due to the need to ensure even more effective protection of personal data of individuals due to technological progress, which results in an increase in the amount of data processed. The instruments to date in the evaluation of the European institutions have not been sufficient. After all, the individual data in a way, you can say, were objective and are increasingly exposed. This previously mentioned Directive 2016/680 also regulates the exchange of information, which includes personal data, between law enforcement authorities of the Member States of the European Union and third countries. Regulation in force on this subject in the form of a repeal of the previous European Directive of 1995. While the European Parliament and the Council applied to the whole processing of data in Member States both in the public and private sectors, they did not apply to the processing of personal data in activities outside the scope of Community law, such as actions in the context of judicial cooperation in criminal matters or police cooperation. Finally, I would like to point out that one of the main objectives of this regulation is to maintain a balance between the right to privacy and the need for the police and other legitimate and active actors in the area of preventing and combating crime, including protection against threats to security and public order and the prevention of such threats, confidentiality in the processing of data by competent authorities in this area. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports government submission and will actively participate in the work on this project. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u512	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u513	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice is so busy with itself, ladies and gentlemen, a crazy translation from subsequent scandals, which every step of the way, is so busy filling in profitable positions by their families and party activists that it has not been able to introduce legal solutions ensuring the protection of Poles' personal data since April 2016. By irresponsible and inefficient PiS governments, the personal data of Poles processed in connection with prevention and fight against crime are currently not covered by any legal regulations. The EU Directive, the full name of which has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, was adopted on 27 April 2016. The law introducing the provisions of the Directive into Polish law should apply from May 2016. Unfortunately, the PiS government couldn't do it again. The bill, which should enter into force in May, was published on the website of the Government Legislative Centre on 18 April. Since then, real work has begun on this project. His first reading takes place today, November 22. What does that mean? This means that within six months there is no regulation regarding the processing of personal data of Poles in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. When are they gonna be here? It is not known because the PiS government cannot properly carry out the legislative process, as demonstrated by this project. Ladies and gentlemen! According to your assumptions, the proposed legislation was to be consulted, among others. with the Supreme Court or with the General Data Protection Officer. According to the information attached to the bill, you did not refer the bill to these bodies. Why? In addition to introducing EU regulations, perhaps the bill contained another bottom, which could indicate, for example, Supreme Court? In addition, the draft law was not accompanied by comments submitted by the Panoptykon Foundation. Another issue concerns the provisions of the law itself, through which you put over the regulations of the directive that you have politicised the prosecutor's office. According to Art. Point 1 (3) of the draft law provides for the supervision of the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the purposes referred to in point 1, excluding personal data processed by the prosecution and courts. This exclusion is much broader than the exemption under the Directive, which allows the supervision of independent judicial authorities to be excluded from the powers of the supervisory authority in the exercise of justice. I would like to remind you that according to the current Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Polish judicial system is governed by the Supreme Court in Poland, common courts, administrative courts and military courts, not by the prosecutor's office, which is currently under the supervision of politicians, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro. The next issue concerns the destruction of the basic objective of the Directive. According to Art. 3 point 1 of the draft law does not apply to the protection of personal data contained in the files of cases or activities or in registration devices, including those created and processed using information technology, carried out on the basis of, inter alia. Penal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure, Tax Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure, Law of the Prosecutor's Office and Enforcement Acts issued on their basis. Another point concerns the under-precise wording of the Article. Point 3 (2) states that the provisions of the Act do not apply to the protection of personal data processed in connection with the provision of national security, including in the context of the implementation of the statutory tasks of the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service and the Central Anti-corruption Office. In view of the lack of clarification of the time limit, national security and the reference to the statutory tasks of individual services, it is likely that all statutory tasks, including those which have nothing to do with national security, will be understood by national security. One of the statutory tasks of the CBA is e.g. recognition, detection and prevention of crimes against competition rules. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The need for legislation implementing the Directive of Parliament and of the Council is undisputed. Few of this, the legal arrangements for the 27 April 2016 Directive, which we are talking about, should already be in force. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and the government bill contains errors. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this bill being sent to committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u514	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u515	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft government law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime, print No. 2989, is indeed a draft implementing the recommendations of the EU directive, which has been issued quite a long time ago, with which there was a problem. We have recently introduced a lot of powers in Poland for various types of services to share our personal data and process them, which has aroused many emotions in this room, because the security problem has always been raised and not fully solved or explained, so this problem existed. This law indeed regulates the protection of personal data in many respects, indicates that the data subject will be able to request information concerning, inter alia, data. the purposes for which personal data are intended and the possibility to submit a request for rectification or deletion, as well as information on the source of personal data, may be requested by the controller to access and supplement his or her personal data, update, rectify or delete that it will be supervised and that data controllers will have to assess, within certain time limits, which of their data are unnecessary, and that data will be deleted. In addition, in any way we begin to lean also on the way in which our personal data is protected. On the other hand, we also have a number of comments on the draft law. Indeed, much broader consultation would be necessary in this case, as it is a law on very sensitive issues. We also note that it is too far-reaching that the prosecution and the courts are actually excluded from the directive's recommendations, or that they may be treated in a completely different way. The lack of data protection that is processed as a result of proceedings is real. Our club will, of course, vote for us to continue to proceed on this project in committee. We will even want a subcommittee to be set up to consider this project, because it is a large project, with a number of references, and I think we should work it very calmly, very carefully, so that we can then have this final effect boldly and with a clear conscience here in the Chamber together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u516	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u517	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, as my previous speaker mentioned, we are retarded about this project. As Modern, we are definitely in favour of continuing to proceed on this bill. We believe that the directive we are discussing, which we are discussing, leaves ample room for the legislator to develop ways to gather information, store, transmit information, so we believe that it would be appropriate to debate in committee and perhaps even to consider a debate in the subcommittee. Because there are a number of regulations to this bill, regulations on the ways in which the individual uniformed services will refer to this data. So we can't make a mistake. The way in which we will also exchange these data with other countries must be absolutely subject to scrutiny and must be carried out properly. That is why we are in favour of referring the project to the committee and considering the establishment of a subcommittee on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u518	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u519	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Today we proceed to the process of first reading on a new legal standard regulating the protection of personal data processed in relation to the prevention and fight against crime. It is a government-wide large-volume bill containing very detailed solutions and regulations on protection, including the processing of personal data, but only related to the prevention and fight against crime. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, having regard to the current geopolitical situation, has assessed this draft law with understanding and seriousness. The draft shall lay down the rules and conditions for the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities in order to identify, detect and combat criminal offences, including threats to security and public order, and to prevent them, as well as the execution of provisional arrests, penalties, criminal penalties and coercive measures resulting in deprivation of liberty. The proposal for a law also contains provisions on the rights of persons whose personal data are processed by the competent authorities for the purposes referred to above. The proposal also provides for the supervision of the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities, excluding personal data processed by the courts and the prosecutor's office. It is not possible to ignore the provisions dealing with the tasks of the supervisory authority, the obligations of the controller and the processor, the manner in which personal data are secured, and the modalities of cooperation with the supervisory authorities of other Member States of the European Union. The draft also contains provisions on criminal liability for violation of the provisions contained in the draft law in question. While at first glance the project would seem to be another rigorous solution, after careful analysis of it, its reading cannot be reached. Indeed, the rules, quite condensed, may appear to be rigorous with regard to the average citizen, but a deeper analysis of the project also calls for attention to the fact that it contains a whole range of safeguards, including tasks imposed on the supervisory authority, as treated by the provision of the Article. 5. The provisions of the project also deal with the possibility of a complaint to the administrative court against the decision of the President of the Office, which is a guarantee for citizens aimed at ensuring the effective protection of personal data collected for the purposes specifically indicated in the Act. The third chapter deals with rules on the processing of personal data, including the inadmissibility of the processing of such data as racial, ethnic, political, religious, worldview or genetic data. The rights of data subjects cannot be ignored at this point. The draft chapter 5 shall be devoted entirely to the controller and the processor of personal data. The project also includes the possibility of using new technologies, which, according to my club, requires a calm, detailed and in-depth and analytical explanation of the scope and needs. I would like to mention here, what will be of interest to every citizen, the rules protecting personal data, as referred to in Article. 39 draft law. A number of questions and comments arise in relation to this issue, in relation to the real situation and the real security of personal data. High Izbo! Facing the objectives set out in the draft law, without denying the ratio legis of its adoption and implementation on the one hand, while on the other hand the development of the matter of the law protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats is in favour of directing the project to further work in the parliamentary committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u520	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u521	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we have multiple actors, multiple ways of data flow, extraordinary technology development. What do you think makes it possible, Minister, to guarantee the integrity of the protection of civil rights in this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u522	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u523	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. I would like the Minister to answer very precisely whether this law goes beyond this directive and, if so, to what extent. This is a very important question, please answer precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u524	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u525	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the security of storage, transmission and collection of personal data. Does the bill include raising standards for the collection, storage, transfer of personal data? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u526	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the main reasons for adopting the Police Directive was to facilitate the cooperation of authorities and institutions involved in combating crime, cross-border crime, but also terrorist crime. Here there is some doubt, because in opinions which prepared various institutions, among others. The Panoptykon Foundation contains a statement which summarises a little of this attempt to implement the Police Directive. I would like to read: both people potentially cooperating with services, e.g. in the field of counter-terrorism, as well as foreign counterparts of Polish services, cannot be sure that the data provided to Polish services will be used in a manner that is consistent with the intended purpose. Minister! If that is the case, this will make it more difficult for these authorities from different countries to cooperate. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether you have considered such doubts at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was there a comparative analysis of the legal solutions introduced in other countries in order to implement this directive during the work on the Law, so that your legal solutions in Poland in the case of Polish services correspond to those applied in other countries, and to rule out these doubts related to the correct use of data? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u528	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński to answer these four questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u529	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the matter of time limits and the fact that data are not protected, since the implementation of this directive is now being carried out, not a few months earlier. No, there are rules that still apply. It is not true that the data is not protected, that there are no regulations. There is, of course, a Personal Data Protection Act. After all, it is in force, and no one has repealed it to the extent that you are talking about, honourable Members. Besides, it is indeed a comprehensive law, not easy. It is not easy to implement European law at all, as we all probably know. We need a lot of precision, we need to compare the Polish legal system with the legal system of the European Union. Of course, what is always good and desirable must be compared with solutions implemented by other countries. We particularly compared them with German solutions. This analysis has been carried out very carefully, as I will tell you at the committee meeting. I'm just confirming that the analysis was. Of course, in such a case as this one is very difficult to balance with regard to this area. It is about balancing between the need to protect the data of citizens and those instruments that must be available to services so that we can all They were safe. It's a difficult problem, I'm aware of that. Besides, I talked about it many times when we were still in opposition. Those discussions were going on, too. I'm confirming it today. It seems that this law is prepared in such a way that this balance between these contradictions is found. It implements the EU rules, which we are obliged to adopt in our legal order, in my opinion, in the opinion of the government, ensures proper protection of citizens' rights in the field of personal data and at the same time does not paralyze services. Maybe I'll tell you about the deadline. This law is related to another law which was passed and entered into force in May. It's about the GDPR law. Without that one, you couldn't get in. So there must have been a temporal consequence. As this bill is not easy, it is extensive, it is indeed November, but nothing bad is happening because of it. We're gonna make those rules. It's a good thing all the clubs want to continue working on the committee. A lot of things are gonna have to be cleared up. Of course, this will have to be discussed very closely. We will be open to all comments, even if it is not easy. I repeat once again: the government is convinced that this is a well-prepared project that these different vectors and expectations can combine rationally and in a balanced way. There are two things here that are controversial. or at least curiosity, but with a rather cautious attitude, maybe negative. Of course, it's the D.A.'s office and the Secret Service. As regards the prosecutor's office, please, as a factor determining the acceptance of the exemption referred to in Article. 3 point 1 of the draft law should indicate the conceptual scope of the definition of the data set. In the light of doctrine and case law, the data set as defined in Article. Point 6 of the Directive should meet the following criteria. First of all, it must be a set of personal data. Secondly, personal data in this set must be arranged in such a way that the requested information can be found without the need to search the entire set. Third, data must be structured according to at least two specific criteria, and these criteria should relate to individuals. So the set is to be arranged in such a way that personal data can be searched without the need to search the entire set. This means that the evidence collected and documented in case files and activities does not create a set of data, i.e. they do not exhaust these criteria, this definition. They do not constitute a uniform set or can not be searched according to specific criteria for personal data contained in the evidence. The criteria according to which the file is organised apply not to personal data, but to the order in which the evidence or proceedings concerning normally separate criminal offences are carried out. This is as short as possible to answer to the committee's discussion on this exclusion of prosecutors' files. As far as the special services are concerned, the application of the proposed law has indeed excluded the area of national security, including from an institutional perspective special services, i.e. Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service and Central Anti-corruption Office. It should be stressed that Directive 2016/80, which is currently being implemented in this draft law, permits such a solution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 (2) 3 lit. a indicates that it does not apply to the processing of personal data within an activity not covered by Union law. In this context, it should be recalled that the Treaty on European Union in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The second sentence 3 states that, in particular, national security remains the exclusive responsibility of each Member State. At the same time, the provision of the Article. 2 (2) 3 lit. and the Directives should be read taking into account recital 14, which clarifies the scope of the Directive. According to recital 14, the provisions of the Directive should not apply to the processing of personal data in the course of activities outside the scope of Union law. At the same time, the concept of activities outside the scope of Union law is developed by identifying three areas which include: firstly, national security activities, secondly, agency or national security entities, thirdly, the processing of personal data by Member States during activities which fall within the scope of Title V of Chapter 2 of the Treaty on European Union. It is important to note that the European legislator lists separately, as you can see, national security activities and the activities of national security agencies or bodies. This is a substantive and formal justification for the applicability and appropriateness of this solution. But, of course, we will certainly still talk about this legitimacy at the committee or subcommittee meeting, because it is worth examining and discussing things in detail, and if there are doubts, then explain them. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's all I'd like to say when it comes to answering these questions. Of course, there was a question about how this is only the implementation of the directive, and to what extent It's gone. It goes a little bit, for example. in this respect - we will speak precisely about this - that we want in this law, because it is very closely related to this sphere, to regulate the use of cameras provided by police officers. Let me remind you that the aim here is to increase transparency, but today regulations allow the use of these cameras, use only in public places. This issue needs to be clarified and controlled. So I'm giving this as an example, but of course there are other details, and I don't want to go into it right now, because in such a thicket of things I'd get confused. We will, on the other hand, explain this at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u530	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime, contained in print No. 2989, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 11 December 2018. The Commission for Energy and Treasury submitted a report on the Government's draft act on compensation for the loss of free coal rights and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company, print No 3036. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the discussion on this item took place on the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government bill on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of the collection of free coal by persons who are not employees of the mining company (prints No 2958 and 3036). I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kazanecka to submit a report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u531	Your marshal, Cossack.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u532	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u533	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Commission for Energy and Treasury at its meeting today examined and adopted the Government's bill on compensation for the loss of free coal rights and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company from print No 2958 together with the amendment. This amendment clarifies Article. 2 (2) 3 of the above Act. I hereby recommend, on behalf of the committee, that the above law be adopted together with the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u534	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on behalf of clubs and circles for five minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u535	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've already been working on this project today. I just want to say that this bill is very good, expected, and thanks to Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, we have the opportunity to repair what the previous team has ruined. [[Applause]] That crew took it, we give it back and bring it back to justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u536	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the bill that we had a few hours ago at first reading and later at the committee on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company. Yes, indeed, the law adopted by the Sejm on 12 October 2017 is being fixed when he forgot about those most in need, those who have lost their husbands and fathers at the mine's workstation, and so the persons entitled to this compensation benefit are added, I would like to make it clear - not payment and not continuation, not surrender and no further payment of the equivalent for the coal depot, but completely closing the way for any investigation of the payment of the coal depot. It's true. It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, that the government did not invite to work on this act of the social body, which is the Association of Widows and Mining Orphans, which during, let's say, the process of the previous act was created in 2017, demanding its rights, seeking to become part of this compensation which the government accepted and applied to a narrow group of people. Today, at the committee meeting, there were representatives of this association, and this made it possible to clarify these provisions and to identify those who were also affected who could reach for this compensation, and for that I would like to thank them warmly. I think that all the members of the committee should be grateful to these people for having taken part in this bill. However, I do not understand the government's position, which insists that these funds are to be paid only from 1 June 2019. The good news is that the time to submit an application is 90 days. Minister, I believe that all those entitled to do this will succeed in some way, I do not want to say that I will serve, but that these proposals will be accepted so that these people have a chance. We failed on the first project in 2017. At that time, the government proposed a 10-day period for the submission of applications, and then there was an amendment of 21 people, and the platform proposed 70. It is good, however, that the government took this into account and saw that it could not be done quickly during such a period. From this point of view, it is also worth thanking all the workers of the mines who were involved in this earlier procedure, as well as the directors of the mines, the company presidents for the smooth organization of this project. Then we set, and above all the government, a very high bar, which in certain situations was not able to pass and did not allow eligible persons to submit an application within a period of time so that they could receive these funds. Then, High Izbo, there were voices in this courtroom that this compensation had to be paid quickly. We've been working in October, and the government wanted to pay for Barborka, and certainly before Christmas. Today we're looking at the same period, October 22nd, giving 90 days to a smaller group, because then there were over 230 or 250... 230 thousand. persons. Today we only have 24,000, of which 14,000. He's already applied, and we're saying it's only after 90 days. Once again, I would like to thank all those who have paid attention to this project. I hope that the employees of coal companies as well as the boards of companies will be able to make the payment of this benefit effective. However, I regret the fact that this benefit and this statement which must be made by the entitled parties closes the way for them to apply on a judicial basis for the payment of the equivalent for the coal debt. You're doing this by law. You did it then, October 12, 2017, for the first time, and you're doing it again. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Seeing the sensitivity of matter and seeing that the government is unable and does not want to take action on the continuation of the payment of the monetary equivalent, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this project. However, I would like to point out to you that in 2014, when it was decided to suspend or postpone the payment of the coal debt, the current Minister of Energy, who was then an MEP, stated clearly: if the deputy was to be liquidated, it should be taken over by the state...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u538	Thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u539	...as it did in the case of pensioners, railroad workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u540	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u541	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By representing the Kukiz club15 on a complementary project, as if the original intention to compensate for widows and mining orphans, I would like to say that we are definitely in favour of this solution. The Kukiz Club15 will support them in their entirety. It also recommends the availability of Members' Offices in cooperation and any assistance from the Members' Offices and Members of Kukiz15 for those who will apply for such compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u542	Thank you very much, sir. There is no Mrs Monica Rosa. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u543	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! We will support - as before, in the afternoon, I spoke in my first speech - this project, because it fixes, improves the bill that you broke, I will say it now, in that first edition. This is what we have been paying attention to, and the parties have been paying attention to it. For what reason? I don't get into that anymore. There may have been difficulties, but it was known, and it is not revealing at the moment, because the Minister then committed himself to doing so. Is that what happened? That's what happened. It's not a discovery, and it's nothing corrective. But where did this situation come from? It's not revealing either. There was no deliberate action here, just a difficult situation in mining. Remember - those who are connected with mining, especially the miners, know - what was the price of coal at the time. It was a consensus of trade unions, companies. Then, in order to save mines and the mining situation, we decided to suspend payments. It's a good thing it's being realized. This is not a blessing, nor is it a saving, to repair what the predecessors have corrupted. We supported it, we supported it from the beginning, two years ago, a year ago, right now, too. It's the right thing to do. Just my question: Is this done already, Minister, this situation 100% ? There have been voices today, also in the committee, that there may still be some people, some groups, because these are a number of groups within what we do... Are we gonna get this done, and we're gonna be cool, or is there gonna be more to go on in the meantime? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u544	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. The Member doesn't have one. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u545	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the allegations that there have been no discussions with the social or interested party about the coal debt, I ask you very much to know whether the government, the Minister, has spoken to those who have benefited from this possibility that they may have been able to discuss the draft law with you in substance. Tell me if this bill will be the final bill for widows and orphans. This applies primarily to the mining and coal industries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u546	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u547	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You mentioned that the people - and this is also written in the bill - who made these applications which in some sense are not subject to... They were completed, just for example. time's up. Will these people not have to submit these applications? The question is: How will these people be informed that these proposals are still valid? Will they have to submit any additional letter in order to receive a reply, or will the companies directly concerned and included in the Act inform about it? Second question. Minister, a bit of a commotion at the committee meeting was introduced by one of the Members. We're talking about whether or not you've filed an application. And now that's the question. One of the Members said that these people, when making a statement, must withdraw this request in court if they have any rights. Is this really the case, or is this information contained in this proposal, the model of which is attached to the bill? One last question. Minister, you used to be [[♪ The bell ♪]] He promised that he would take care of the issue of pensioners and miners, who during the period e.g. Since 2015, when it was limited, they have retired and retired. You also said that perhaps this process could somehow be discussed with the CEOs of coal companies and that this could be done through coal companies. Will the Minister continue this kind of conversation? Is there hope for these people that they will receive such a one-time witness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u548	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u549	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was interested in an issue related to the comments that were made in the context of the public consultation. Well, the government's intention is to close the way to a later investigation of the deputy by paying compensation. It's obvious. However, during the public consultation, the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland pointed out that according to the Constitution, this type of... There is no effective record of this kind in a statement that must be filled by those who wish to receive compensation. This is a statement from which... It is incompatible with the Constitution with this provision concerning the waiver of the right to appeal to a court against a claim for the right to free coal. The state in the course of the public consultation rejected this remark, but did you analyse this situation: What will happen if people actually do? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna make these statements, and then they're gonna go to court again? Isn't that going to be a situation where the courts are flooded with a wave of proposals in this case? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u550	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u551	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal is very much needed and expected. Those who have been deprived of this by the Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL expect this law to be implemented without delay. In the context of what has already happened here, as Mr Gadowski has said, which appears to be a defender of these laws, mining, Minister, please answer who is responsible for the situation that occurred in mining, including the fact that the rights of persons entitled to free coal have been removed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u552	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski to answer questions. [[I wanted to come forward with a corrigendum, to tell you.]] Allow me, Minister. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. One minute. Please hurry up...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u553	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think the Member has understood or understood mining matters, the deputy, she's a new Member, she hasn't analyzed it. [[I get it. I get it.]] I would like to inform you that the Civic Platform, the Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL in 2015 under the law, only by law could it do so, extended the payment of the monetary equivalent to pensioners and the miners of the PRG, more than 10 thousand. people get something like this. It was within the authority of the government and could have done so by means of a law. All the competences in the field of coal debt, which we are discussing today, concern the agreement of the social side with the board of directors, or one at a time... And that's what these boards do. That's what you said earlier, Minister, that in your reign, these 6,000. It's completely cut off, and you're doing it by law, and for the first time, you're taking it away by law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u554	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u555	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll answer your questions. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak asked about those who were invited, personally by me. I must say that the ladies who were at the committee meeting today were in my parliamentary office in April or March, I don't want to make a mistake now, but in the first half of the year. At the time I presented the principles of this law, I said that it was at the stage of discussions with the Ministry of Finance, and even one lady, knowing that it was in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, gave an interview and said that I had failed to keep my word, because it was already to be adopted in June or July. She just didn't say that the bill was prepared by the Ministry of Energy by June, by the department in which my person is managed, and she was already in inter-ministerial consultations, we talked to the Ministry of Finance, and you knew that. Other widows from another environment were also informed about this. Here I would like to thank Mr Matusiak, who has been in constant contact with a large group of people associated with this law. We presented the bill and its foundings also in a trialogue, because the union environments were also interested in it. Hence it was, I think, quite good information about what would be in the bill. I must even say that later in the inter-ministerial work in the office related to the legislative process, after an examination of the documents that we had at the heart of this law, it was considered that we should also extend certain provisions to try to include a whole group of people who could be entitled to benefit from this compensation. Mr Gadowski's question was about what is the information about people, about the 14,000. Those persons who have completed the request, if this is a supplement, at least this is the arrangement, and have established an account to be transferred will be informed about the transfer transaction because they meet the criteria. There will be information addressed to them personally, because we have the data of these people, so that they will be personally notified, and those who still have something to complete, have not completed it, will be asked to supplement it. The important thing is that we already have direct contact with these people, so that we will exercise this right. As far as judicial matters are concerned, as Mr Wójcik also said, this is indeed an important issue, and it is in the act, as in the previous one, that those who apply make a statement under the strict rules of the Penal Code that they will not enter the judicial path, that is their unilateral statement. If such a dispute continues today, they must inform the court in which such a dispute takes place. The moment it turns out there's going to be an appearance on the court road, which the prosecutor's office raised, then we explained the matter on the permanent committee... Indeed, the prosecution has decided that the statutory provisions comply with this issue concerning flooding, and we in the Act also say that one path can be used: either a judicial route, taking the risk of investigating a deputy by court or a statutory road related to compensation. These two possibilities cannot be combined, even if the court did not share its position in the judgment. We already have the positions and judgments of the courts which believe that the companies did so legally and effectively, so just in case there is no flood, each person signs it and is subject to the provisions of the Penal Code. Hence, it is not possible to be in dispute and to benefit from compensation. On the other hand, about the $12,000. I mentioned this - in fact, we talked about this at the triangular assembly, and I think that in the long run, if this economic situation were to persist in companies, we could try to regulate this issue not by law, because we would then have unwarranted public aid and we would not defend it in the European Commission... This is where we could... These people had powers and were deprived of them, there was no body to represent them. I ignore here whether the employees were actually persuaded personally or by the bodies of the social party who agreed to terminate the collective agreement because there was a difficult situation, but they resigned... And now I'm going to say something that was raised at the triangular team meeting that we talked about with the unionists. The point is, we're gonna try to make a certain cesarean, 'cause if we're gonna pay that $12,000 right now. people - I'm skipping that at what point, whether next year or not - and they would have to do it because we talked about it too... There are two main companies: Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and PGG. I'd name it here, for example. up to 120 million plus indeed tax credits, because we can't slow it down because it wouldn't be in line with the law. However, there is a question about the claims of the next groups, not just those 12,000, but others who are retiring. How do you legally establish a cesarean? Some people on the social side have also raised this issue and said that for today, especially in the area of PGG, they want this topic not to be considered, first they want to achieve stability when it comes to investment. However, we need to consider next year or next year, in some period, whether we can legally describe whether the companies will be able to legally describe that they will pay some 12,000. persons. The question arises, what about the others who retire in 2016 or 2017. And here's the second problem we've had as we've been preparing a position for the triangular team meeting. [[Minister, what about these applications before the court? Do they have to withdraw them?]] They've got to back off. Yes. Then there is information that the application is in court, and we expect that if there is information concerning the court, it must also be confirmed that the application is withdrawn, otherwise the application will not be dealt with positively. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it doesn't hang anywhere...]] That's what they're making. They must in their motion... See in the annexes, there's a statement of what the case is in the court. They must withdraw it and confirm that they have withdrawn their application from the court. About the question, ma'am... Uh-huh. Closing the road or closing the topic, as far as the group is concerned, was in the speech of the Member representing the PSL. After all these analyses, we close the issue of widows, orphans, that is, the next, last group, and those who didn't make it. Thus, after the provisions of this law there will be no more groups, no one who had a deputy had the right to it and was deprived of it. We are closing this issue. We solve this issue systematically. The Member asked about coal companies. The truth is, in fact, in years, when there was a big problem in the coal sector, coal companies... I think that this dispute that is notoriously occurring in the space between the groups... I think we could also, knowing everyone... The truth was this. The situation was difficult, and I confirm that too, because we all remember - we were Members of the Sejm at the time - that the coal companies had made a decision, that they would not be able to regulate it and the social side... I think it's hard to blame. This is the union. They expressed their willingness to deprive those who had such authority of deputies. And that's why at the moment when the budget opportunity came up, we decided not to go through coal companies, we just took the burden on ourselves. It is about what we also talked about, even Mr Gadowski called it. Yes, we took this burden on ourselves as a state budget to compensate those people for years when their deputies were not paid out, and at the same time we tried to overpay and solve this problem systematically by building a new quality in coal companies. Therefore, the state budget took this burden on itself, first for this group of 230 thousand. persons. That's when about 200,000 were used. People. Now 24,000 are eligible. persons. We are closing this issue, which was said by coal companies at the time, the point is that the board of directors has declared collective agreements... The truth is also that, as far as ownership is concerned, there is always the appropriate ministry behind the companies, the Treasury. Today the Ministry of Energy oversees the Polish Mining Group, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. It must also be said that the truth is that the board of directors, but also the owner - at the time the Ministry of Treasury was the owner, in some kind of formula it was probably the Ministry of Economy... And these are kind of the beginnings that made us settle this issue today. I also think that Mr PSL, who is saying - and this is also where - about the 2017 bill... No. I know that, even some ladies, the widows told me: You know, you said it so that you didn't include us then. It hurts a little bit. Yeah, we didn't take widows and orphans into account because we didn't have the full recognition of all the people who had those powers. I was already saying, when I introduced that bill, that we would go back to that. First, however, we wanted to define this larger group in some way, settle this issue, compensate for it. Then we immediately began to draw up this law. Thus, this is not the revision of the 2017 Act. This bill is a supplement to this law. On the other hand, we repair the condition after the 2015 events. Thank you very much to all parliamentarians for discussing this bill, because I think it rarely happens...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u556	Minister! I have a question for you. Unfortunately, I couldn't ask him sooner. Mr Gadowski asked just about this withdrawal. Is it enough simply to withdraw, or is it necessary to cancel the proceedings? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just a statement of withdrawal? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the request of the Chief of West Pomeranian Department of the Department of Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to give its consent to criminal liability and to apply a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski (print No 3001). Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u557	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report from the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Polish and Immunity Offices on the application by the Head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to allow the Sejm to exercise criminal liability and to apply a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. Marshal of the Sejm VIII term of office pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 1b and Article Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator addressed on 12 September 2018 the above request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for consideration. This request was examined by the Rules of Procedure Commission at its meeting on 8 November 2018. This meeting was not attended by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, who was properly notified with the effect of service to a home address with a double aviso. The Commission decided to consider this request despite its absence. High Seym! It is important to clarify why the Second High Sejm will deal with the request for waiver of immunity by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski for the second time. It is because the description of the various acts and the period during which they were committed has changed. There are also other persons involved than before. It is also about accepting a higher amount of property and personal benefit, because it is at least 405 thousand. zł. In addition, there are two new corruption charges. It was therefore necessary to submit a second application. The national prosecutor submitted such a request, as I said, on 24 June 2018. Consequently, the Rules of Procedure Committee shall submit two proposals to the High Sejm. The first proposal concerns the adoption of the application by the head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to allow the Sejm to hold Mr Stanisław Gawłowski criminally liable. The second proposal concerns the adoption of a request by the head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to agree to a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u558	Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. There's no envoy. We will therefore proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of healthcare (Print No. 3017). Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński will present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u559	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Good evening. I am very pleased to present on behalf of the government the justification for the bill on e-direction and waiting lists. This is another eHealth project that I have the pleasure of presenting to the High House. This project contains three key elements. The first is the introduction of regulations on the issue and implementation of electronic referrals. Electronic targeting is the functionality on platform P1, on the platform, which is the largest project currently funded by EU funds, from digital projects. This is a project that we have inherited, and we are now implementing its second phase, after eight years of failure to achieve its goals. As part of this project, we provide further elements of the eHealth ecosystem, and after the successful piloting of the electronic prescription, we have now moved to the next element, in line with the project plan, namely the electronic referral. Electronic referral is a document that supports the transfer process from one doctor, usually the primary healthcare doctor, to the other, to hospital treatment, to a specialist clinic. Or it is also about benefits - and here is an exception - in which there is radiation and which each time require the consent of a doctor, even in the case of those financed by private funds of a patient. This is, for example. C.T. scan. Electronic referrals are a product that we started in mid-October. The first phase of piloting is currently underway. As part of this first phase, we are working on integration between our system and doctors' office systems. This primarily serves to ensure that, before piloting starts in such a sensitive sector as the health system, it is possible to ensure that this pilotage is in principle functional from the first days, and that the errors that will occur as part of the pilotage will not have a fundamental character that could undermine confidence in the entire eHealth ecosystem. As part of this regulation, we indicate among others. the types of benefits or we are giving a delegation to a regulation indicating the types of benefits that will be covered by an electronic referral. We also point to emergency procedures and describe a number of technical issues related to the implementation of e-direction. Let me tell you a little bit. E-direction, i.e. The document in electronic form does not require, first of all, that it is a patient, a person who is a carrier of information. He was a carrier of information in a common sense, because today the paper referral needs to be carried out, the patient himself does so, and the electronic referral at the time of recording it in the system is available to every realizer in Poland. All you have to do is call, give a reference number or give a PESEL and a 4-digit security code and, on the basis of this, the realist can save us for the appropriate benefit. We also hope that the introduction of electronic referrals will help shorten the queues, because we know that there is a phenomenon that patients sign up for more than one specialist advice from a doctor of the same specialty. And by electronic referral at the moment when such a referral is issued, the doctor of a particular specialty will no longer be able to issue a second one, which is completely uncontrollable in a situation where the system is purely paper. And this is the first most important change. The second amendment concerns provisions related to waiting lists, i.e. colloquially speaking queues. The most important change is the considerable flexibility in the management of waiting lists. And this is a practical example. What happens today when the patient cancels his appointment? Under the current rules, a patient should be invited to replace him, who has another visit, e.g. Half an hour later, and this patient and all other patients should be informed that the deadline has shifted, because in fact the whole list should be moved by one eye, inform, otherwise, in writing. As you all certainly know, this is a completely dead recipe. Fortunately, because it would be a great waste of resources. We're proposing a new solution. Within this solution, it will be possible to manage places on waiting lists flexibly by indicating by the healthcare provider, by the clinic, the deadline by the hospital to the patient who cancelled the visit, to any person who has a deadline of between 7 and 30 days from the original one. Why 7 to 30 days? It's a practical application. If we could convince... If we were to allow this to be done to the full extent, in an extreme case we could offer a visit to someone who had it planned for a day later, but as you know, a day later most of us have plans and such a change would not be comfortable at all. At the same time, if the end period was extended indefinitely, there could be abuse. From 7 to 30 days, on the one hand, it offers a practical benefit and on the other hand it prevents abuse. In addition, we implement the request of patient communities, giving them the opportunity to report on the nearest delivery date in daily cycles. This is the answer to the postulates that emerged after the National Health Fund provided the portal with time limits for treatment. On this portal you can, just remind, check when and where you can get a given type of benefit in the near future. This is so important that very often the diversity in availability is very large even in the same county or voivodship, and many patients would be willing to even overcome a certain distance, so that the waiting time is shorter. And this leads to a more efficient management of the resources that we have in the health system, and access to this information only makes sense when they are up to date. Today we know from patients that this update every week, and sometimes even less so, while keeping the gate for those smaller healthcare providers who have some technical problems, and giving them the opportunity with the agreement of the director of the application department still weekly. This could be about, for example. clinics that give advice once a week. It wouldn't make any sense for them to inform each day about the current deadline, because it's just going on. A week doesn't change. In addition, we ask the healthcare providers to provide the National Health Fund with delivery schedules. Today only waiting lists are sent to the National Health Fund, i.e. such a queue, but only in respect of the selected group of benefits, so-called. first-timers, i.e. the first consultation, which occurs only once in the case of repeated visits therapy. We want to know the full timetables for all benefits, including those with a treatment plan, and we expect the providers to report this information to us. This is not a great additional obligation, because any provider who provides benefits according to the schedule that has the schedule of visits already has this information. So that there is no need for additional reporting. And the third thing that is important in terms of introducing health solutions is support for pharmacists. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 January is an obligation for every pharmacy in Poland, firstly, to implement electronic prescriptions and secondly, which at this stage is much more important, to generate an electronic document for the implementation of the prescription. What does that mean? That means we eliminate a million paper taxa recipes overnight. About as many as there are every day in Poland. The electronic prescription document is stored in the system and is immediately visible to the patient's account at the patient's address. gov.pl and does not require any additional reporting from the pharmacist. Moreover, the checks of the National Health Fund will no longer have to visit the pharmacy, but will be able to analyse the implementation documents recorded in the system and only on this basis assess whether there has been any irregularities. It saves time for the pharmacist and the fund. So that following the entry into force of this obligation, after consulting the pharmacists' environment, we decided to take unprecedented action. It fits into a broader context because this year for the first time in the history of Polish eHealth, support instruments financed from the state budget were allocated twice as much as European funding for the implementation of the P1 project. So far, we have often been accused of financing very generously the construction of central systems, systems of the Minister of Health, and we do not have the resources to support those who are their users, namely doctors and pharmacists. And this year, the amount of PLN 65 million will be paid to doctors and pharmacists after the law enters into force, which is twice what we have allocated to the development of platform P1. This support for pharmacists will allow any pharmacist to deduct from the tax base the cost acquired in 2018, we are talking about the whole year, software, equipment and accessories, so we are talking about computers, pharmacy software, code reader, all that is needed to equip a pharmacy position when it comes to computer science. This is the form we agreed with the Chief Pharmacy Chamber. It has met with a very good reception of the environment and we can see that this systematically increases the number of certificates of access to our system. The deadline is 1 January or even 31 December, and the rate of growth is so good that we are sure that even without a panic attack on the last day or week we will be able to achieve our goal of connecting about 15 thousand. pharmacies for this system by the end of this year. These are the three most important points: e-locating, better queue management and support for the pharmacist. And this is another project that supports the implementation of eHealth systems, which is a priority of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u560	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u561	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and with waiting lists for the provision of health care. Computerisation of the health system is not an objective for the Government of Law and Justice in itself. This is a tool to introduce modern solutions to the most necessary public service. Poles are very happy to use modern technologies, about 50% claims for benefits 500+ and 300+ submitted this year were sent to the authorities by electronic means and the threshold of 50% in the case of tax returns it was already possible to exceed 2 years ago. The Minister's statement, which preceded my speech, actually coincides with what I want to say to you, and that's because the Minister wrote the document and I read it. This year, thanks to the efforts of ministers Radziwiłł and Szumowski, we managed to pilot e-prescriptions, and already since 1 December the Social Insurance Institution will introduce mandatory electronic sick leave. Another service that will allow for better management of patients' hospital treatment, diagnostics and referrals to specialist advice will, of course, be e-direction. Like an e-recipe, it has all the advantages of an electronic document, it is always legible, it cannot be lost or destroyed. Its implementation can be ordered without going to the facility, which is convenient for patients, especially disabled people. Just give the reference number or PESEL number and the 4-digit security code. You can also see e-learning, like e-prescription, on the patient's online account, which is already available at the following address: patient. gov.pl. The proposed law sets out the provisions relating to the issuance and implementation of electronic referrals, and the attached draft regulation contains a list of benefits for which the new form will apply. This applies in most of the public-funded benefits, but also to those which need to be addressed regardless of the way in which they are financed, such as some X-ray studies. The procedures in force in the event of system failure have also been defined. Thanks to these solutions, it will be possible to safely carry out an e-routing pilot, whose start for patients is scheduled at the turn of 2018 and 2019. A major social problem, supported by the project, is the queues to specialist doctors. These are due to the under-use of working time, which is also due to the failure of patients to call on visits they are unable to benefit from. The envisaged changes assume that the National Health Fund will inform the SMS about the upcoming date of the visit of those patients who are waiting for it. Studies by private market operators show that this may reduce the number of missed visits by up to 50%. The possibility of flexible management of late dates should also be assessed positively. The clinic can offer them to any patient whose appointment is 7 to 30 days later. Thanks to this solution, the patient has a real benefit from faster access to the benefit and at the same time the occurrence of undesirable events that could occur in the absence of this 30-day upper limit is limited. A dead obligation to inform in writing about the change of the deadline is also being removed. The provider may use any means of communication for this purpose. More information will also be sent to the NFZ, which will thus be able to analyse the timetable for granting all benefits and not just the benefits provided to the patient for the first time. As expected by patient organisations, this will also improve the quality of data on the nearest free date. Another instrument supporting eHealth implementation is the financial support dedicated to pharmacists who are required by the end of this year. to connect to the P1 system in connection with the display of e-recept. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Each pharmacy will receive funding. The Law and Justice Club supports this draft law and recommends further proceding it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u562	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u563	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the draft e-direction bill. The Civic Platform has always advocated the computerisation of the health system and the introduction of all the facilities associated with the use of computer systems. The draft law currently proposed by the government includes amendments to 10 laws, in particular the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded health care, and nine other laws on electronic referrals, so-called. e-directions, as well as modification of the arrangements for waiting lists for the provision of healthcare. Following the launch in the fourth quarter of 2018 of the e-direction pilot run by the Centre for Health Protection Information Systems, Platform P1, it is necessary to modify part of the provisions on health care rules in the area of referrals. In the draft presented, the date of implementation of the various provisions of this law is astonishing, as the last provisions enter into force on 1 January 2020, and in fact the law enters into force 14 days after the date of publication. It seems to us that the idea of the bill is very right, Minister, but the pace is probably too fast. Why? Because in order to implement e-direction effectively, we need to effectively inform all providers. It cannot happen that the patient will remain suspended in the vacuum because there will be no electricity, because the computer system will be ineffective. And question: Are there really additional funds available in such a short period of time to invest not only under platform P1, but also under the 2019 budget, so that institutions that do not have sufficient equipment in this area can be instantly equipped? You can say that there is a very different degree of computerization, because some individuals, e.g. The one where I work will be very pleased with the introduction of this, but looking at the whole of Poland, it is, we think, far too soon. Another question - there are four small centres involved in this piloting, right? If I'm wrong, then correct me. Is that enough? Will it really work to translate this pilot into great institutions and places where the network of medical institutions is very rare? It is doubtful that only patients who are not fully computerized are exposed to electronic referrals and who, leaving the provider with information that they are going to go to a given place, and there they have already reached their destination, will not really even know where to go. I understand that there's a record in the bill, and I saw that you can, and even need to print out this referral to such a patient. But, as I say, it's not always a very simple matter. It happens to us, it's on the agenda, for example. There's no power for half an hour. And what will the provider do then? There is no dictum in the provisions of the Act. Great hospitals have their generators, but in POZs and specialist clinics it's not there. The Civic Platform, of course, supports the idea itself and supports the further process of this law, but it is necessary to make some changes to this law so that no life is threatened. The next question that is born is these queues. Because the purpose of this computerization is among others. shortening the queues. But initially it seems that it may not shorten, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just make it harder for the patients to stand in these lines. Because if the system leads to the queue, for example. a patient from Wrocław to Szczecin, because there is a place there, and there is no place here, is the question whether it is right and whether he will be able to go there at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u564	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski to present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u565	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In a few days, they enter into e-release. We already have an e-prescription pilot. It's about time we started introducing e-tracking. The amendment concerns the issue and implementation of e-directions and their use by patients. It shall include, in particular, clarification of the scope of documents supported in electronic form and the identification of the catalogue of cases in which the referral will be issued in paper form. The benefits of e-learning include: the possibility of remote registration, reducing the problem of illegibility of referrals, eliminating cases of loss of them and the option of tracking treatment history in the patient's online account. E-direction is supposed to rationalise the records on waiting lists. The patient will no longer be able to sign up for more than one waiting list based on the same referral. The amendments to the provisions of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds concerning waiting lists are aimed, inter alia, at: to make queue management more flexible for medical institutions, to provide information relevant to the availability of benefits to the NFZ and to require the NFZ to inform patients of the dates of the upcoming visits covered by the so-called "visits." Central queues e.g. by sending a text message. In the event of cancellation of the visit, the rules provide for the need to propose an exempted period to another patient from the list, which, however, due to the proximity of the time limit, is often not interested in taking advantage of this possibility and, as a result, the time allowed remains unused. The project shall include a solution which will enable any patient for whom the original deadline falls within the period of 7 and 30 days from the date of the exemption to submit a visit within that period. The additional range of data transmitted to the NFZ is to include, inter alia, a schedule for the provision of benefits, which includes not only information on patients on waiting lists, so-called. first time, but also among others. those who carry out visits to the treatment plan. The project also provides for amendments to the laws on personal income tax and corporate income tax. They will allow, as indicated, support for the purchase of IT equipment and software needed to connect to the P1 system of pharmacies. Computerisation in the health care system is very important and unimaginablely important for every patient, is expected by the patient environment. The Kukiz Club15 will absolutely support all solutions that will be moving towards a complete computerisation of this so that the patient's life is easier. We live in the 21st century and have waited a long time for action to finally introduce changes in the health system, IT changes, to enter into force, which is why we support this project. I hope this goes smoothly and they won't interfere with the power outage. I also hope that there will be ideas to allow medical institutions from other means, as part of a lump sum, to buy computer equipment so that there is no problem in the computerization of health care institutions and that any institution can freely issue documents in electronic form. As I said at the outset, Kukiz15 is absolutely behind this project. We will, of course, be in favour of further proceedings over him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u566	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Marek Ruciński, who will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u567	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Computerisation of the health system is one of the key elements needed to improve the functioning of the whole system. The draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care, for which I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Posel Club, is extremely important in this respect, both for patients and doctors. It is impossible to talk about this law in isolation from the e-release rules currently being implemented across the country. I believe that the experience gained in this project will allow us to introduce further facilities without as many problems as we are currently hearing. They result not so much from the reluctance of the medical community to new technologies, but, above all, from too weak or simply insufficient education addressed to doctors in the field of the operation of new systems. Please bear in mind that many doctors, which have already been touched many times, are approaching retirement age, and consequently, do not move in a computerized world as freely as their younger colleagues. However, this is not the reason why these solutions should be postponed, because they function successfully in other countries. I hope that, thanks to the experience gained during the introduction of e-releases and during the piloting of e-direction, which is to be made possible thanks to the changes that have been examined today, this will be introduced much more smoothly. Another very important issue that should be affected by the legislation we are debating today is the queues for specialists. If everything works according to the e-direction assumptions, the combination of these provisions with the queue system will enable it to be optimized and objective. We all want to be admitted as patients as soon as possible. Change the current state of affairs can only be a functioning IT system, which is why the piloting of e-directions will be so important. Effective testing of these solutions will eliminate potential errors and avoid dissatisfaction of both patients and doctors. The last point I would like to ask the Minister is the infrastructure in hospitals. The Minister was talking about the support of pharmacists. Increasingly developed IT systems obviously improve work, but the right equipment is needed to operate it. So I have a question about hospitals: Are improvements and enrichment of IT infrastructure to be financed by hospitals within the framework of a lump sum granted to them, or is the Ministry of Health planning to transfer additional funds to meet these needs? This is very important for large centres where these costs are significant, and let us not hide that the financial situation of these facilities is far from ideal. The state-of-the-art fully supports the idea of computerising the health system and will vote in favour of this project, but I would like to point out that these solutions should be well tested during piloting and supported by the provision of adequate funds for investment in health centres. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u568	Thank you. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u569	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, of course, is in favour of continuing the legislative process, working on this government project. We consider it a project well prepared. Besides, the Minister spoke with such calmness and knowledge of things today about these issues, which is certainly not meaningless. I am sure that many of the issues whether these elements that were raised by my previous speakers are important, because many of the big issues are made up of details. They can often delay or inhibit this important process, for many reasons, of course. However, we are convinced that during the committee's work this will be agreed and that these provisions that will be worked out will be consistent and, most importantly, I think they will be realistic when it comes to their implementation and implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u570	Thank you very much, sir. There are three people on the list who want to ask a question at this point. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign in? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Here we go. Mrs Margaret Navel, I do not see. Therefore, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u571	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Will the introduction of e-direction prevent the patient from choosing the recipient? The fact that you can choose a doctor according to your current regulations has been, is a very big achievement. Wouldn't it be so that the system would direct this patient where he would see the place, the slacks, to shorten the queues, but it wouldn't mean that the patient would get to the doctor or the facility he trusts and who he thinks are the best? That's what's happening right now. Patients throughout Poland have the right to choose a healthcare provider, to choose a specific hospital, a doctor, a clinic, a specialist. Will this change after the introduction of e-direction, which God forbid, but will the possibility remain? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u572	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u573	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a brief question: Why doesn't the bill provide for the funds for the full computerization of all medical facilities to generate a document faster, so that it doesn't waste too much time on bureaucracy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u574	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński to answer this question and earlier questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u575	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions, because they can be said how in the lens focus the questions we receive from patients, from doctors, from pharmacists, from all these stakeholders in the health care system. Firstly, I would like to address the issue of measures, because it has been addressed by many parties. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this project provides for measures for pharmacists - I admit - in such an extraordinary manner, because we are at the end of 2018 and they concern this year. This is due to the fact that in the course of the implementation of the electronic prescription it turned out that about 1/3 pharmacists operate on computers equipped with outdated operating systems, the use of which regardless of the functioning of the electronic prescription is simply a threat to the data of patients that are stored on this equipment. We had a choice: just to spell reality and say that these are the responsibilities, the pharmacists will adapt or apply positive solutions - and so we did - and hence the decision to support pharmacists. Earlier this year, in September, the High Chamber adopted a bill proceded by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy for the introduction of e-releases. This law transferred PLN 50 million to IT this year, which was paid to family doctors. That was the amount that went down in connection with the electronic layoffs, because family doctors are doing 80%. electronic layoffs, hence the logic of this solution. As regards other activities, local government hospitals have very large resources from regional operational programmes. Whether these funds are spent effectively, it is not for me to judge, but certainly a positive aspect of these projects is that many hospitals have received money for equipment, and this equipment, whether it is really used for these projects, will be able to be used for e-releases, e-recipes, e-directions, electronic medical records and all other e-solutions. With regard to hospitals for which the founding authority is the Minister of Health, we carry out this from the funds of the Operational Programme (Polska Cyfrowa), the e-service project. As part of this project, we will be computerising the largest hospitals, research institutes, which belong to the Minister of Health, so that we can say that hospitalization is also largely equipped or has the opportunity to apply for such measures. We are left with specialist offices, but in this case we need to consider the model of support. These are often clinics that they take, for example. 1 day a week. Here the simple question arises as to whether it is really appropriate to invest public funds in the purchase of equipment and software for such entities that carry out such benefits, e.g. Once weekly. In the opinion of the Minister for Health This is the group to which such measures should come in the last place, therefore, in order not to leave the providers alone to leave such a gap, next year we will make available an application which, in the form of a web browser available from each web browser, will make it possible to issue electronic prescriptions, issue referrals and use this eHealth ecosystem. This is intended primarily to ensure that everyone can use a secure and free application just as the Social Insurance Institution did. Here is the issue that you mentioned, namely the issue of effectiveness of implementation, how to prepare for it. Because it's not just a technological challenge, but it's also very much an organisational challenge. In my opinion, the Social Insurance Institution carried out this task very well, carried out over 35 thousand throughout Poland. training, they were carried out not only in group form, but also in the most expected form, i.e. the so-called. post training. Any doctor could have asked a trainer at the plant to come in and on his equipment, on his software, showed how to use electronic layoffs. What are the effects? The results are that in those voivodships where doctors really wanted to use it... It can be said that Warsaw, where there are more entities, more private entities, where it is easier. No. Which voivodship is the leader? West Pomerania, especially Koszalin. Excellent score. We see that there is no division into big cities, small cities. It can be seen that every region, if it wants to, can as much as possible lead to a very high level in this region when it comes to issuing these documents in electronic form. So that we are going to take advantage of the best practices that the Social Insurance Institution has shown us, and similar training we are going to implement for doctors. We are already carrying out a very large cycle of training for pharmacists, including station training for the smallest pharmacies, where there is a very practical obstacle: the pharmacist accepts himself, works alone, so when we organize training during working hours, he is not on this training because he is at work. Therefore, we use all these ways to reach the widest possible number of doctors and pharmacists, and if we can convince these groups, it is possible in our view to implement this. We are now moving on to the last group - but in fact this group should be the first - that is, patients. The professor asked about the printout. You asked me what a patient who doesn't use IT tools will do. Firstly, I have excellent news: Poles are very happy to use these IT tools, as said by the Member who presented the position of Law and Justice. More than half of the tax returns in Poland, ladies and gentlemen, those personal ones, not those who submit on our behalf to the accountant, are submitted in electronic form, more than half of the applications for 500+, 300+ - also in electronic form. From our experience, electronicisation does not only reach those younger ones, those who are more intuitively associated with such solutions, because more than half of the patients in the e-recipes pilot were patients over the age of 60. At the same time, we do not want to force anyone to participate in this digitalization. And that's what a printout is for. Any patient who wants a printout that looks like this referral we know today will be able to get it. Why? Because we want to show that this process will not be so different at first. Until everyone has an online patient account, we do not want to force them to use digital solutions. However, there is a fundamental difference, because the referral is no longer on paper, but it is in the system, and the paper is only information, it is only an image of what is in this system. I move on to the last doubts, namely the questions of Mrs Chybicka, whether the introduction of e-direction will prevent the choice of provider. Absolutely not, e-direction will be implemented as it is today. The only thing we do in this project is that we want to provide both the fund and patients with more information about where they can access the category of benefits more quickly. We still leave 100 percent freedom so that the patient can decide which selection criteria he will follow, deciding where he wants to pursue. On the other hand, we eliminate the pathological phenomenon, which was that, fearing that the waiting time is too long, the patient registered at the same time for several tips of the same type, blocking the place on the list for other patients. I think this is where I managed to answer all the questions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u576	Thank you, Minister. After this speech, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The modification of the rules on the issuing and implementation of e-routings and their use by patients includes, in particular, clarification of the scope of documents supported by electronic means. The rules aim, among other things, at: making queue management more flexible for medical institutions and requiring the NFZ to inform patients about the upcoming visits covered by the so-called. Central queues, e.g. by sending a text message. Information on the upcoming visit by the National Health Fund is intended to reduce the number of visits that have not been cancelled. So what is the scale of the non-revocation of visits that patients do not use at the moment? What is the cost of implementing the solutions covered by this regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u578	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft Government Act amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and the waiting lists contained in print No 3017 to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 22 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I don't see anyone else wanting to be on the list, so I'm shutting her down. I give the floor to Mrs Margaret Chmiel, the Civic Platform. You're welcome. You're the only person who's making a statement today, so we'll all be happy to hear your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u579	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u580	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u581	Ladies and gentlemen! As a Member of Pomerania Land, which also represents the Malbork and Tczewski District, I have tabled, at the request of the inhabitants, an amendment to the national budget for 2019, on which we are about to begin to process, asking for money to renovate the national road no. 22 from Malbork to Czarlin. The inhabitants of Malbork and Tczewski districts have been demanding for years to repair this road, which is a transit link from Kaliningrad through Poland to Berlin. It is in very bad condition, and on several kilometers there is not even asphalt surface, there is only used pavement surface. This is one of the last sections of the paved national road in Poland. The condition of this surface is not only burdensome for drivers, but especially for residents of houses along the mentioned paved road. Cars generate very big noise, let alone trucks. Apart from the most important - the entry from the pavement of the asphalt road suddenly on the pavement is simply dangerous, because it threatens to slip the car. Ladies and gentlemen! The inhabitants of Malbork and Tczewski districts deserve long-awaited renovation of this national road No 22. I appeal to Members, mainly PiS, Pomorskie, because it is you who have a majority in the Sejm, so you are voting out what you want, to support this amendment to my budget regarding the use of money for the renovation of this road. Thanks to this, it will be possible to start repairing this route next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-22-sejm-72-2.u582	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On November 25th, as every year, we celebrate the Day of the Railwayman. It is a celebration of railwaymen and railway workers on the day of St. Catherine Alexandria, their patrons. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 23 November 2018, at the latest by 11 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 09]]
