ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u1	High Izbo, resume. I'm sorry for the delay, but the Senate Bureau's meeting has been extended. I'm reopening the session, and I'm asking the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Act on the creation of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw and consider this item as item 30 of the ninth agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[No problem.]] I don't see why not. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 840, and the report of the committee In print No 840 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u2	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Report of the Joint Committees The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment On 7 June 2018, the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.]] The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the Joint Committee on 8 June. Following the examination of the Act at its meetings on 20 and 26 June 2018, the joint committees shall bring: the High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution without amendment. Purpose and subject of the bill. The purpose of the Act is first to ensure that the provisions of the Act of 20 February 2015 on renewable energy sources comply with the provisions on State aid. In addition, the Act aims to ensure compliance with the 2009 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and subsequently repealing the 2001 and 2003 Directives. In addition, the provisions introduced are intended to allow for the removal of doubts arising as to interpretation as to the Renewable Energy Sources Act. The amendments to the definition aim to increase the installed power in micro-installations to 50 kW, while the small installation is to be characterised by an installed power greater than 50 kW and less than 500. The definition directory has been extended, among others. on biomass of agricultural origin, biomass, toriphite and fixed purchase price. The definition of energy cooperatives for the establishment of an area of activity and the characteristics of cooperatives has also been modified. The Act introduces a definition of modernisation, enabling generators to obtain public aid for existing installations of renewable energy sources. The Act includes, among others:: clarifies the elements of the aggregate annual report of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office; amends the rules of the auction system; eliminates unnecessary elements contained in the statements made by energy producers in renewable energy installations; amends the principles of support for renewable energy sources by introducing, in addition to the auction system, new solutions for renewable energy generators for micro-installations and small installations for renewable energy sources using stable and predictable energy sources, i.e. Hydroenergy, biogas, agricultural biogas; it allows the combination of energy sources within one or more capacity introductions; it amends the rules on the taxation of wind power plants. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the announcement, except for the provisions affecting the property tax that are to enter into force retroactively from the beginning of 2018 and parts of the provisions relating to the installation of renewable energy sources which will enter into force on 1 July 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law in part falls within the context of corrective proposals, resulting from a certain wrong attitude of the authors of laws, who do not want to listen to good advice, but arguments supported by experience and knowledge of things. In this case we also warned against the fact that the RES Act in the previous shape will be bad, will be bad for companies, will be bad for local governments. We've been pointing out the peripetity that's gonna happen. Then we were persuaded here that there were absolutely no threats. So? And it turns out that today, out of the same rules that we have criticised, you must withdraw. But you're doing it all wrong again. It is not only a constitutional issue that it is not lawful, except in some very specific cases, to apply the law backwards. The real effect of such a move is that you want to charge local governments with the cost of your mistake. At the committee meeting, in view of the rejection of Senator Kleina's amendment, which aimed at returning the state budget to companies wrongly collected since the beginning of 2018, we decided to propose as a minority motion an amendment suggested by the Legislative Office aimed at ensuring that the entire law was in force from 1 January 2019. The result would be that, when there was a litigation, the court would decide who was right in a dispute between local government and companies about the amount of tax for this current year, and in most cases it would be so that not of its own motion and not all local authorities would be forced to return this difference. Because I don't doubt that after this recipe is introduced, all companies will claim this surplus and this will mean a burden on the local government. The Minister keyed here, said that this was an overpayment, which is absolutely wrong, because the fee or tax levied legally in the amount determined by the municipality is not any overpayment. Because compared to what? For the findings of the law which was subsequently adopted and has retroactive effect? Well, it's just an amazing design. He tried to explain this issue to the EU's external rules. Let us mercifully ignore this with silence. The truth is, this recipe doesn't stand up for itself. I appeal to you: let us not do this, let us not charge local governments with the costs of defective laws, and especially everyone. Where there has been any irregularities, let the court decide. If there is no need, then let us not extend this provision to all local governments. I do not know how you do, but I from these municipalities, which are often poor and in which almost that the basis of the budget or its huge part is the tax on windmill property, I have received a lot of requests to either make an amendment that you propose to Senator Klein and which is undoubtedly the best, or to support our minority request. I would very much ask that we not return to this contested law again in a moment, and rightly so, as an absolutely defective and non-constitutional provision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. High Izbo, I would like to welcome a parliamentary delegation from Iran to the Senate. Iranian Parliamentaries... [[Applause]] Iranian Parliamentaries visit Poland, as part of their cooperation so-called. parliamentary bilateral groups, at the invitation of the Polish-Iran Parliamentary Group. Welcome to the Polish Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the agenda. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome. Please indicate which of the senators of the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u6	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for Senator Stanisławek about the case that Senator Augustine was talking about. I can confirm, because a whole lot of letters came to me from local government, especially from small rural communities, where there is a huge problem, because there were windmills in the past. Is it right or wrong, it's... Well, anyway, they're there. And now: what was the motivation of the Ministry, what was the discussion during the committee meeting about why this request should not be taken into account? And this, in my opinion, is clearly contrary to the principle that the law does not work backwards. This must be remembered and it must also be remembered that we are in the process of a local government campaign, which does not improve, so to speak, the overall situation as regards these issues, especially since, as I say, this concerns small rural communities. So what was the government's position on this matter, and why didn't the government agree? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u7	Thank you very much. Professor, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, let me be honest with you, I'd rather have the Minister answer that question. [[Very clever.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u9	Mr. Senator, we will redirect this question to the Minister. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, is with us, and I am sure he will answer that question. Thank you very much. [[I'm the one with the other...]] Yes? [[But maybe it's in the second round.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u10	In that case, Senator, please tell me whether the joint committee meeting has been interrupted because of this issue. As far as I know, it had two stages. What did it look like? If the senator wanted to tell us about it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u11	Mr. Senator, well, honestly... I'm not gonna answer because I don't know the scene... [[Applause]] ...why we move committee meetings sometimes. I can answer the question in general. The position of ministers is ambiguous. We had a meeting with the Minister of the Environment, who said, according to his knowledge... that he doesn't know the municipalities that have already taken money from real estate of this kind. The position of the Ministry of Energy is a little bit different, if they even downloaded it, they can count it as an advance and settle it. That, I'd say, in the next real estate tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u13	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to ask Senator Mieczysław Augustine a question. I hope he can hear me... [[Talking in the O.R.]] He hears. I'm glad. The question in a similar to that of Senator Jackowski. Mr. Senator, the amendment proposed by the minority relieves local government units from this mechanism... It's about running the law backwards. That's one thing. Or did the government present, during the work of the committee, what measures might not possibly affect local government units? How does this regulation burden local government units? Was such a discussion on the basis of hard facts carried out, or did the Minister responsible for Energy present such data to you during the work of the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u14	I confirm what Mr Stanisławek said, that here the position of the resorts was ambiguous. On the one hand, it was claimed that there was no problem, because almost no municipality took it, that they were collecting advances, and on the other hand, when we were talking about Senator Kleina's amendment, it was said that it would cost the budget. Well, either way. Right? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Either it would cost or it wouldn't cost. Either that's the problem or it's not. If that is not a problem, Minister, please support our amendment. And no problem, I'd say. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, because it's illogical. It must be said that the work in the Committee on the Economy has been done, as always, fairly. A lot of amendments were tabled by the senators, Senator Pekkis, for example, and the Legislative Office also submitted proposals. There were so many that the meeting had to be divided into two stages. Well, in the end, when we were hoping that a lot of good points would be taken into account, the ministry stiffened its position and, in fact, all the amendments blew back to the original form that the Ministry had submitted to the committee. Once again, I call for a consequence. If this is not a problem, if the scale is small, why follow the wrong path? Let's do this the right way. I don't think there's gonna be any trouble. The Minister, of course, was talking about why we need to hurry. It wouldn't be right if you didn't mention it. It's about the auctions. Here we repair the error of the previous law also in this regard. The point is that they should take place as soon as possible, but it really should not be done at the expense of such concessions to legal principles, at the expense of putting local governments at risk. If that's what it takes... If for one bill the Sejm could come and gather, then he could do it for another. We can't really agree to be just any law that even legislators make in a very bad light.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u15	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask, Senator? You're welcome. Briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u16	I have a specific question, Senator. So the minister didn't give you any money? [[No, no.]] He did not give amounts, but he knows that the provision will be detrimental to the state budget. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u17	It would be negative from the point of view of the state budget, but according to the Ministry it would not be a big problem for local governments, because As a long-term self-government officer, I absolutely disagree with that. This could be considered an advance. I am very firm that this cannot be done. That can't be done. This path is definitely out. There was a saying that it could be spread out into instalments and so on. It was said that the scale was small. If it's small, why do we do it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Grażyna Sztark a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u19	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for both Senators rapporteurs. I have here data from the municipality near my town, from the municipality of Karlino. I would start by asking why there was such a short consultation period in such an important matter, from 16 June 2017 to 14 July 2017. I'm talking about money and taxes all the time, because the municipalities have to re-orient their expenses, and that's not possible. The Minister said it could be paid in installments. I don't know... The tax for this municipality is 6 million 300 thousand. And now it seems that she would have to pay back every month at PLN 525,000. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be the fall of the commune. Another question. The budget was planned at the beginning of the year. The city council adopted a resolution on the budget and planned expenditure. And what's that advice supposed to do in the middle of the year? It'll be even later than mid-financial year to change that? It's impossible. We're gonna bankrupt him. Have you possibly asked the Minister of Energy or the Minister of Finance whether it is possible to compensate these municipalities for the loss of budget money?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. I suggest you ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj another question, and we ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u21	I have a question for the professor, Senator Stanisławek. Mr. Senator, Professor, maybe it's an impression from the presentation that the Professor's report... Do you have a conviction as a committee? I'm sure you've had a discussion about the financial interpretation that undoing the burden, regulating it with some kind of overpayment... Do you, according to you, have an opinion? Is it legal or not? That's one thing. Second. Did you have any analysis and suggestions from local government? There is an association of wind-friendly municipalities. I have an opinion that clearly speaks about the financial risk associated with the implementation of the law as proposed by the government. Have you even discussed this? Was this discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u22	You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u23	Thank you very much. We have different opinions here. I agree with the senator that there are opinions of this kind. The discussions were pretty intense. The defence of the Ministry is the EU Directive. We are all aware that the basic legal principle is that the law should not act backwards. I would very much ask the senators to address such questions to the ministry rather than to the committee because the committee considered these laws more legally. We wanted to help develop renewable energy sources, not stop this development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u24	Thank you very much. [[It was a question for both of us, so...]] [[Senator Shark addressed this question only to...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa. Senator Shark addressed both senators as a question. [[Yes. And I'd like to answer that.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u25	Mrs. Senator, actually... As you can see, among the senators is the awareness that many municipalities in the middle of the financial year, if income from real estate tax, from windmills were a large part of their budgets, will find themselves in a difficult position. Well, unfortunately, our arguments didn't work out. We are aware that this is a question of commitments made, sometimes already drawn up invitations to tender, for which measures must be found. They are provided, in accordance with the applicable law, as an influence due. Now it turns out that we are amending the law retroactively and that those measures will be deemed to have been unduly taken. This is a complicated legal issue at all. I suppose the local governments will go to court with the government in this case, because it's just not allowed to do things like that. But that doesn't change the fact that local governments I am not saying that many, but some will surely be in a very difficult situation overnight. And that's why our amendment. However, I would stress that it would be much better for Senator Kleina to accept the amendment. Since the scale is small, since the Minister claims that it would be good if this law had been in force since 1 January 2018, just pay for it and the matter will be clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u27	Mr. Senator, if you'd care to approach the platform... I have a few questions for you. I also have a request that I may ask these questions in one time. If not, please put me on the list. Question one. You are very critical here about both the bill and the course of the meeting at which I was also on both parts of it. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Were any of the representatives of renewable energy generators present in the Chamber opposed to the Act? Anyone? 'Cause I was at the meeting, and I'm gonna admit, honestly, I got the impression that everyone was praising the bill. Was anyone against it? [[The bill is generally good, but...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, wait a minute, I have a question for the senator. He's the rapporteur, so maybe he'll answer. Don't help out like that... [[Mr. Senator, I'm in no way...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u28	Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[...I didn't criticize...]] Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. I'd like Senator Władysław Komarnicki to ask a question. [[Excuse me.]] And then I'll ask for answers. That's gonna be a bunch of questions. [[I'm here to see the Senator of the rapporteur, if you don't mind...]] Most of them? [[Yeah, most of them.]] Ask me a question. In a moment, the senator will step into the podium and answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u29	My first question. Mr. Senator, what specific experts have prepared this bill? I ask you to name them so that we know by discussing who the author is. Because it's very important. Second question. Were there consultations with the energy sector on this law, and if so, what and when? And my third question. Who is the author of amendment 9 adopted by the Sejm requiring a final environmental decision in the auction pre-qualification procedure and what is the purpose of this amendment in the context of Article. The 75th RES Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u30	Thank you very much. Those were questions for Senator Stanisławek. Now I'm going to ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to answer Senator Pekkis' question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u31	I criticised the legislative process and the previous wording of the law. I pointed out that this law removes faults that were obvious from the beginning, on which we emphasized the existence of the previous amendment, but I did not criticize these changes because they were going in the right direction. That's what manufacturers think. Moreover, I raised an argument that the Ministry also raised. Why do I want this bill to be passed as soon as possible? It is precisely because of the expectations of manufacturers and the issue of carrying out these auctions. Nobody underestimates it, it's an important thing. [[...Critical or not? Because that was the question.]] No. Yeah, I told you no one was criticizing. I repeat, no one criticized. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No. You asked if they were criticizing, so I answer, no one criticized.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u32	Quiet, please. [[You have to listen.]] Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek. There you go. [[Everyone praised, just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u33	Excuse me, Miss Marshal, but I've just come to see Senator Gawada. 'Cause at the same time, there's a meeting with the Iranian MPs. And I asked him to cover for us downstairs. Could the senator repeat that question? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u34	I would like to repeat with great pleasure, because I know, Senator, what a difficult role you are now as rapporteur. My first question is, what kind of experts specifically prepared this? I'm asking you to name them if that's possible, if that's not a secret. My second question was: were there consultations with the energy sector on this issue, on this law? And if so, what and when? And my third question: who is the author of amendment 9 adopted by the Sejm, which requires a final environmental decision to be held in the pre-qualification procedure for auctions, and what is the purpose of this amendment in the context of Article. The 75th RES Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u35	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u36	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'll take the first question. The Polish Chamber of Commerce, the town and municipality of Sztum, the municipality of Rymanów, Świecie nad Osa, Nowy Dwór Gdański, the municipality of Wróblew... [[There are 2,000 478 municipalities, Mr. Senator.]] I'm telling you where the consultation was from, where the letters came from. And there's... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Voice from the hall: Association of Renewable Energy Friendly Municipalities.]] Well, yes, sir. So that such letters from entities that deal with renewable energy sources have been received. And as for Amendment 9, adopted in the Sejm, I have no knowledge of this. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! I have a question for Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. And right away, in order not to bring Senator Pekkis into any confusion, I'm going to say that I'm a RES supporter, but I'm probably going to be opposed to this bill because I can't accept that the constitution is being violated on this occasion. I have a question for the senator about the operation of the law backwards. Since the government admitted that it had made a mistake in the previous law, and considered that it was necessary to pay the taxpayers the fees charged by the local governments, and we know that this puts these local governments in a very bad situation, has there been any suggestion that the government should take over the consequences of this mistake and simply give the money back to those who wrongly paid it? And if such a suggestion arose, what was the reaction of a government representative to such a suggestion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u39	Yeah, part of it. In this direction, so that the financial consequences of returning to earlier rates of property tax, earlier lower rates of real estate tax for windmills, were borne by the government, the amendment of Senator Kleina was aimed at, and in this sense was the subject of the committee's consideration, but this was not recognised in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u41	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for Senator Augustine. You mentioned that part of the discussion at the joint committee meeting was that it was not big money. Have there been any specific amounts that could give us an idea of what kind of money we're talking about? Why would I ask that? Because in the case of 2 municipalities in my constituency, Stupsk and Kuczbork, it is in northern Mazowsze, municipalities with budgets of about PLN 22 million per year, this reimbursement will cost 7%. So imagine 7%. the budget during the financial year. How many such municipalities are there in Poland, I find it difficult to say. Senator Stanisławek mentioned these municipalities, no, he did not mention these two municipalities. I also sent letters from my constituency to the Environment Committee, among others. of these 2 municipalities, Stupsk and Kuczbork. I have a question about whether or not we're talking about what kind of money we're talking about. I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u42	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u43	Unfortunately, Mr. Senator, we didn't have any actual numbers, we didn't have any calculations, we didn't get them. We don't know what the scale is. The Ministry claims that small, self-governments on the contrary, and as it really is, it is difficult to say. Therefore, I believe that we should act with due care, caution, in order not to lead to a crisis in the finances of local governments, or on the path indicated by Senator Kleina's amendment, or by adopting a minority amendment suggested by the Legislative Office as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'd like to ask a question similar to Senator Jackowski's question, a question about money, and I'm sending it to you. [[Unfortunately, we don't have...]] You said it was big money, and you can't even tell me what scale it is. Then where did you get these calculations?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u46	I never said it was big or small money. I said that the ministry claims that this is small money, and I used the argument that if the ministry thinks it's small money, then what are we arguing about? Let us accept the proposed amendment, let us not risk it, because if local governments are right and it is so that for them, I stress, for local governments... It may not be much money for the budget, but in a letter sent to me, also to other senators, local governments indicate that for them it is very big money, very heavy burden. Then let's accept the minority's request or I'm even better. Senator Kleina's amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm here to see the Senator... [[Most of them.]] ...most of them. Yes, of course. The Act amends the definition of wind power plants, separates the construction part and the technical part. Whether there were any comparisons at the committee meeting, or whether this power plant was being compiled, e.g. with a water power plant? Shouldn't we also separate the building and technical parts from the hydropower plant? Isn't that a level playing field right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we haven't talked about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u52	Two more short questions for Senator Augustine. I'm asking you kindly for answers, if you don't mind. Mr. Senator, how many amendments by Mr. Grzegorz Pekkis have you voted on? That's the first question. I will give you a hint: none of the many amendments that you have allegedly voted on. And question two. This bill, as you say, is burdened with such a big, fat constitutional error. Did you vote for her or against her?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u53	As I recall, I voted against this bill because of the flaws she was carrying with her. And now I would be willing to vote in favour, but provided that one of the two solutions is adopted that will secure the situation of local governments. As for the amendments of Senator Pekkis, there was no vote on them because Senator Pekkis withdrew these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u54	Thank you. Are there any questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? No. Thank you very much. [[I...]] [[Władysław Komarnicki still has a question.]] You still want to ask the senator a question, don't you? [[Yeah, one more question.]] Which of your rapporteurs? [[To the rapporteur of the majority.]] Professor Stanisławek, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. My question is justified in substance. We have talked many times at the meetings of our committee, which I am a member of, about these changes. In 2018, due to the large auction, existing permits for the construction of wind power plants will have to be rapidly changed immediately after the entry into force of the Act, because models or parameters of turbines are defined there, especially in terms of installed capacity, which, due to the rapid technological development of the land-based wind energy sector, are no longer produced, are extremely difficult to access on the market or are inefficient, and in place are produced installations with higher electrical power, more efficient and more friendly environments due to lower acoustic emissions. The implementation of certain construction permits using the types of turbines referred to therein will therefore be de facto impossible or will mean that we will build a technical museum for taxpayers' money. Is there a chance, Senator rapporteur, to change that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u56	Senator Florek would like to ask you another question? Which senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u57	Well, now that the senator's here, then... [[There you go.]] ...maybe you're the only senator I'll ask. Mr. Senator, I recall our discussion here in the Senate about this taxation. I compared it myself to the taxation of the power plant. And we talked about the fact that the development of wind energy will be hindered if these laws enter into force. And I have a question: did you have any information at the committee meeting about what it all looks like after the introduction of this tax? Well, because it's known that if the development is bigger, then taxes affect the municipalities, and if we're dealing with a halt to development, that means that these taxes for the municipalities will be less. Enough of that, the change that was obvious and which will be introduced... Yeah, and those phrases right now. So here's the question: has there been any information at the committee on the development of wind energy due to the introduction of this previous law? What does it look like right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u58	Thank you very much. Will there be any further questions, ladies and gentlemen? No. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u59	Thank you very much. The questions are very interesting and detailed, and I thank you very much for these questions, because even the questions broaden our knowledge. Not all can be answered because there was no such debate at the committee meeting. But I would like to make it clear that we are all in favour of the development of renewable energy sources and, according to the Minister's assurances, this law allows us to develop wind energy. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u60	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Professor. I would like to thank both the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. As I said, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Energy, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I thank you for the committee's discussion, and for this discussion in the courtroom. I think if I wasn't at the committee meeting, I'd think the committee was stormy, dramatic and harsh, and I have to say, And I want to thank you very much for that. That it was firm, assertive and substantive. I think that this should be the debate on important projects, and as a representative of the government, I would like to stress this very strongly, and to all those present at the 2 meetings of the committee, because there was indeed a break in the work, to thank. The discussion was really very substantive, and there were not so many amendments in my mind, 12 proposed by the Legislative Bureau, and the other amendments, if I had counted correctly, were not more than 18. Indeed, it was more than one, two or five amendments, but we are generally aware of various laws where the legislative dispute is much deeper, and therefore I would not share the voices that there were many amendments, which create an atmosphere, that the law has deep shortcomings, legislative or substantive. As far as the law is concerned, I would like to say to you that we in the economic space in which RES appear, are finally beginning to order, to build legal foundations, the foundations of safeguards, legislative provisions, we are also building an instrumentarium, the tooling of institutions. And so, ladies and gentlemen, the economic RES in their business, in terms of entrepreneurship, business activity, have definitely preceded the legal regulations in Poland. And let's agree: that only in 2017, after how many years of operation of the investment in our space, we received notification for this act, it was not accidental. When did we get the notification? In December 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The predecessors passed or adopted a law in 2015 and I would not like to comment on it, but it did not create a friendly, logical framework, building a surveillance system, building a system of legal instrumentation, institutional for renewable energy sources. This law was also not accepted by the European Commission, which made it necessary for us to work very hard, to put in an intellectual, organisational effort. What was the organizational effort? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there have been questions about this to the Senators of the rapporteurs, so I would like to say that this is perhaps one of those laws that have been very well consulted. The consultation lasted over a year. I can't take credit for this because I didn't consult this bill in the Ministry, it was my predecessor, Minister Piotrowski, who made this effort, along with the employees of the Department of Renewable Energy. And to the question of who is the author of this bill, I answer: and it is precisely the gentlemen who came with me today, the director and his colleagues. And these are the names I'm submitting to the senator as the authors of this intellectual contribution to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the list, and this list is on the senate pages With information on what environments, what institutions, what entities were invited to negotiate... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to replace them. There are over 100 of them. It is difficult to find another legislation that we would consult with more than 100 institutions and organisations. This is the big organizational effort that has caused this law to be discussed for a very long time, because it had to be discussed for a very long time, because we, in fact, are chasing the entrepreneurial space related to renewable energy sources, specifically windmills. After all, many protests, many different reservations about functioning, and also irregularities... And, ladies and gentlemen, what you've been discussing so strongly And I would also like to thank you for your concern about the commune... Because it's not that the ministry is so easy to propose a record that can be troubling by controversy. And it's not, Mr. Senator... Thank you very much for these answers, but there was no mention of the size. [[It was...]] No, Senator, I don't want to argue, I'm referring to the report... Never once did the amount fall, never once did the ministry ask how much it would cost. But I'm not saying it's a mistake. I really thank you for this discussion on the committees. I'm only stressing one thing. The point is not to produce such, say, actress pressure, that suddenly we have a drama, that it's going to be amazing that something's gonna light up, it's gonna collapse. No, it won't, it won't. And I'll describe the phenomenon. Because it's important for us to be able to describe why certain records appear, what we're getting out of is what's important. It is not that yesterday the renewable energy started to appear in Poland, but it is already going on. We found something, and we need to sort it out. Ladies and gentlemen, as you recall, there was a parliamentary windmill project. And when he was born, where did he come from? Yeah, from the protests. As a matter of fact, there's no spatial plan in many towns. And it's been done a little bit, and I'll be honest with you, with a lot of momentum, kind of upside down, when it comes to the environments that lived there, among other things. farmers organised. This caused great social disputes. There was a windmill law that regulated certain issues, above all, to introduce supervision. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the legal process... There is also a very big challenge ahead of us to set up institutions. So it's about building surveillance, it's about the building oversight office, it's about making URE more involved. We need to get the Ministry of the Environment to come up with some records that would put some environmental opinions in order. Mr. Senator asked about them. That have expired in the meantime. We need to be able to introduce something, or we need to supplement something, or we need to introduce something new that needs to be prepared to keep it up to date. We have, ladies and gentlemen, problems in local governments with spatial plans. In general, let's just say it. The residents do not necessarily know that the windmill will suddenly rise because they are not fully informed. We also have information, taken from the conversations, about the adverts on the bulletin boards in such places. And now, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in 2016? The Windmill Act was adopted, the intention of which was to And that's the essence of the thing. It was to introduce a division of windmills and to establish that the turbine is a building element with wings. But not in the tax interpretation That's the key. The intention of the legislator was that there should be building surveillance so that we could talk about the construction disaster so that we could talk about drawing consequences in the context of building surveillance. It was very right to ask the senators about the water turbine. Yeah, that's where the division is, and the hydro turbine isn't taxed in the hydropower system. So is the biogas plant. The engine is not taxed. The same one, ladies and gentlemen, is a coincidence when it comes to the so-called. machinery, equipment in mining, downstairs. There the municipalities also wanted to collect taxes for the so-called. properties that are in the excavations. And what is the case law here? That it's not a property to tax, because it's a machine, a device that can't be treated like that. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone in the municipalities read into the intention of the legislator, he could not draw such a conclusion that, say, we would jump on the turbine and tax it in accordance with the Tax Act, because we did not change the Tax Act, we did not enter the turbine into the tax. [[The warlords challenged the bill.]] The question arises as to what was the argument that some municipalities... Because it wasn't common, it's not like it's all communes. Mr. Chairman asked, he said we have so many municipalities... Yeah, that's right. But why didn't they all tax those turbines, just some of them? And why do we now have the ones that misinterpreted the bill, take... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But why are you laughing? Is that so funny? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] If I'm being ridiculous, I'm happy because laughter is part of unplugging certain emotions. It is also important in the debate that we have a distance to what we say. Then it's softer... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The Minister is better than the Prime Minister...]] [[But the minister is better than the Prime Minister...]] [[Easy, easy.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I were you after the 2015 Act, I wouldn't laugh. I'd say "I'm sorry," if we were to be honest. [[Applause]] And please don't do... Well, I might have arguments that might not appeal. I haven't used them so far because I want to talk about the bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because the subject is important. The subject is important. Ladies and gentlemen, this subject is important. [[Voice from the room: Easy, easy.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The fact that I am right indicates that you are jamming me, just as Free Europe was once jammed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We remember that, the truth was jammed. By passing ad rem, I would like to say yes. If it were indeed clear, there would be no appeal against this tax by traders. Today, this is to be decided by the NSA in its full seven-person squad. If it were so obvious, what you're talking about wouldn't be the dispute. And so now: I do not want to do and invoke the European Commission, because it would be unelegant, but if the European Commission has raised this issue, the issue of the disorder of many spheres, and not just this one, it means that there is something to be done. The Commission suggested that we make a decision to put this in order from 1 January 2018, giving us a notification in December of the committee meeting showing where it is recorded And it came from something. This was not due to the fact that the Commission And especially the Senators of the Platform, I'm sure you know that. I don't want to... Well, I don't think she wants to break the law in Poland. Yeah, he suggests it all the time. And that's our commitment. We are facing this situation: either the entrepreneurs will complain to the municipalities about an undue tax charged, and they will have the right to do so, it has already happened... Entrepreneurs, I stress: entrepreneurs. And some of the municipalities decided to reduce their future share of the instalments. If the communes were right, then why do some municipalities do it? After all, we could recognize that they are harming our own, even before the elections. So there's something going on. The subject is dragonflies, and I'm not saying that when you called it, you shouldn't talk about it, but I think the problem is deeper, it's not trivial or zero-one. That's why we're in June... Well, there was also a question when it was discussed with the municipalities. Well, last year, check it out: June, July, August. At the time of the construction of the 2018 budget, we said that we were in the middle of negotiations and we will propose that this provision enter into force on 1 January 2018. Please, countries, when we essentially create better tax conditions for taxpayers, and that is the case for entrepreneurs, then, notice, this is acceptable even during the year. Otherwise, if we had increased taxes on businesses since 1 January, then it would have been a violation of constitutional records. However, our legal act we have created today some possibility of a gentle passage for those municipalities that may lose in court. Namely, if in 2018 They're on the budget... And when can we just increase the budget, the spending in the municipalities? That's when we give extra tasks. And there have been additional tasks in the budget of the municipalities? No, they didn't increase their own tasks in the municipalities, so how can you say that the state budget is to bear the consequences? Each party, entrepreneur, municipality, has the right to a legal dispute and so let's treat it. There was a phenomenon that some municipalities recognized differently than others, even though we immediately gave an interpretation of the parliamentary project, we stated what the intention was. It was considered that entrepreneurs would still be burdened. Let's not argue, it's happened, now we have to face it. I think that this is actually a matter, it is a problem. But I would also like to count on understanding that the ministry, the government, is not the one who is easily proposing this solution. However, if we introduce this since 2019 and litigation is 2-year-old, it may generally turn out that the municipalities will return in 2 years' time. Then there will be a big problem and shouting in the new term, when there may be new glazers who will be responsible for the decisions of their predecessors. I would also like to say that at the committee meeting... Well, it's been so mild, like I'm speaking literaryly... No, I spoke quite precisely, reading articles related to the Constitution, reading sentences, I applied the legal language directly at the committee meeting to be precise to respect the scale of the problem and respect the senators and the senator who asked about this issue. So I don't want you to try to say that the ministry, by my person represented, has made no effort to clarify this issue. And as for the speed of this bill, I am very grateful to you for that. I think I'm a representative not only of the Ministry, but also of the environment, which is related to renewable energy sources. This law has been expected since last year, and even, it can be said, since the beginning of last year, only that we had a problem with the fact that no notification was made in 2015 and that we had to reconstruct this law, consult it and set everything up in the European Commission. It was only after we received the notification that we were able to re-examine certain details and introduce this law to the deliberations. And that's why we're discussing it today. And since there wasn't one last year auctions They were just, I'd say, such attempts at auction is an expectation to finally launch these auctions. And notice what we're doing in this bill. We're ordering, we're building a base so we can start this in July. And I also want to say that this is a commitment, but also a challenge and a ministry, and the Sejm, and the Senate, because we have to build on the basis of this bill a response to something that reality already brings us. There are new technologies, new phenomena, and it needs to be built up in institutions, as I have already mentioned. The URE came out of technical supervision and the Ministry of the Environment must be involved, and not only it. The infrastructure with spatial plans must also be operational here. Why? So that by the end of the year we can try to build up a floor to this foundation, so that the RES system can be legalized, but also organisationally, so that we can set up a cesarean: these entrepreneurs are working properly, rightly, and unfortunately they go beyond the legal scope and beyond the scope of real business activity. And we also need to put the RES system into the space of the energy mix, which is what we're doing. And that's why we define the turbine and the wings. In this bill we arrange it, we define how construction surveillance is to be defined, how these issues related to construction law are interpreted by us. It's already in that bill. That bill was a message, and she wasn't about RES, she was a windmill. The 2015 one is the only RES law that has ever been adopted in Polish law and yet... Well, period. This was not accepted by the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is really important and I would like to thank all the hundreds of people who have been at the table with us for the effort that has been put into it for over a year. I thank the parliamentarians and you for discussing this. Like I said. And now I'm gonna say it again. Some of the amendments that you proposed to the legislator, counselor, and Senator Pekkis... There was also the voice of a man representing a certain environment, a voice about a biogas plant. I have proposed that because these are not amendments that would change the shape of this law very much. But still important, valuable to introduce them into consultative talks immediately after the adoption of this law, so that in autumn, October, November, those amendments which had already passed in April, May, June, and also now, will be included in the amendment. And I'm grateful for that attitude, too. We already have material that has to appear in the bill, but we do not block fundamental issues, start the auction process, and at the same time we do not block the definition and ordering of this law regarding renewable energy sources. And that's what I wanted to give you in this introductory vote. This law is so important, so important, because it, on the one hand, cleans these matters up and on the other, finally meets the expectations of the European Commission, finally, for the first time. And see how long windmills and other renewable sources operate in the Polish economic space. For the first time, we have a law that is in line with Brussels and to which there are no reservations, even as regards the date of 1 January 2018. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u62	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this point in the draft agenda. The first question you ask is Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, at the committee meeting we discussed a lot and substantively. I think there was no dispute about the way this discussion was conducted. We have generally praised the provisions of this law, because some really are re-solving problems and you are withdrawing from some countries. I don't want to argue about this here, because this is not the place and the moment for polemics, including your speech. But we've actually paid attention. And it was the only problem in a good case that divides us into the issue of real estate tax charged by the municipalities. Here the Minister is not entirely correct in his speech, because, as you know perfectly well, by 2016, i.e. before the amendment came into force, the municipalities accounted for just so simply, i.e. it was a building tax, without a turbine. Right? So that's how the tax was accounted for. It's just an amendment to the bill that you've introduced... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] ...has led to the fact that this tax has begun to be charged as it is charged today. I will make this point clear in plenary, so that it is clear in this matter and that some people do not feel misled, because tax matters are quite important and can't go so lightly in this case. And my question is: what is it actually... Now it's a financial problem. Because it wasn't just said about this case. So what is the amount of this tax charged by the municipalities? And then there's the second line. How much of this tax has been introduced? It's a de facto half. 'Cause it's in six months until the end of January. Which municipalities have taken and which they would have to return to the local authorities in the light of the proposal for a provision that you are introducing. And one last question about it. There's a Sejm meeting next week, too. So we could make amendments today, including those that are not controversial, because in a week's time the Sejm could accept them. Right? And here, however, you are seeking to adopt this law without amendments, which means you are exposing yourselves to conflicts that are not necessary at all. You could unload them, it seems, in a rather simple way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u64	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u65	As far as this tax issue is concerned, we are presenting the position I mentioned. And the senator was right to notice that. That's right, the mast... We're back to taxing the mast again. [[But please admit that after this 2016 amendment, the whole tax philosophy has changed. It was...]] No, Mr. Senator. [[Well, yes, sir.]] No, because we didn't bring it into... [[Mr. Senator...]] No, because there were no changes to the tax bill. This is the essence of things. [[It wasn't us...]] [[This isn't a discussion.]] And that's why... Mr. Senator, listen to me. I am not saying that there is no qualitative dispute, but let's ask ourselves: if it was so obvious, then why didn't all the municipalities do it, just some? [[Most of them. At least I don't...]] [[Mr. Senator, the polemics later. Write down...]] If it was obvious, then why? Tell me about it. Entrepreneurs have made claims to municipalities? We're-- I mean, we're not. In the parliamentary project, due to some negative windmill phenomena, a distance was introduced, a turbine and wings were defined, so that there would be supervision at the time of the construction disaster. It was all about controlling what was at the top. After all, we had no right to do anything until then, because it was not under any supervision. And how were the servants to prepare for this when we had no instruments? The intention of the parliamentary law was to introduce this instrument, not the tax instrument. Therefore, entrepreneurs agreed to this provision, that they take responsibility for the safety of the operation of windmills, which, after all, already function on the Polish market, without technical control. And all of a sudden, somebody came up with a phenomenal idea: if we have a building element upstairs, let's tax it extra. And that's where the phenomenon came from. It's the same thing in the mines when it comes to machines... [[These are different things.]] They're not. [[Different.]] Water turbine's the same. Well, this is where the senator asked the right question... The water turbine isn't taxed either, and it's a turbine. Notice that we suddenly want to breach the system for one phenomenon, because someone came up with an idea so that they could suddenly increase their revenue. I understand that you can look for extra revenue, but then you take risks. So is the budget... Just as the government takes risks in connection with certain decisions, so they are taken by the governor or the mayor. We live in a market economy and when there are disputes, it is settled by the courts. Well, let's notice that we have a dispute here. And I know it's important to lean on the local communities, but, I'm sorry, it's why, at this point, those who didn't introduce this tax... So what are we supposed to do with them? You want to return only to those who were clever In quotes. Mr. Senator, what about those who haven't introduced this tax? [[Then tell me how many there are.]] But there's no amendment. There's no amendment that says, "Oh, yeah, they didn't submit to you and interpret... the bill's instinct... So what are we supposed to do now? Give them back instead of entrepreneurs? Notice that it is not as simple as you think. [[It's not easy.]] I'm not saying that someone behaved that way in bad faith. But we have a problem. That's why we put it all in order in this bill. And I do not want to say that you do not express concern, but I would also like you not to accuse us of pettyness or lack of imagination. Because if we were on both sides, maybe we'd talk the same way, only one would say this and the other would say this. I respect that other voice, but I also want you to respect... Because I'm trying to show you exactly what we have to face. As I say, I do not wish to invoke Brussels, but since these arguments have been divided also there, then something is going on, ladies and gentlemen. And of course if we did... Because someone will say: January 1, 2017. We could have. Then automatically the entrepreneurs would have to us... there would be a dispute. When we gave the information last year, in June, July, we had to stop taxing in 2018. And some, knowing that such a bill will come in, such a provision... Because we in consultation informed about this, even many municipalities came to us, ladies and gentlemen, and they got an interpretation of the rules. And they pulled out. They even sat down with businessmen to talk to. Taxation was reduced, spread over time, and this year this additional tax was no longer added. And now imagine that we'll pay for the wind turbine. And what are the water turbines supposed to tell you? And what do you want to know about the engines in the biogas plants? [[No, no, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] But I'm sorry... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...they're constructions, too. These are also buildings under construction law. Just, let's make a deal, not included in the tax bill. And someone was smart enough to find a gap between the industry law and the tax bill. If we weren't really right here, the Ministry of Finance wouldn't have let it go. On the contrary, there was a recommendation to settle this issue in this dimension. And I understand that I may not be able to convince you, but I would ask you to respect... And as far as we're concerned, we don't know for today. We've been talking to the municipalities, and believe me... When did the pressure start? Well, that's when the bill started to be processed. After all, we put the project on the ministerial pages much earlier, as it went to the government. We were still negotiating some records with windmill associations at the last moment in order to discuss some important issues for them, and we also discussed these records with URE. And why didn't we allow these additional amendments? Not because we want to... not because we have 100%. Right. Only that since more than 100 representatives of different organizations thought it was a consensus, and then they suggested that we already have such a phenomenon, such a phenomenon... And now if I accept the amendment of this organization, why should I not accept the amendment of that organization? And if I accept this and this amendment, I'm gonna have to change the records. But that's how we would never have introduced this bill. To be honest, it was a decision when I was entrusted with this bill... It was a little connected to my decision. I felt that if there were no amendments in the legislative procedure that would actually fix some gap that we had not noticed, I would ask everyone to introduce it in a new law, which... we will start consultations as soon as this law is passed. Someone might say, "Well, Lord, how do you proceed?" Well, if someone knows the essence of renewable energy sources, they know it's right, because here we have a whole range of phenomena. Not only windmills but also biogas plants and wind power plants Which we need to start to figure out. I think we should meet in November, too. And this will be another step so that we can work out this system in Poland well in the regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u66	You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question of a rather general nature: is the revision of this law concerning the issues raised here at the same time a step towards a change in energy policy, that is to say, to highlight the role of renewable energy sources in the future at the expense of old traditional coal-based energy? And will this stop the construction of a power plant in Ostrołęka and possibly the construction of a nuclear power plant? Looking at what's going on. Even beyond our western border, where Germany will close all nuclear power plants in the next five years and where the cost of renewable energy is already lower than the cost of nuclear energy, I ask whether this is also a step this way. That's one thing. Secondly, what losses did the State budget have to bear in order to halt the development of wind energy by the RES Act of 2016? Because we know very well that the investments in this area have been hindered and that they are also loss of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u68	And, Minister, we'll ask you another question. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I might, in order to clarify the area we are discussing, have a minister, after listening to this very substantive and interesting debate, such a question: Minister, whether the government has an orientation, on how many municipalities in Poland Are there windmills on these over 2,000 800? And how many of these are used by this Let's call it what the Minister said. Clever way of taxing, and how much does it not apply? Maybe that would allow us to take a global look at this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u70	Senator Shark, please. Then there'll be three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will continue the statement or question of Senator Jackowski, because I come from such a constituency by the sea, where, as you know, there are just a lot of windmills. And the municipalities I'm talking about have already collected these taxes, and it's at a high rate of 40%. the total budget. Minister, that's why I'm concerned, and that's why I'm asking. Of course, one can say that they did so, knowing exactly what the consequences would be. But no. And tell me if the government predicted... Because yesterday it was made clear at the committee meeting, among other things. Colleagues That the municipalities didn't... or didn't influence the municipality's account with real estate taxes on entrepreneurs. And I'm telling you, Minister, they're in. And now what about these municipalities? They are not in a position to reduce their costs and pay, as you suggest, capitalised for this money. And it's just that they're threatened by bankruptcy or commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u72	Minister, please respond to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u73	As for the first question, this is the relation: energy mix, coal and RES. The essence of this law, one of the elements, is among others. that we be able to meet the conditions that we have to meet by 2021 and2022, as regards the percentage parameters for the share of renewable energy in our system. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing. We often put it this way: conventional energy versus renewable energy. But I think it's a good time after that. 'Cause we're having a COP session at our house to see what's going on with our neighbor. Just because our neighbors shut down the mines doesn't mean they don't buy coal, and they don't use it, so they're CO2 issuers, and they're not just, and they're definitely more than we are. For RES to function in the system, there must be conventional energy. This is a partnership. And I think it's very important. And thank you very much for your question about this. Because we often try to show it like this: either coal plants or RES. And, ladies and gentlemen, let's think: is it always blowing in Poland? [[Voice from the room: But...]] But listen to me. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have research. It actually blows the most by the sea, but not always. There's a great wind on the Baltic, and we've got a plan for offshore... [[And in the mountains.]] Still on Podhale, it's true, yes. But there are areas to say, with such a light breeze. And now, ladies and gentlemen, look what's happening. We have a growing wealth of residents. And rightly so, thank God. And what happens in the summer? Air conditioners, other types of home appliances, all of this makes us, ladies and gentlemen, even need to think about when to do renovations now, because we cannot turn off energy in summer, because it is more necessary than in winter. [[But there's sunshine.]] But it doesn't always shine. Well, folks, we live in Poland and we see that there are clouds. Well, for God's sake... Renewable energy must be wider than just the wind and the sun, because we are neither Greece nor Spain. And they have other phenomena. And, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when there's no wind, when there's no sun, someone has to give that energy so that there's no downtime. And that's either gas or coal or nuclear power. We are talking about the system, the mix and this is crucial for Poland. It can't just be carbon energy, it can't just be nuclear, it can't just be gas energy, and it can be just renewable energy. Even if the Union did not tell us to do so, it is pragmatics, the right state of Poland, energy security, our parameters and what we found after our predecessors, that we must And that's why we call it a mix. To do this so that we have a relatively smooth transition: if there is no wind, there is no renewable energy, we press conventional energy. That is why there is a power market that makes it possible to finance conventional energy today, which somehow gives space to this renewable energy. And I think this is the essence of the conversation with us in Poland to show that these two energies are connected. In Germany it comes out brilliantly: brown coal and renewable sources. If the Germans, who are practicing this, promote this symbiosis with brown coal, then we need to look at why it is so, and not pour out a baby with a bath in Poland and not cause RES to be something more important than coal, and coal from RES does not. Here's a symbiosis. Thank you, Mr. Senator, I really thank you for asking this, because there's not always an opportunity to talk about it. And among others. This bill... We often talk about coal, because this is a question of restructuring, and we are also talking about renewable sources in this context, that we have certain parameters to fulfil. But why are we tidying up renewable energy? We are ordering it so that there is also some predictability in investments in renewable energy, but not just wind and solar-related, because it is also about biogas plants, water power plants and more. So that's what I wanted to say, because I think it's very important to bring up the subject. As far as the communes are concerned, we don't, Mr. Senator, because we're gathering information... I'll admit that we don't have it, because the municipalities have signalled the scale of the problem to us in this recent period, and we have divergent information. And it's not important that we have information from one community, because we have to have a scale. Let me put it this way: we even talked today... Because we feel this problem, it's not that we don't notice it, it's just that we're also a little bit between the hammer and the hardwood, we're in the middle: if we support the municipalities, the entrepreneurs will stand for the storm, and if we just support them, the municipalities can object. That's why we tried to break it down. And the fact that it was divided in Brussels... I think this road is rational and logical. Hence we, having, I think, a very good relationship so far And I'm grateful for that too. With various organisations representing investors, we would like to propose certain authorities. We want to make sure that where taxes were actually collected, there is no ad hoc payment to be made in time, even for some years, and that we can count on future taxes on what has already been charged. The legislator is indeed right. In some municipalities this may be a big problem. It was signaled to us. Today we are trying to investigate this phenomenon because some municipalities have started talking outside of us. with entrepreneurs, regardless of us. There was something in April and in May suddenly changed. We need to figure out what the scale of this phenomenon is. Indeed, we wanted more to put the legal system in order, to build some tooling and not to leave this problem behind. We also wanted to invite entrepreneurs to negotiate in July. We would like them to respect this and not challenge it for 2017. That too, ladies and gentlemen, is important. We're thinking, so to speak, they gave us the year 2019. Notice that the action is two years old. Due to the fact that Krakow's trade fair stood for 2018, we want to appeal and convince that no claims for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, you must consider... And what happens if we give 2019 and the court decides that the municipalities were wrong? You don't assume that. [[The municipalities return the money if there's a verdict. It's a simple procedure...]] [[Mr. Senator!]] To answer the senator... [[It's simple.]] I'll answer the senator. If the court says so, the commune could fall. [[He's not gonna fall.]] But I'm just answering the senator who put it that way. I'm not saying she's bad, I'm just showing you the problem by referring to some of the things you've formulated. Because there's a problem. It's not like he's gone. Now it is wise and wise to predict what might happen in the future, and try to grasp it in some way. Because we would like to be good Santas today, and then suddenly I will hear: Minister, you are in charge and you could offer the right solutions. And that's why we're proposing them, arguing and respecting your concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u74	You're asking questions, Senator Wcissile.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u75	Minister, your complicated legal exegesis, which, in your opinion, is not a tax law, and which the municipalities have read as tax law, is merely one thing. It's about the fact that this law is kicked. It's just wrong. I use the word "exegeza" here, because exegesis is generally about holy texts, and tax law is sacred and cannot be read as tax and non-tax law at the same time. Who made this shit? Municipalities? I don't think so. If you are aware that a law has been produced here, which is a bubble and which can be read as tax law and as non-tax law... Who should be responsible for this? You're scaring me when you say the municipalities that were smart and collected the tax did the wrong thing? [[Mr. Senator, would you like to make a question?]] Minister, if I were the councillor of the commune and my governor would not charge the tax, and the governor of the neighboring commune would have taken it, I would have accused my uncle of mismanagement and I would have been right. [[There's still no question here, Senator.]] Please tell us who should be responsible for the wrong law, which is read by some as tax law and by others As a non-tax law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u76	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u77	Minister, a brief question about the problem of the dispute. I think we can all see that the issue of the entire bill is not controversial. This is a matter of taxation and the finances of the municipality. Minister, tell me one thing. If the courts decide that the right is on the side of the municipalities, will you declare that you will reimburse the municipalities for 2018 or not? An independent court, as you said, finds that the law is on the side of the commune. And then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u78	As Senator Klein's third. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the discussion, I will try to address your tax rulings. I think there's a mistake here that you're making. The law on the taxation of windmills, which was before the 2016 amendment, was probably not entirely clear, but it was considered clear and under these provisions the municipalities taxed windmills as we say here, i.e. only as part of this structure. The communes, of course, demanded earlier... They thought the whole windmill was a building, but in the courts, these cases were lost. After the 2016 amendment, the municipalities already charged tax according to these new legal provisions, and as traders appealed For example: the municipality of Kobylnica in Pomorskie Voivodeship It was the case that lost and had to pay the tax according to the new rules that have been in force since 2016. This is a commentary on the question... [[Question.]] And the question is: does the Ministry of Finance have full information and if it does not have for today, can it not in a short period of time, even within one day, due to the IT system relating to the budget of the municipalities which connects the municipalities with the Ministry of Finance, receive it On which municipalities collect taxes on windmill structures and which do not collect, etc.? We have been talking about this since the previous sitting. It seems that such very precise information can be obtained and can be given which municipalities collect tax today and which do not collect tax. [[Minister...]] That's one question. [[Oh, one more thing.]] And the second question, very precise and does not require a long comment, just a simple answer. This law offers some opportunities for the development of the windmill system at sea. She is indeed progressing in this respect against the law of 2015 and 2016. The Minister said in his speech that you had an idea. In addition to this provision, which is already in this Act As this program of windmills at sea develop. Could you give us a closer look? This law gives such opportunities, for example. The Polish Energy Group is making a commitment to large investments at sea. These laws seem to serve this purpose. How's that going to work?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u80	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u81	Maybe I'll start with the senator's question. As far as offshore is concerned, we as the Ministry of Energy today have this position: we would like to resolve the issue of nuclear power plants this year, because we already have some proposals on location It is no secret that we consider the northern parts of Poland And then we'd like to settle the offshore investment. The point is that we can flexibly and efficiently put energy from one investment to the other into the system. That's why we predicted this order for today. There are also talks... our energy actors, but not only, because, as we know, foreign entities are considering commitment... We're happy about that, too, because this interest will cause us to have no problem implementing it. As I say, this is the order we've prepared for today. Minister Tchórzewski mentioned this. Because we need in our system... We've already written it down for conventional energy, we've already written it down for gas. Bottom Oder. RES now we're tidying up. For all of this, we need to be able to capture an increase in energy demand that is greater than in previous years. We know what kind of power boilers are gonna come out of the system because they're not gonna meet certain parameters. And that's gonna have to be completed. In some areas, we've been trying to work out our energy mix... Inside, in the resort, we analyze the energy program, which includes it, because we would like it to be tense, so that this document also... [[But, Minister, I asked about the windmills at sea.]] I'll get right to it. The windmills at sea are expected to be part of the system, only in subsequent chords. And the next chord, after the RES, without offshore investment, because offshore is here... We create the conditions for bringing windmills to the sea, so that we can have some opportunities, not to discuss legal tools, but to start investment. So, yes, first the testicle, the decision on the testicle, the decision on the start of the project, and then the renewable one. That's our position for today. [[The order was changed...]] No, no, Mr. Senator. We as the Ministry haven't changed order, because we never... [[But...]] Mr. Senator, we're following the statements... [[I follow it very well.]] Mr. Senator, we can present our analysis of the experts' statements. Experts suggest we change the order. However, as I say, the position of the Ministry for today is as Mr Tchórzewski said recently. If the Minister's decision is different, I'm sure I'll announce it, but today we have this cycle of events. And the fact that there was actually a discussion in public space about how we should think about changing order is true. The senator is right, this discussion has begun, we are listening to it, but we have not changed our position on this issue yet, which does not mean that we are not open to arguments. So that I wanted to tell you what the facts are. For today. About the court order, Senator... Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the court is concerned, it is difficult at every stage... Well, I don't know anyone who would say ex cathedra is sure what the sentence will be. [[But there are judgments, there are.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Let's let the minister speak.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that if we had readability on this issue, believe us, it would really be easier for us to build legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, honestly, I've been trying really hard to tell you the story of the problem. Notice that we are between entrepreneurs and the municipality. We can't not see that there are two sides. I don't want to crawl around here and claim that one or the other uncle made a mistake, did something wrong. But notice that we have not changed the tax bill. About what we were talking about here, what you were talking about, the senator, that I'm scaring somebody... I'm not scaring anyone because I'm not about scaring them, I'm about solving a problem that's like a Gordian knot, like pulling teeth. It's not nice or nice, but it needs to be solved. Notice that I am not trying to construct rhetorical terms, but I am telling you honestly what our problem is and what we have to face. If we accept this decision on January 1, notice, this will be a challenge. And we also want to get involved here organisationally so that, in some way, using the authority of the ministry, we can help the municipalities to resolve certain matters gently. But what I said at the beginning is true. Notice that all of us I don't want to criticize anybody. The reality precedes. Well, that's the way it is. RES is a new branch of the economy that we haven't been tidying up so far. Ladies and gentlemen, we will even have to prepare, as you will see, persons who will be designated for the appropriate assessment of technical equipment as part of technical surveillance. Notice this is happening today. And the longer it lasts, the more there are some technical phenomena that will interact. And let's see that we don't have any solutions so far. So what we're trying to say is we're trying to grab it from the legal side, but we're trying to get it from the institutional side. Well, if you'll excuse me, I can't tell the ex-cathedra that I'll see what the court finds. All we can do is get close to it because we have all kinds of expertise that we've been working on. We tried that record, maybe not the happiest... But the question is whether, in view of these circumstances, it can be different, better, ladies and gentlemen, because something is not always something that we can say about it: it is to be that way. Sometimes the complexity of the problem is that actually whatever we do, it will always be unsatisfied and we will not be entirely convinced of it. And here we have this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u82	You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, you didn't answer me clearly to the question of policy correction. In my constituency there is a documented deposit of brown coal, Krobia County Górka, and therefore for many years there has been a big problem regarding the possible construction of a brown coal mine. Therefore, I have a very specific question: will we still build brown coal-based power plants in Poland Or stone? I ask this because Minister Tchórzewski said that the last coal power plant would be the Ostrołęka Power Plant. And is there anywhere in Europe that I'm talking about the European Union where new power plants are built based on brown coal or hard coal? Because the fact that the Germans operate brown coal plants is obvious, and they will exploit them until the deposits are exhausted, but there the amount of energy produced from coal is steadily decreasing in favour of renewable energy. The guarantee for such a possibility that the sun will not shine and wind will not blow, is the local energy systems, which are complemented by local gas power plants. This is a distributed energy system, the direction in which Western Europe is going. I think we should take this course as soon as possible. Therefore, I ask whether any coal-based power plant in our country will be built again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u84	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, you were talking about the energy mix, you were referring to German, for example, and you were talking about the fact that Germany is complementing this system from these sources as well. This is true, but they move significantly towards renewable energy, i.e. renewable energy sources are increasing and conventional sources are decreasing. In view of the fact that you are referring, for example, to German, can we think that, in general, we are going this way, or are you referring to this example, but we are going the opposite way? This is the first thing. Second thing. I would like to say yes: I thank you for your substantive conversation today. It may be a kiss of death for you, but I wish yesterday's conversation with Prime Minister Morawiecki had the shape ours has today. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u86	The question is Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u87	I have three questions and I kindly ask you to answer in writing, because the answer to them goes beyond oral... [[Put it in the form, please. The Minister will answer in writing.]] First thing. I kindly ask you to present the hourly charts for February for the 3 largest renewable energy suppliers in Poland. I'm talking about wind energy. I mean not so much about suppliers, because it is secret as it is about Polish Energy Networks, because it is public. Second thing. I kindly ask you to present just for the three largest, what is the daily forecast at which stage of forecasting. How many percent are we able to predict 24 hours a day? And the third case. I ask you kindly to list the production of electricity from biomass This is the largest renewable production factor in Poland. A list of where and how much we produce from solid biomass.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u88	These are questions asking for a written answer, so the answer to today will only be Senator Flork's question, and that will be the end of the questions. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Thank you.]] No one else signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u89	I'll be back, Minister, to tax the buildings, because the buildings... Here's the 2%. , the matter is clear. But I did find a transcript of our 2016 meeting. The Minister of Infrastructure Tomasz Żuchowski participated in it at the time, and I don't think he's a minister anymore. Then he promised us that in November 2017 there would be a construction code, he talked about spatial planning, but that's by the way, since he's gone, there's no, well, you can promise. Then the definition we discussed in this room... It was that, of course, the predecessors did wrong, because the foundation and mast is just a building object. Therefore, the Minister said, I can recall that also this turbine, this part, all together, consists entirely of a building. So we discussed and it turned out that the building is the whole thing, not the same as the predecessors who did it wrong. Only the foundation and only the mast. So it's clearly defined. We also asked about the financial consequences, about what tax would be for this reason, and we said that the Minister should make a clear statement in this regard so that there is no doubt. That's all we asked. Unfortunately, we didn't get the answers. We came out with conviction, like everyone else, that the building was so defined that it is also... Therefore, it is not surprising that the municipalities charge tax because if they did not charge tax... This is the responsibility of the mayor, the mayor, as my colleague has already said. So something doesn't agree with me here, Minister, when I compare what you're saying with what Minister Żuchowski said two years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u90	Minister, this was the last series of questions. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u91	As far as Senator Pekkis's questions are concerned, perhaps, if you'd allow us, we would have answered in writing. [[Yes, in writing.]] It's about the graphs and the compilations... [[That was the offer.]] [[Yeah, yeah, in writing.]] ...and I'd like to be fairly precise. [[The charts must be in writing.]] As for the brown coal issue, because there was this question of the senator, today we are predicting Złoczew's discovery, that's what we have in mind. And the others... As far as deposits are concerned, the Ministry of Environment is currently preparing a large document on the raw material reserve. In this raw material reserve there are not only hard coal, brown coal, but also many other raw materials. And that remains in that reserve. I think that our successors around 2030, shortly before, will have to decide whether or not they will anticipate making further discoveries. Maybe in the Gubin area, where there's a lot of resources, but I don't want to settle it today. As far as my position is concerned, I think we should do discoveries of Złoczew and Oscosłowo, these 2 discoveries that should... As far as Oscillo is concerned, we have a private investor, and we have a meeting on this matter in the near future. The energy from these discoveries is very much needed in the energy system today, ladies and gentlemen. And as for building... It is a matter of building a mine in the Bełchatów region. Secondly, I must tell you that something that we have introduced into the program on hard coal and brown coal, we have been thinking about it in the management, but we have decided that we will put it in. In addition to economic elements, economic indicators, we should also take into account, due to our entire history of restructuring in Wałbrzych, and not only Because of the restructuring in Silesia, in other areas of the social element. And that's a question, among other things. Villains. At a time when we don't want to make a discovery that is needed in the system, it would be necessary for us to start a big diagnosis right away, an analysis of what is needed in this community when it comes to investment, an idea to maintain a certain level and standard of living in this area. And I think that something that we should certainly consider in every period of operation and management, is that these economic elements should predict... that during the 15-, 20-year period we should also see social issues, so that we do not have those phenomena that we have in the Wałbrzych region. Now for the hard coal. I didn't actually say that, and the senator asked, that's true. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the phenomenon we have today with regard to hard coal? Recently, a very interesting article appeared in one of the newspapers: if Poland does not need coal, why is import growing? This is my concern, the person responsible for coal, I admit. We're trying to diagnose it. But this import also gives us some information. This is not downloaded only by entities of the State Treasury, and somehow I have an insight into some of the data they send us. Notice that when large imports of hard coal occur, it means that there is a market for this coal. If there's a market, it's business. If there's a business, it means there's a need. That's why I think I don't want to talk about some unique Polish specificity, although it does occur. If we can make it rich, and the state, and the entrepreneurs, because we know how to manage the hard coal sector, we know how to mine, we know how to convert coal, we know how to use it more and more... Soon you will receive something you asked me a year ago. The Fuel Quality Act, which will cause us to throw bad grades of coal out of the Polish market, which is of course a good solution. It turns out that we have to settle in actually a year by 2019 with these assets diagnosed today, i.e. having those mines that we managed to restructure, and having an analysis of what deposits they have, what investments are on the surface, so what costs we will have due to coal mining damage, how the Lublin depths will develop, what its potential is. Are we able to secure the liquidity and stability of supplies to our power plants, those that are, and those that we plan to do, for example. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh. And it seems to us, we are very sure that we need it, even for economic reasons, to build one coal mine to meet this demand. And today it's... Looking at last year, we can see that coal has reached 15 million tons. As I say, this is my concern, and I admit that we also have to take care of why this happened. And even from the point of view of the economy of the state... Notice, if there's so much coal coming in, it's business. It means that it is worth thinking about this: if we have our coal deposits and they will have too, shouldn't we stop mining under difficult conditions in present mines and build a new shaft or new mine where it will be easier to access coal. And that's what we're gonna settle until next year. As far as coke coal is concerned, here we have a slightly different phenomenon, but very important to us. Because Jastrzębska, as you know, benefits from a price discount, which is now quite interesting and it will last a while longer, but we know that we have a period of economics, and it's going to get a little bit lower, so... Well, now's not the time to talk about it, I'm just gonna say that we built a financial cushion of 1.5 billion for lean times so that when the price drops a little, we could walk through a dry leg. And there is a situation, ladies and gentlemen, that we have more orders for coke coal than we can extract. It seems that out of these mines we have today, with the availability of deposits, we squeeze almost everything we can, maybe just a few percent can increase efficiency. And here comes the question of getting into something that is designed when it comes to investment, so Dębiensko. I will say that Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa is interested in this project, talking to a private investor, because we think it could be a great complement to the functioning of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa in terms of external markets. Because demand is mainly in the steel industry, and today there is a higher demand for steel in certain markets. And from the perspective of our company, its profitability should be a businessly good idea. And in this spirit, we consider the construction of new mines in terms of these circumstances. As far as brown coal in Germany is concerned, I would like to say that a new mine in Hambach is currently being built, where even the historic wood forest has been cut out. So it's not that, uh, speaking of the German side, what I'm saying is... No, we are looking at Germany and France and other European countries as they deal with this problem. But surely, Mr. Senator, for example, this law shows that in ordering the RES issue, not only do we want to sort it out, but also fill in the EU parameters, and not only fill in the EU parameters, but also introduce RES into our system and control the increase in the share of renewable energy. Because we know that new technologies will appear, that maybe we are at the threshold of energy storage decisions, which can definitely change certain phenomena, and thus also beside hard coal, alongside investment in gas... See that we also have to balance with the gas, know how much gas we can take, distribute so that we can keep an eye on it... And Polish chemistry is also a great customer of gas. It is therefore important that we are able to correlate all these economic phenomena very strongly. Therefore, we propose investments in gas-based energy, because it is more flexible, it allows us to play faster than conventionally in the context of various natural phenomena affecting renewable energy, but also we cannot, I think, from the point of view of Poland not see the role of conventional energy. Hence, the word "mix" is not a magic word all the time, but it actually corresponds to what should be happening in Poland. Therefore, I think that this year we should be able to present to the senators and parliamentarians in the Sejm a document called the energy strategy of Poland. Were there any other questions? So I don't forget... I don't know if someone's... [[Yes.]] As you will recall, Senator, I apologize... [[I meant Minister Żuchowski, what he said and what you said...]] It's hard for me to relate... Let me put it this way: you have already listened to much of what I really wanted to say, sharing my concern. It's not that I don't see the problem, but I've been trying to tell you something that I've had to collide with as Deputy Minister responsible for this for some time, and something I've had to offer you and tell you that maybe it's better than something else. Is that perfect? No, I admit it's not. But let me say that, although I thank the department's colleagues, because there is a lot of expertise on their side, we have not been able intellectually to resolve these tax issues by eating, believe me, various law firms, discussions for two to three months. And I know that last year, especially in the autumn, this was discussed with committee representatives. And unfortunately I can say I'm sorry, but I can also say that we've done our best intellectually to come up with what we've come up with. And thank you very much for these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u92	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Pekkis. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Kazimierz Klein will be the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act, and the impression of Minister Tobiszowski's speech is that we are talking mainly about coal and brown coal and that the Minister answers every question we have asked, looking through the prism of matters relating to coal mines, brown coal mines, possibly coking plants, etc. As for these coke plants, recently in a conversation with a few people, I found out that a coke plant is being closed, which produces the best coke coal. But I don't want to talk about it because I don't feel competent. At the committee meeting, we generally said that we believe that this law is a good law, because it eliminates the various weaknesses of the 2016 Act, restores certain provisions of this law, which we have still adopted, and in the case of some provisions goes on. So she's heading in the right direction. But again: listening to the Minister's statements, it seems that there is an attempt to mix lightly in this matter. My question about wind energy at sea Because this law offers some opportunities for the development of wind energy at sea, it says that you can start purchasing auctions related to electricity from the sea... On the question of how the Ministry sees this problem, what is the scenario of action, you answer again in an incredibly complex way, in such a way that no specific information is coming into public space. And that's the problem, because it seemed that this area of wind energy at sea is getting a clear signal that it can start functioning. And it is worth recalling that when it comes to wind energy at sea, earlier investments were prepared by, among others, large foreign companies, which have withdrawn from the Polish market, but still is the Polish Energy Group, as well as private companies, which are very advanced about these investments, have all permissions, environmental behaviour, etc., etc. Of course, almost all of them, because here you say gentlemen... But I'm putting this thing a little easier. It's done. What does not exist is largely due to problems with Polish Power Networks or other institutions which do not provide, for example. connection conditions, etc., etc. There are a lot of problems, but very big public money has already been spent to run this program. And today, in his replies, the Minister is relinquishing this issue until the decision on nuclear power is made. It's worth getting back to this case. After all, we were talking about nuclear power at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy, a report from the Supreme Audit Chamber has been presented, which says that in the last three years there has been virtually nothing done about this energy, and some documents previously prepared have expired or have expired. That is the position, that is the conclusion of the Supreme Audit Chamber report. I'm just afraid that every other element, going back to nuclear energy, etc., leads to the fact that other renewable energy sources, such as windmills at sea, are moving back into the future. I would ask the Minister, once again, to answer in writing what is the timetable for wind energy at sea. Now we are back to the issue that I raised at the meeting of the Economics Committee on real estate tax for windmills. And here again the situation is that unfortunately the 2016 amendment has definitely messed up. Previously, these buildings were taxed, these buildings, as is in the record that you want to return to. But in 2016, it was decided that the whole building was taxed, that the windmill was treated as a building and is therefore taxed at 2%... We have pointed out that this is a problem for entrepreneurs, a serious problem, because these are significant amounts, greater than before, which these entrepreneurs have to bear. But if you're gonna make a recipe like this... There's nothing in the tax system like the Minister says it can be done, or it can't be done, or something like that. If there's a rule like that, then the municipality has to charge a tax... Not even a commune, because it's the entrepreneur who folds... [[Voice from the courtroom:...a declaration.]] ...a statement, a declaration in which, according to the rules, he says: this is the tax. It is not even a decision of the municipality, because it is the entrepreneur himself, on the basis of the applicable rules, who makes such a declaration. So it's quite different, Minister, than you say here. Because you say you can negotiate, talk, and so on. There's no such thing as tax talk. If the Ministry of Energy wanted to know how many municipalities in what amount the tax on these facilities, windmills at sea, within an hour would have received such information from the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance is connected... The municipality's tax system, the municipality's budget is linked to the Ministry of Finance. Just a de facto click and query to the municipality. The municipality is obliged to provide such information. More Some of this type of information is simply available online because it is. If there were any doubts, it was necessary to ask the Ministry of Finance how this problem should be settled in this law for tax reasons. And that question wasn't from the ministry. We raised that question a week ago. We asked: what is this, what is the budgetary problem? There was no clear, clear answer. There was no answer at all about the amount. But a week would be enough to find out everything about this case about the gold. You didn't do that. It was easy to answer the question which municipalities, as the Minister says, charged the tax at this rate and which without this turbine, not included in the tax according to the Minister. These are simple questions that can easily be answered. In April this problem was reported by the Association of Renewable Energy Friendly Municipalities. Already in April! Besides, his representatives asked them to attend the session of the Sejm Committee. They weren't invited. Later, they repeated their request for an invitation and addressed it to us because it was a meeting of the National Economy Committee, and they sent a letter to the Marshal. There's an answer from the law firm and the Senate and the Sejm on this matter, but they weren't invited. I found out about it later. And another thing. Municipality of Kobylnica, Pomorskie Voivodship The clearing of this tax, also met with refusal or disapproval from entrepreneurs... Which is understandable because none of the entrepreneurs want to pay high taxes, everyone wants to pay lower. And in this case, there's been a judgment on how to charge the tax twice, even This is the first time that the Law of 2016, which confirmed that only on the basis of the base and the pole, the tax is charged, not on the turbine, and after 2017, the judgment was already based on the new law, that this applies to the entire structure, including the turbine. I think these cases should be known and known to the Ministry. Today I still verified and checked this case, and talked to the treasurer of Kobylnica Municipality. Just always answer the questions in a clear, precise and clear way. Because it's a pretty important issue. That's my amendment... I'm reporting it again and I'm proposing it because there are municipalities that actually have this tax... The tax must also be paid by entrepreneurs because they make their own declarations. And every month, from January, they have to pay a calculated tax of 1/12. So this tax has already been paid in the six months of 2018, in accordance with the regulations, and this tax on the municipality is required to pay back in the light of this law. And they can no longer negotiate that, as the Minister says, with entrepreneurs. That's not what it's all about. The municipality is essentially obliged to refund the tax because it has been wrongly charged and if not, at the request of the trader, the tax must be refunded. Since this tax was so heavy on entrepreneurs, naturally they will ask for its return and the municipality will automatically have to pay back this money. I therefore propose an amendment again. She can still be corrected and changed so that she is really as good as possible. Given that it is Parliament, and thus the government decides on this method of taxation, and this system works backwards 'Cause if it's moving forward, obviously this element can't exist. I propose that the burden of reimbursement of these taxes should be borne by the state budget. And I suggest, realizing that we don't know exactly how big this problem can be on a national scale, so that there's a possibility of this return within three years. That would be the basis... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. This would be the basis for the municipality, having already spent this money on various projects, investments, etc., to be able to borrow a loan to possibly cover those expenses that have already been, so to speak, accepted by the municipality, even paid the money, etc. So that's the amendment I'm making. I'm asking you to consider her kindly. And, technically, there are no problems with the whole operation, because next week, I think next week. There is a meeting of the Sejm and he is still able to accept and introduce our amendments into the legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u94	Thank you. You're making amends, aren't you? [[Yes, sir.]] You have the voice of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u95	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! When we applied the RES Act in 2017, I stood here and asked you to do so, I warned you that this law would have to be amended. Such a bitter statement, Minister: we have wasted a lot of time. At that time I told you that the bill discussed at that time was a proverbial nail to the coffin for entrepreneurs associated with RES. I understood them very well because I was in touch with them, and I worked my whole life as an entrepreneur. I have pointed out here, among you, specific examples, but also threats. About these threats I spoke very carefully at the committee meeting and at the Senate session. At that time, the Act adopted by the Sejm and the Senate was detrimental to the RES industry, because contrary to the statements in the explanatory memorandum it did not in any way contribute to solving the problem of oversupply of market certificates of origin, on the contrary, it had a rapid and negative impact on the situation of economists, investors of RES. And that's the truth. In addition, the growing economic problems of RES investors due to the decline in revenues of the next group in many cases have been a serious problem. Mainly for crediting banks in the RES sector. It was a serious economic and financial problem. We can say that for 3 years we stand with investments in RES. For 3 years we have not implemented the international arrangements, that is the truth. If you look at what Poland has done for 3 years on RES investments, you can honestly say that not much. I will move on to this amendment to the Act. I also see the pros here, Minister. The positive effects of the amended amendment include, first of all, the correction of the provisions on state aid rules contested by the European Commission. Auction procedures have also been improved and a number of rules have been simplified, including the calculation of state aid. I also welcome the implementation of a new support scheme in the form of FIT and FIP tariffs, which will be available to owners of smaller hydropower plants and biogas plants. However, it is a pity that other renewable energy technologies are not covered by this scheme. But I consider it appropriate to extend the validity of the permits for the construction of wind power plants on land. This will make it easier for wind developers with such permits to participate in auctions. The project also eliminates interpretation doubts about the way windmills are taxed with property tax. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a small step forward compared to what the PiS government has done with the RES industry over 3 years. I appreciate that, but there's still a lot of work to be done, even if the altitude lock is lifted on healthy terms, Minister. I hope you will allow the Polish RES sector to finally get back on its feet. I still had a lot to say about the commune, because I'm in the middle of consulting and talking to community associations, but Senator Kleina, sort of took what I had to say from me, so I'm not gonna say it again. I'm signing off on what he said about the communes and the conflict. 'Cause I think it's a conflict. That is what Senator Klein said, and the amendments he has tabled are very logical and reasonable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u96	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen! Minister, as before, yes, and today I say that I am pleased to listen to you, but as for some of the speeches, I would like to say that you are not listening to you like a free Europe. I would like to quote your words here that Free Europe has been jammed. We'd like to discuss it with you, not to drown you out. And I wish you wouldn't talk like you're on the radio, just one way, but you'd listen to us. not only like radio listeners, but also those who have experience in local governments. I would like to say briefly: Minister, please change your tax advisor in local governments. Really. Let me be very gentle: Minister, you are completely, totally, totally wrong. As for the main point of the bill, I don't see any criticism here. The association of municipalities, which is a friendly production of renewable energy, is positive about the draft of this law, that is a positive thing. But these communities are paying attention to one important problem... From the speech I received here... The impression of the Minister's speech was that it was not such a problem for the Minister. And I want to show you, Minister... And I ask for reflection, not on Radio Free Europe, but in the Polish Parliament. It's not like what you asked Senator Pekkis, i.e. whether the manufacturers were satisfied... the essence of lawmaking should be dialogue and satisfaction, as far as any of the parties are concerned, and not the fact that some are satisfied... After all, as you introduced this bill in 2016, the Minister standing here spoke about a clear interpretation. Minister, you said, and this is written in the minutes: if the courts were to pass judgments, it would be fairer for us to do so in a clear way. I want to tell you that I already have 7 judgments of courts in Poland from various cities, which clearly interpret it as it has been so far: 2% of the total is what the municipality should delete from entrepreneurs. And the fact that there was a movement in the wrong direction, that's when we were talking. Minister, you don't build the law from one side to the other. So first, it's completely hostile to entrepreneurs who built a financial project, a functional project for many years, and you cut everything in one day and one night and said, "You're going to pay more." Now, as a result, as you have said nicely, the talks with the European Commission... I also have praise here: you are the first representative of the government to speak positively of the European Union's committees. Minister, thank you very much. As Senator Filip Libicki said, maybe this is a kiss of death, but in the areas of merit, it is a pleasure to listen to you because you listen to these things. Therefore, please and I beg you to listen to the voice of Polish local governments. For information, the local authorities that are involved in this field are producing energy from 180 to 200. I'm going to present the numbers for one municipality. One more thing. Minister, this project has not been consulted by a joint committee of government and local government, and it is vitally relevant... [[Voice from the room: He was...]] I have information he wasn't, but if he was, okay, that's okay. I have information that he has not been consulted financially by the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. And the first most important thing. Minister, I say this as a free counsellor on local governments and financial law for local governments. According to Art. The 50th Public Finance Act, which may result in a reduction in the revenues of the public finance sector, must include in the justification an indication of the impact, i.e. the impact on local governments of this project. Show me where it is. Well, if it's not Senator Kleina's proposal, it's an offer to have it in from 2019. Then it'll be time to settle this. I know there's been a good deal to lighten up the business. 'Cause I can smell it a little bit. Okay, I think it's a move in the right direction too. The clarity of the records, readability, but also a certain financial perspective. You didn't give this perspective to entrepreneurs, but at least give it to local governments. This is so that they can prepare for the implementation of this bill from January 2019. And the second most important thing, Minister. After all, self-government is an institution that has to plan certain things from a legal point of view. I know you love energy, especially coal and other sources of energy, but I want to tell you that it's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But he asked me to ask Senator Kleina... Because it really bothers me. ...there's a law ordering the municipality to implement a multi-annual financial programme. This is a document that puts things ahead for many years. The municipality plans its expenses and revenues for many years. So if we reduce revenue, not in the financial year, but in January 2019. Let's give the municipality time to prepare for this. After all, it is as logical and simple as the construction of the cepa, Minister. Yeah, really. It's not like you can do that in a financial year. You changed it once for entrepreneurs as part of the project, and now you want to turn it the other way for municipalities. Well, that's not how you conduct a stable financial policy. You said it wasn't like there was an increase in the community's mandatory tasks. That's what you said: well, there's no problem, because we don't increase the responsibility of the community. Minister, here again as part of free advice, I would like to tell you that there are tasks of the municipality, which are called municipal investments, and here every amount of money is needed to improve the quality of life of residents in every municipality today. That's why it's so important that you don't take your own income and that's where you're doing what I'm about to show you. In order to ensure that the prospect of combining own income with Union money does not end in the middle of the financial year. Please understand that. I'm begging you! Minister, understand that. It's like your family, when you're on a tight budget, somebody took half your salary, 20% would be half poor, but he'd take half his salary. And he said, well, now you're in charge. And that would only be because you once did something wrong in the legislator's judgment. That's why I'm suggesting you think really deeply about it. And last but not least, Minister, to reassure you in this conviction of a good cause, so that this bill is better than it is... We are not proposing any political solutions here. Minister, this municipality, which you spoke about, Senator Kleina, Kobylnica municipality, was recognised as one of the best municipalities in Europe in terms of using the renewable energy generated before the change, i.e. when the old rules were in force, had this property tax under a simple interpretation of 3 million 600 thousand. Minister, $3 million 600... as part of a good change... If it's a good change, it's gotta do something. After all, a good change is not that we give a good word. You have to take something out and give it to me. So what did you do? That's what you guys said. I mean, the Minister probably wasn't the author of this great idea. The municipality received 10 million instead of 3 million 600 thousand. Well, that's great. Zero from the budget, and the town's better. But the entrepreneur isn't so naive, Minister. And what did some entrepreneurs do? She sold these power plants to her mother and daughter companies. I don't know how it's done, it's reduced the value and the community's income has dropped to 4 million 700 thousand. It's still more than it was before, but the revenue's down. On the question of why you are doing this, there is said to be an answer: if the authorities of the Polish state, or government, do what they do, then we must defend ourselves against it. If we introduce this law now, Minister, the municipality will receive PLN 1.5 million. Minister, this is the end of fun, irresponsible financial fun and municipal income. They had 3 million 600 thousand, then 10 million for a while, and now, as a result of this bill, they will have 1.5 million zlotys. And what else? This year they'll have about... [[Voice from the room:... 1 million 700 thousand.]] ...one million 700 thousand. Over $3 million last year, and 1 million this year, $700,000. Please once again as the man who spent 20 years in local government. Minister, I ask for more respect for an area called the financial stability of the local government, which is guaranteed in the Constitution. Stability in terms of perspective... After all, in my opinion, the world will not collapse if we introduce the amendment of Senator Kleina to these good solutions in this area which was mentioned at the committee meeting and in the Minister's speech. or if in this revenue part This would still be to the detriment of the municipality, and we will introduce it from January 2019. I ask on behalf of myself and all local governments to maintain the stability of Polish public finances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u98	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jackowski's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you and your colleagues! I would like to say first of all that... because this is where the Free Europe thread appeared, as a senator from northern Mazovia. More specifically, from the Ciechanian subregion, I must remind you that in these areas, actually in Przasnysz, there was a military radio-location unit... [[...who was jamming.]] ...which just jammed Free Europe in the times of the Polish People's Republic. So I would like to add some addition to this discussion here. But I'm moving on to substantive issues. High Izbo, as I mentioned, I am a senator from northern Mazovia. The problem of windmills, wind energy, is a social, economic, cultural and, in a sense, political problem. And the fact is that in my constituency of five counties, which I represent, in two counties, the problem of windmills is particularly important. It is the district of żuromiński and the district of Mławski. Indeed, in the past, when there were no detailed regulations regarding the position of windmills, these windmills were placed in a way that caused social conflicts. Later, a law was adopted, which somehow regulated it, especially through a distance factor, which excluded the possibility of placing a wind tower too close to human habitat. But I'm referring to the situation, so to those windmills that have already been put up, and from this point of view, especially in small rural communities, the problem that we are discussing now. This is the main thread of our debate. It is particularly important. I would like to quote here one fragment of the letter from wójtów z Stupska, i.e. the gminas in the powiat Mławski, and Kuczborka, i.e. the gminas in the powiat żuromińskie. This letter is very distinctive. Self-governments write to me I sent these materials to the Committee on the Environment In the following manner. We consider such an error to be the change described at the outset which affects the revenue of local government units during the financial year. In the case of the municipality of Stupsk, this is a loss of the municipality's income by more than 7%, which with the budget of PLN 22 million is easy to calculate, what is the amount It is a significant amount and may interfere with its implementation. In the law that deprived the municipality of its income, there are no provisions written down. On the compensation of lost revenue and on the mechanism to correct the amount of the compensatory part of the general subsidy for municipalities. As set out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, entry into force of the amendments relating to the article. Points 1 and 6 and Article 2. 3 point 1 of the project will automatically result in a change in the subject matter of property tax on the basis of the Local Tax Act. This will have an impact on the level of taxation of the property tax on wind power plants, as this tax will only be levied on their construction part. End of quote. This is part of the justification of the law that we are investigating. But I'm still quoting the letter of the rabbles. The financial statement of the regulations does not state that the adoption of the rules during the financial year with effect from the beginning of this year may affect the finances of the units of the local government in which the wind power plants are located. The implementation of the new retroactive tax rules may jeopardise the certainty of legal trading, but also the risk of breaching confidence in the authorities of the State acting on the basis of the law, which consequently constitutes a breach of the fundamental principle of tax law that the law does not act backwards. No more quote from the position of these guys. High Izbo, I mentioned that this is also a political problem. We're on the eve of a campaign for local government right now. We know the term was extended for five years. We will probably choose at the end of October or at the beginning of November, the term is not known to the councillors, wojites, mayors and presidents. I don't know whether I want to, I don't know, this bill fits into the atmosphere of moods and pre-campaign discussions. In my experience, it will be one of the leading elements of the political campaign Let's not be afraid to use those words. Before the elections to local governments. This shows that the problem has a broader dimension, not only the strictly dimension of these municipalities. And that's why I've been addressing Minister Tobiszowski on this matter. I'd ask the department if he had that information... I would ask that we receive this in writing. I need you to direct this to me. If any of your friends are interested, of course. I'll make it available. How wide is the problem regarding the way these municipalities are taxed? In my opinion, this is not a marginal problem. Perhaps in the case of economically strong municipalities which were financed not only from property tax, this tax was charged on an old basis It's just my guess, i.e. from building elements. But in the case of poorer communities... [[He couldn't have been...]] Or he couldn't have been. The problem, in my opinion, is wide and therefore worth going back to. I'm sorry that the government's position doesn't work... I understand the reasons put forward and thank Minister Tobiszowski very much that he explained this to us here and, as a matter of fact, expanded our view of a problem that is complicated and multifaceted. It is like the Minister said: if these regulations enter into force, windmill operators will be able to be satisfied because they will receive a refund of the tax which the municipalities will have to pay back. On the other hand, residents who use these funds may be dissatisfied or even dissatisfied, because the local authorities will ensure that they are informed of why the budget is less. And that's why I think we're running out of time and reflection here to come up with a position that would get the support of the High House and the government... [[And self-government.]] And self-government. The point is to somehow develop a transitional mechanism. I understand that the commitments, the talks that have been made are important and that this is supposed to be from January 1. But the problem of financing the obvious loss of a part of the budgets of many municipalities How many, we don't know It is a problem which, as I mentioned at the outset, has a dimension not only of local government, but also of social and political nature, because we are already in the period of the local government campaign. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u100	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I think I will continue this thread, which has already been introduced by Senator Jackowski, because, as I mentioned earlier, I also know municipalities that count to 10,000 inhabitants and they seem to be genuinely exposed to the biggest financial problems. But at first, I would really like to thank you for the substantive discussion. She's very important, very important. Today's discussion is probably being watched by local government officials because it is important to them. This discussion takes place not only in a way that is substantive, it is still cultural, which is very, but we are very lacking here. Especially yesterday that wasn't there. But let's not go back to these sad things. I would also like to continue as if... Many words have already been uttered here about RES, so I will only return here to the letter and to the speech of representatives of the municipalities from my constituency, this applies to the municipality of Karlino and the municipality of Dygowo. I have this speech, so maybe I'll use records that sort of reflect these very big problems. The presentation shows that the existing definition of the structure is very clear and there is no doubt about who and for what the tax must pay. This is confirmed by all judgments of the courts which dismiss taxpayers' complaints against the interpretations given by the municipalities. None of the judges had doubts as to how wind power plants should be taxed in 2017. This is the judgment of the WSA, the Provincial Administrative Court in Bydgoszcz of 20 February 2017, the signature of Act I SA/Bd 866/16, the Provincial Administrative Court in Gorzów Wielkopolski of 8 March 2017, the signature of Act I SA/Go 56/17, and of 5 April 2017, the signature of Act I SA/Go 95/17, the judgment of the WSA in Olsztyn of 23 March 2017. This is the judgment of the Voivodeship Administrative Court in Bialystok of 8 November 2017, the Voivodeship Administrative Court in Łódź of 7 December... I'm sorry. Something's come up. ...of December 2017 and of 30 January 2018 and of the Provincial Administrative Court in Gdansk of 19 December 2017. So these judgments were given much more, and as we know, the NSA supports If we would like to bring this to the judgments of the NSA by the judgments of the provincial administrative courts. So we are providing you with really positive examples, Minister, so that you can fight for these communities as well. I'm talking about fighting, because... the right place would be the government committee and the government, and that's where these cases should be settled. From what the representatives of these local authorities have written, it also appears that this local government group was completely omitted during the negotiations. I'm gonna quote something else here. It is also not true that the financial justification for this law is not true. The Ministry of Energy wrote this: "The entry into force of the proposed regulation will not result directly in the need to bear expenditure from the state budget or from the budget of local government units. The proposed regulation does not impose additional financial obligations on local government units or on the budget of the State. However, additional opportunities for economic development and activation of local communities can contribute to economic growth and increase revenue to the state budget for new investments. I think the Ministry has forgotten or does not know that according to the wording of the article. 50 Act on Public Finances. Journal of the Laws of 2017 item. 2077, as amended, the draft laws and acts adopted by the Council of Ministers, the financial effect of which may be to increase expenditure or reduce the revenue of public finance sector entities in relation to the amount resulting from the existing provisions, shall include in the statement of reasons the amount of these effects, the sources of financing and the objectives of the new tasks and measures determining the degree of achievement of the objectives. There is no own analysis carried out by the Ministry of Energy, which refers to the source data published on the website of the Renewable Energy Association, which unfortunately is the main player in this industry. And the impact on public finances, the state budget and the municipal budget is huge. Without prolonging, because all arguments have already been dropped, I would like to say, as I have already mentioned, that Karlino's municipality is unfortunately in danger of a financial disaster. From day to day the municipality of Karlino will become bankrupt, because it will be obliged to repay the instalments of the tax for 2018 and PLN 525 thousand each month; a total of PLN 6 million 300 thousand. Current revenue was set at PLN 55 million 810 thousand, 907 including taxes and charges, PLN 23 million, 803 thousand, PLN 366. From real estate tax 20 million 602 thousand 43 zł. As a result of the proposed amendment to the Act, the loss of real estate tax revenue of 6 million 300 000 will mean a reduction in planned current income of 11,29%, tax revenue and charges for 2018 26.47% And from real estate tax to 30,58%. Ladies and gentlemen, the operating surplus for the repayment of loans will also decrease. These are important things. and loans and for the development of the municipality and investments from 6 million 812 to 512 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, in practice, this means a financial disaster. I'm just gonna mention Dig. Their account has already been billed with 5.5 million in taxes from the proposed amount of 4 million... I appeal, Minister... I'm sure you're a man who understands not only the mining situation, but also the small rural communities, up to 10,000 inhabitants. Minister, this is really going to be a disaster. I think we should re-examine those records in the bill. You can always take a step back and let these communities this year... It's about keeping them alive. I think the factor that Senator Jackowski mentioned is important, and he mentioned the situation that will happen... It is the mayors who will bear direct responsibility, but they will probably have to tell us who allowed such a disaster. Once again, perhaps on behalf of all of us, local government officials and not only, senators who are in contact with such situations, I ask you very much, Minister, to re-examine this case and at least suspend the procedure over this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u102	Thank you, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The law, the bill that we are dealing with today, is very important for the Polish energy economy, is an integral part of it. Poland has made some commitments to the European Union, to which it is proud, and will try to meet these commitments. This does not change the fact that the entire energy sector of the European Union is dependent, first, on the consumption of energy. I'll talk about it in a minute. Second, from the possibilities of the countries concerned, and this is due to the availability of deposits. It turns out that within such a small area as the European Union, this availability determines that some are fully self-sufficient, other countries, e.g. Switzerland, 100% they can generate energy from natural goods, that's 100% renewable energy sources, but there are also countries where there are no big winds, there are no large falls in water or a large amount of water, there is no significant cost-effectiveness of geothermals, because there are no large temperature differences, and these countries have to count on what they have. We in Poland have enough fossil fuel in the form of hard coal and lignite, just like our neighbours in the east and in the west at this latitude. As regards electricity consumption, including electricity and heat, Poland is in a very good place. Poles on a European Union scale, and already in our region in particular, because this is very closely correlated with the geographical width, are extremely economical countries. For example, in Poland According to Eurostat data, I use official data, i.e. 21 GJ per capita per year, in Germany 27 GJ, but already. Belgium is 30% higher energy consumption, France also has higher energy consumption. Therefore, we as a nation need not be ashamed, and we should be proud that we do not have such a high energy consumption. Does this result from our underinvestment in household budgets or from our resourcefulness? It's hard to say. The important thing is that we in our country can respect this energy, and at this latitude we are Europe's champions in terms of energy consumption. That's what you have to talk about, because that's the reality. And when it comes to... And all this time, for years, she's been trying to tell us that we're at some crappy end of the whole stake that we can't do anything. But let's look at Eurostat data, what the united Europe says about this. From this data it is possible that we do not have air conditioners in each apartment. That we do not consume as much of this energy as Western Europe. That's one thing. The second issue is the issue of renewable energy sources in Poland. And this is contrary to this discussion, which here is only around windmills, in Poland energy is mostly not produced from the wind, and this is because Poland has adverse wind conditions, outside Pomerania and outside of a narrow strip running through Wielkopolska, Mazowsze and Kujawy. Very good wind conditions are still high in the mountains, but because of the location and the difficulties in access, they are not used. Therefore, we will not produce much from the wind. But there are indeed large consortia, these are French, Spanish and German consortia, which, using a certain trend, namely that there were large, very large subsidies and these were fixed subsidies, decided simply to run a certain business, of course, Poland is fulfilling its obligations towards the European Union. And, in fact, until the rule of law and justice was taken over, it was one great eldorado, i.e. They did what they wanted, with no consequences, no regard for social protests. It wasn't strong enough for that. There was just no law, there was a whole bunch of legal gaps. Law and Justice systematically, consistently tries to correct reality by introducing legal solutions. You're focusing on those unfavorable ones, especially today, those relating to windmills. Ladies and gentlemen, over 70% energy produced from renewable energy sources is energy from solid biomass. In the second place on this list is energy from biofuels. Only in third place... This is a dozen percent market share. Renewable energy sources total 13.5% the market. And in third place, in those 13.5% , a dozen percent falls on windmills. It's just here. But this is a lobby that's very strong. It's the lobby that has a bunch of lawyers, a bunch that cares about his rights. You can see it in this parliament. You haven't said anything about water energy, the most stable one, or you've talked about it in a few minutes, very little. You're only talking about those windmills. It's just the strength of this group. You are the strength of this group. [[Listen to me with understanding.]] Does this mean that they have such a powerful influence on the Polish energy economy? No. The numbers speak for themselves, and these numbers don't lie here. There was a lot of information here that just lied to reality. There has been talk about how the price of electricity from renewable energy sources in Germany is falling. Very good. We look at Eurostat data, we look at data on European energy prices and energy production in Europe. Where are the Germans? At the top. If it's so good there, why is it so expensive? Where would we like to live? Finland. There, the price of energy is more than half as much as in the most expensive country, Portugal. Of course, I'm talking about energy prices. [[I'm in California.]] [[Me in Poland.]] Does this mean that such large price differences result only from the renewable energy economy? Of course not. They also result from availability. In theory, it would be the cheapest to use energy sources in Denmark, because prices are the lowest. It's where they have their own raw materials. But in Denmark, a tax is added to the price of energy sources in almost the same amount, so it doesn't make much sense. There's something else bothering me. I am concerned about 2 things in Polish energy and, using the situation, I express this anxiety. The first is the lack of a consistently implemented Polish energy development plan for future years. And I'm not talking about the term. Energy has this disadvantage that it is not implemented within a single term of office and must be planned for future terms. Such a consistently implemented plan in Poland was not and I say that it is still not there. If anybody thinks otherwise, please present such a plan in the form of consecutive, consistent points. And it's not the Minister's fault or the gentlemen sitting there. This is, unfortunately, a burden of several decades. I am talking about twenty few years, in which Poland passed the transformation period. Contrary to appearances, I say it with sorrow and heartache The Communists in this respect, they were much better. Perhaps because that system was completely out of line with the requirements of democracy and could therefore make very large investments at the expense of the whole society. [[Is that better or worse?]] [[Is that better or worse?]] This has nothing to do with democracy. Unfortunately, the problem is also... Anyone who looks at the development of large energy investments will see that where democracy is well developed and where citizens watch over certain things, the development of large energy investments is very, very difficult, and when it comes to large investments in renewable energy sources, e.g. water energy, almost impossible due to social protests. There's just some kind of fence, some area to get out, some area to flood. And here, unfortunately, man turns out to be more important than the areas we're supposed to flood. There's a lot to talk about energy. In conclusion, the Pole is still a man of accomplishment. Our boss, our voter, is a man who counts money. As a result, it is our duty to do so. That's how I see it, Mr. Minister, is to provide our voters with access to a stable energy source at the lowest possible price. We're far from it. We have stability because our carbon energy is at a very high global level when it comes to environmental protection, at a very high level. That needs to be said loudly and clearly. This is one of the highest levels achieved in Europe. This is energy, which over the next three decades has made almost impossible technological growth. It's the energy industry. I'm afraid we're unlucky. It is disliked by Europe, the European community. My problem is... I will refer to one sentence of one of the opinions attached to the bill presented today. And that's what bothers me, Minister. In order to achieve the national renewable energy target for 2020 and the international commitments, separate auctions were established in 2018 for a maximum amount of 193 million MWh with a maximum value of 81 billion with a hook, of which up to 36 billion constitute notified aid. This opinion concerns me, because from this sentence it follows that each of us here and each of our bosses, our constituents, will add a round thousand dollars to these renewable energy sources as a result of international agreements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u104	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a few additions to my earlier speech and to this discussion that followed. I would like to say this: let us vote in favour of this law, because, as I said, it is really good in many areas and will serve renewable energy better in many places. But here we are paying attention to this one element, which, according to many of us, including colleagues from Law and Justice, is very important. We're talking about this property tax that the municipality collects. And we don't want any radical change here. We accept that you are returning in your proposal to what was in force during the Civil Platform. Okay. That's good. Except we're talking about this six months this year right now. From July 1st let the rules as they were before apply. We're just talking about this six months. And that's the problem, so to speak, essential. And here you can't just use this kind of argument that it's beneficial for entrepreneurs or for citizens and we can introduce such rules. It's true. Tax provisions favourable to a citizen or an entrepreneur can be introduced at any time of the year. It's just that there's another issue here. It's us as Parliament... The government introduces rules that are beneficial to the entrepreneur, but at the expense of another entity, i.e. self-government. And then there's a slightly different problem. The community of the world over Osa has already asked... She pointed this out to the Attorney General of the Republic of Poland and says that it is unacceptable practice that they will have to refund almost PLN 4 million for property tax after the entry into force of this amendment of the law. The municipality of Wicko in the district of Lęborski in the Pomeranian Voivodeship will have to return PLN 6 million to entrepreneurs for this purpose. This is really a very serious loss in the income of the municipality that was planned... More: this money has been spent in practice. Rarely which municipality keeps money in its account all year round. There's a lot of self-government here, a lot of former mayors and mayors, and they know what that means. Again, we're just talking about the first six months of this year. How this will work after the entry into force of the law, it is already another issue, with this we do not discuss. Although it will be unfavorable for the municipality. But it will be beneficial for entrepreneurs and we think it can be. This is Senator Pekkis talking about us, Senators mostly from Pomerania, that we are lobbyists in a bad case. True, there are the most windmills in Pomerania. It's true. And that's where the problem is with the greatest power. In the municipality of Potęgowo, this return will be 40%. the corporate property tax that the municipality collects during the year. So this is a serious problem. You really had to consider this case and try to do something. Once again, please and I suggest: let us vote in favour of this bill. Allow me. But in order to be able to vote for it, we need to complete these small elements. Even if it's my amendment... Or maybe one of the Senators of Law and Justice will write a better amendment on this matter, and then it will be easier for you to accept it, and it will be even better. If it turns out that this is the wrong solution, this amendment can still be rejected next week. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we don't make this amendment today, we won't change it, then we won't go back to the case. We condemn ourselves, I say, all of us, although we do not vote in favour of such a solution, and we warn against it. The fact that local governments will apply to the State Treasury. Once again, I say that the municipalities charged this tax, but it was the entrepreneurs who made the tax returns themselves, because this is the result of tax legislation, they themselves are obliged to do so on the basis of the provisions of the 2016 Act. That's the problem and it's worth paying attention to. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we adopted a law amending the IPN Act. Do you remember the atmosphere in which this bill was adopted, in which any climate... We've all been paying attention. After all, it was a return to the solution that we proposed, which we encouraged you to do six months earlier, that this law should be formulated in such a way, those provisions concerning criminal liability. Yesterday, you guys went out there somehow, in whatever way it all turned out, but it finally came out. Yes? Don't do that again in a few months, so we'll have to retreat from different solutions in the same way. I'm not even saying that you're supposed to listen to us, that we're all brains here, because that's not what this is all about. All the comments we make, me, my friends, my friends... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...they result from the fact that representatives of local governments.... [[...thank you very much...]] ...experts pay attention to it. Don't listen to us, listen to people who are specialists in this area and on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u106	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Lech Czarnobaj. [[Voice from the room: Leszeka.]] [[Oh, my God, it's so ……]] Leska Czarnobaj, I'm sorry. [[Little Lech, that's Leszek.]] [[I'd like to be, Mr. Marshal, Lech, like Lech Walesa, but unfortunately they gave me Leszek.]] No, Wałęsa is Leszek. [[Lech.]] [[Big.]] [[Oh, and the marshal knows better. I'll get to the point...]] Lech, I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'd like to say two words to the senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Wałęsa, Mr. Senator, is Leszek, and he was called Lech in the environment.]] Okay. [[Lech Kaczyński was called Leszek.]] [[Oh, I see.]] [[Leszek Black...]] Oh, it's Mr. Marshal on me as Leszeka who says Lech. [[And Mr. Lech... thank you very much.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Oh! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator Pekkis! I, too, would like to say two words. I understand that this is also part of the political debate, but I would just like to separate it. We haven't once talked about what's going on. I thought so. The political side, the one on whose side the lobby stands, but if you demand it, I declare: I am primarily on the side of the lobby, which consists in reason, truth, respect for law, and in this particular case I am on the side of self-government and law-making. I know it's not a problem for you, because you asked me if any entrepreneurs were protesting. Well, why are you asking me if entrepreneurs were protesting? I could say, you represent the lobby. No, you're just asking if entrepreneurs were protesting. But why would they protest? If we make it more specific for them, and that's a good proposal for a bill, and we lower taxes to that, what, they're still gonna protest? No, they were protesting when, in the same way, we were making the same mess about the real estate tax interpretation for them. And that is why we once again said this to Senator Kleina and I would like to emphasise it once again, Mr. Senator, we ask that you create a law that is predictable, among other things. for local government units, and that's what we lobby for. And since you're talking about sovereigns and grades, just for quick... I won't be compared to you, you're a high-end professional in this field, but I'll read it to you, you know that. Because Eurostat announced data for 2017 and writes that one of the highest increases in electricity prices is in Poland, almost 7%. Taking into account the comparison of purchasing power, the lowest cost of households is borne by households in countries such as Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands. We know how much money people have, and yet they bear the lowest cost. And some of the highest electricity costs are in Germany, Portugal and Poland. It's just to complete your statement on what the sovereign wants. The Sovereign expects, among others. that the proportion of costs incurred as regards household energy baskets will be the same as in the first countries indicated. Because you mentioned Finland and those other countries. And as far as the lobby is concerned, once again, I am on the side of the law lobby, the stability of the law and its predictability, and on the side of the local governments that they will have. What Senator Shark and Senator Kleina were talking about It's a huge financial problem. And that is why we ask the Minister to reflect on these amendments which, in our view, Minister, will not break this bill, the good law, the law needed, which will improve the existing law. Therefore, we ask once again for this analysis of one or the other proposal concerning the entry into force of this law. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u108	Thank you, Senator. [[Bravo, Lech!]] The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Does a government representative want to comment?]] Is the representative of the government of the Senator, I apologize for the proposals put forward? [[At the committee meeting.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: After all, the questions were...]] Thank you very much. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled by... Aha, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom... [[And the corrections? Can we say about the amendments?]] Oh, sorry, yeah, yeah. [[I'm sorry I didn't...]] Well, very well, Mr. Senator, you reminded me of that. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Klein and the Senators Jackowski and Szymański together. [[Very beautiful.]] The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Act amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom The Center for Civil Society Development. The text of the Act is contained in print No 842, and the report of the Commission In print No 842 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased to present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom The Center for Civil Society Development. This bill was filed by the government. It concerns an increase in the subjective grant for the Institute's statutory activities in the years 2018 to 2026. The amendment of this law is simple, single article and concerns an increase in the maximum limits for funding from the State budget of the Institute's activities. National Freedom Institute The Centre for Civil Society Development was established by the Act of 15 September 2017 on the National Institute of Freedom. The Institute took over from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy the implementation of the programme of the Civil Initiative Fund with an annual budget for grants to NGOs of PLN 60 million. The proposed increase in the expenditure limit in the revision is linked to plans to launch subsequent government programmes in the near future. These programmes are the Civil Organisation Development Programme for the years 2018 and 2030, the Solidarity Corps and the Boy Scouting Organisation Development Programme. In the context of the details of this law, one important issue in particular needs to be pointed out. As I said before, the law only raises maximum funding limits. The funds for this year for the activities of the national institute are already secured. As far as the next years are concerned, gradually, by 2026, the level of funding of the Institute will be decided by Parliament by adopting a budget law. The committees, after a joint meeting in which Minister Paweł Szrot and Minister Stanisław Szwed also attended, request the adoption of the law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u110	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Libicki reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u111	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, when we adopted the Act on the National Institute of Freedom, there were doubts raised that the Institute could, for example. finance some organizations, and others not. Speaking of the fact that these expenses will be increased, that you are more supportive of the Institute of Freedom, you have identified three groups of organisations for which these funds will be allocated in particular, among others. Scouting. Does this mean, Mr. Senator, that other organisations, from other groups representing other environments, will also be able to apply for these increased funds or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u112	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as I said, these limits apply to different programs. Of course, the programme, which is strongly stressed here, is the Civil Initiative Fund and, of course, various organisations can apply for funding from this fund. This year As a curiosity, there were over 3,000 applications, if I remember correctly what happened at the committee meeting. 500 applications received funding, i.e. organisations that submitted specific projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you listed three groups of projects that could be financed. I understand that this is the main element of the institute's support. Are the other expenses... Did you discuss other expenses at the committee meeting, e.g. About expansion expenses, about wages, because it's probably gonna cost money, or were you just talking about what's going on about supporting citizens' projects?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u116	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u117	Yes, Mr. Senator, we also talked about other expenses at the committee meeting. Here I would like to explain immediately that we see a significant increase in funding in 2019 compared to the original version, but this significant increase, this significantly higher amount, is related to the adaptation of the building on Parkowa Street for the purposes of the Institute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u119	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you said you were curious about these 500 applications for funding. Do you have a record of what happened in previous years? That's a great number? 'Cause that's how it sounded, like it was a big change and a big achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u120	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u121	Mr. Senator, I have no record of what happened in previous years. I'm just reporting what was discussed at the committee meeting, and there was no comparison with the previous years. [[I'll ask the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u122	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u123	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you were talking about the costs of the Institute, the National Freedom Institute. Can you quote what the amount is a year? How much does the government budget cost the Institute? [[In terms of living.]] In the sense of maintaining, of course. It's not the programs. It's the maintenance of the institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as I recall, that amount didn't sound like it at the committee meeting. I think the Minister will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u126	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Secretary of State has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I've got someone else on it... Does Minister Paweł Szrot wish to speak on the bill? There you go. The principal will have the right, too, if he wants to.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The text of the amendment has been very comprehensively presented by the Senator rapporteur. I don't want to repeat his entire speech. I'm just going to repeat one fundamental point. Today we are debating how to change the blank, i.e. the upper limit of expenditure from the state budget allocated to the National Institute of Freedom, and how this blank will be completed, i.e. what specific resources will be allocated to the Institute in the following years, will be decided in the first place by the Institute, in the next The government, and ultimately Parliament, by adopting the budget. With regard to the answer to the question which the senator referred to me, this year it is planned to finance the institute at the level of PLN 33.6 million, of which on remuneration Senator Duda was asked about these issues at the committee meeting. 730 thousand zlotys were allocated. I'd like to stress... There was talk of upgrading this building. This is essential to ensure the proper work of the National Institute of Freedom, but these expenses will actually end in 2019. As far as programme support measures are concerned, I would just like to remind you that these measures will amount to around 7%. expenditure of the Institute's budget, while European programmes allow 20% of programme management costs. So this is much more cost-effective and at a much lower level than in the case of European programmes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Mr. Marshal, please pass the bill in the form submitted by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u128	Thank you. Minister, please remain on the stand, because the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a representative of the government. Senator Duda volunteered. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u129	Thank you very much. Minister, in 2014 Prime Minister Gliński said that civil society is weak in Poland. That's a quote. Do you think, in connection with the amendment of this law, that these 60 jobs and the 20 million-dollar building will strengthen civil society? It seems that this amendment, so fast, will remind you that six months this law has It has one goal, that is to gain money not for civil society, but for strengthening institutions. Would you mind referring to that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u130	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u131	Mr. Senator, that's for sure... Let me remind you that we are not granting any funds to the institute today, but we are increasing the upper limit. It will then be decided on specific measures for its activities. Increasing this ceiling will help to improve the situation of civil society, as these measures will go to social organisations. Those are the facts, Mr. Senator. Also with regard to the operation of this programme We're talking about these jobs... I would remind you that from the beginning it was said that from the beginning it was said that we should reach this ceiling of 60 posts. It was included in the OSR of the original project. I would like to remind you that the cost of adapting the building has also been estimated on the basis of very rational, factual and cost-effective calculations. Mr. Senator, please accept my explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u132	Thank you. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u133	Thank you. Minister, well, it looks like the institute has been operating for a while, and as far as Parliament is concerned, the Senate, after the adoption of this Act on the Institute, it is basically, as I understand it, your second presence here, which this time is connected with the finances, with the increase in those limits that you spoke about. This means that the Institute has been in operation for some time and you have therefore come to the conclusion that these measures are necessary for further functioning. I would like to ask you how you assess this first stage of the Institute's operation. Because if we are to decide this, to vote for it, we want to know how you evaluate this first stage of the Institute's operation, its activities without an increased limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u134	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u135	Mr. Senator, I'll answer that. As regards the increase in the limit, this is due to the development of the Institute's activities. Additional resources will be needed for this, which is why we are raising these limits. The Senator rapporteur spoke here about three programmes: the development of civic organisations, the development of volunteering The Solidarity Corps, the development of civil organizations. These programmes are already at the final stage of preparation. At an earlier stage, slightly lower, but also near the final, there is the fourth programme, the support programme of folk universities. Therefore, additional resources are needed to develop these three new fronts of the Institute's activities. How do I evaluate the work of the National Institute of Liberty so far? Mr. Senator, I judge it very well, especially in the context of the award of the grant contest in the Civil Initiative Fund. I would just like to remind you that 3,000 offers have been submitted and 500 offers have been selected from all over the country. These qualified organisations will receive over PLN 90 million for annual and two-year projects. As far as this competition is concerned, I would also like to remind you that 70% selected to finance offers comes from organisations which have not yet benefited from the programme's funds. Yeah, 60%. offers selected for funding come from small organizations, with a budget of up to PLN 100,000. Over 60% Offers selected for funding come from organizations from small towns, up to 50,000 inhabitants, from these smaller centres. And in connection with these decisions I've been talking about, I'm judging all of this very well. However, for the Institute to continue to work equally efficiently, to allocate these funds equally efficiently, there will be a need to increase the limit. Thank you. Mr. Senator, please accept this explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u136	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We do not have a full picture if we read only the text of the bill, without the earlier text. Namely, in addition to renovation of buildings, it should be noted that from 2019 to 2026 these limits increase, practically 10 times. But these are no longer limits of funds for renovation, as the name itself indicates, but for organisations, so it can be presumed that 10 times will also increase the number of organizations that the institute will serve. This will certainly benefit civil society. So far, we've had an average limit of 3 million 700 thousand, 3 million 800 thousand, and now we have a limit of 40 million 800 thousand. I think it would be good if it sounded like it, because we have to compare these proportions. I have another remark, a purely technical remark. Namely, we do not change the amount of the limit for 2017, of course, but we change it to 2018, just increasing it by 6 million. The Act shall enter into force 14 days from the date of the announcement. Should it not be added that it enters retroactively from 1 January 2018? Because the limits are for the whole year, not just for the piece we have left. But that depends on the Minister's approval.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u138	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u139	Mr. Senator, I've already talked about this. Modernization, adaptation of the building at Parkowa Street for the Institute ends in 2019. Then all the funds and funding for the funding of the programmes and the funding for the operation of the programmes will be devoted exclusively to the Institute's substantive activities. As far as the legislative comment you have submitted is concerned, I do not agree with it, to be honest. The appropriations for the current year have already been actually provided. This increase mainly concerns the beginning of the adaptation of the building in the Park, and partly the operation of tasks. I think that from a legal and legislative point of view, the wording of the law is correct. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u140	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a quick question. You said that the cost of implementing and administering these programmes by the institute is 7%. In a situation where the permissible limit referred to by the European Union is up to 20%. Can you explain to me if this is 7%? means that those who implement different types of projects will not be able to bear any administrative costs. If this were not the case, this would mean that the administrative costs of implementing the programme need to be added up. 7% this is the cost of the institute, but also the institution that implements it will probably bear some administrative costs. As far as I know. Maybe I'm wrong. That's why I'm asking the Minister. It follows that the 20% concerns the costs of implementing projects, not the costs of administering projects at the level, I do not know, EU or national. If the Minister could clarify that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u142	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u143	Senator, this is not the cost of implementing the projects. We are talking about a European ceiling of 20%. This is the cost of managing programs... [[At level...]] ...at institute level. We'll try to clarify that further, but that's how I interpret it right now, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u144	Thank you. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u145	Thank you very much. Minister, in this bill, as we have already said, the government focuses mainly on money. But I'd like to ask you a question. The National Freedom Institute has been in existence for more than six months and has not yet presented any new programme for the organisation, and this also applies to the key National Civil Society Support Programme, which, as we have heard, was to be the foundation for the other programmes. The rest, in my opinion, is, you can say, in the fog of various supposed consultations, which we cannot know anything about, because, Minister, the institute has until today, and it has been over six months, has not been able to create its website and to inform it honestly about its activities. Don't you think it's at least weird?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u146	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u147	Mr. Senator, you mentioned this general program. I already explained that at the committee meeting. This programme is being implemented in a segmented mode and the 3 programmes that I have been talking about, the rapporteur said, are the first three stages of the implementation of this National Civil Society Support Programme. As far as the Institute's website is concerned, I received information Mr. Kaczmarczyk may be able to clarify something here. That this is already at the final stage of preparation. As far as these matters are concerned, please address the questions to Director Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u148	Good. Now I have questions for you. You said 7%. costs for the implementation of programmes That's how I figured it out. He's staying at the institute. Yes? [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: It is intended for the Institute.]] For the institute. And what's the level? %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% The eligible costs for which you will agree when it comes to non-governmental organisations? That's my first question. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Would you like to continue, Mr. Marshal, or should I answer immediately?]] Answer me right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u149	Mr. Marshal, that's it, 7%. These are programme management costs. As regards the eligible costs of implementing programmes on the part of social organisations, I undertake to reply to the Marshal in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u150	I'd appreciate that. Thank you, sir. And now I have another question. Tell me what organizations... 500 NGOs have been eligible for funding. Tell me what non-governmental organisations have received the greatest support.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u151	Mr. Marshal... [[I'd ask for 20 such organizations.]] Mr. Marshal, of course we will also give you a detailed reply in writing. At this point, I can say that the following organisations have received financial support. Foundation for Parents for School, Parents for Society, Warsaw This is a project to broaden knowledge of the rights and obligations of teachers, parents, students and employees at school. This foundation received PLN 166,000. As another example, the Association for the Intergenerational Support for Human Development is a project called "Identity must be shaped and nurtured," which consists in shaping historical knowledge, regional identity among the young generation of Lubuszan. This is a project that amounts to PLN 300,000. I can name a lot more here, but I don't think that's what this marshal is about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u152	Minister, then I would ask for a written reply. And a list of these 500 organizations, please. Please also systematize it so that it is from the largest subsidies to the smallest ones. The point is to make it clear. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Is there anyone else? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I volunteer.]] Uh-huh.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u153	Mr. Marshal, I just want to clarify... This is a question of organisations qualified for FIO programmes. This is a public matter and it is available on the FIO website. But, of course, I'm committed to the fact that, in agreement with the institute, we're going to sort it out, we're going to systematize it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u154	I understand, but I hear there's no website yet, Minister. Now Mr. Senator Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I have a few questions, but maybe one at a time... First of all, I would like to ask, Minister, what is the allocation of funds for individual programmes. Do you have that knowledge today? No, you don't. And when... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I repeat... If I may, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u156	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u157	I repeat: these three programmes we have been talking about are at the final stage of preparation. When they are accepted, we will have more concrete knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u158	So you're also not going to answer my question about how 60 additional jobs will be made when it comes to the planned and current programmes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u159	Mr. Senator, this will be managed economically, in accordance with... [[Thank you.]] ...with the experience of the institute and according to the plans he has. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u160	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u161	So, Minister, I'd like to ask you if you have any idea what the procedure is going to be... [[Why don't you ask all the questions? Yes?]] Okay. If I can do that, it's for the best. [[Yeah, yeah.]] So my next question is: what will be the procedure for assessing proposals for new programmes? Will the final opinion of the selected experts be taken into account, or will the decision of the Director be based on the non-binding opinion of the experts? Is there a known procedure? And, if you don't mind, one more thing: I don't mind Boy Scouts, on the contrary, but I'd like to ask you why a dedicated Boy Scout program is being created, which includes only one type of organization. Where are the other youth organisations? Have you considered that? Because it's aimed at one organization, and the others report to me and say it's not fair to them. And what about these consultations? Well, you're proud of the fact that the consultations are being conducted, but the signals from the NGO community are completely different. That it is done without a broad participation and need... All you have is a public benefit council. It would be worth taking advantage of the other... That's all for now, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u162	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as the criteria for selecting projects are concerned, they are set out in the National Freedom Institute Act. This law requires a qualitative assessment of projects and offers on the basis of 5 statutory criteria, namely the adequacy of the offer in relation to the objectives of the programme; the quality of the action plan included in the offer; the potential impact of the activities included in the offer on participants, the organisations involved in the implementation of the offer and other stakeholders; the possibility to implement the offer in the partner group; the appropriateness of cost planning in relation to the purpose, results and scope of the action. The Institute will benefit and benefit from these new programmes in the selection procedure for tenders and projects from external experts who, in a manner independent from the Institute, will assess tenders and proposals with respect to the criteria indicated. Dear Senator, this procedure has already been applied to 3,000 projects I would like to remind you that 500 projects have been qualified in the field of FIO and will be applied to new projects under these 3 new programmes. As far as scouting is concerned, Mr Senator, Polish scouting presents such a horizontal type of activity, concerning so many areas of social life, that I think it is absolutely justified to dedicate a separate support programme to Polish scouting, especially since it is only one of the 3 programs currently covered by the Institute's activities. As far as public consultation is concerned, I confirm that the Council of Public Use Activities has responded positively to this project. In my opinion, however, this is understandable as regards the attitude of the participants on the part of the social organisations of this council, as it will enable social organisations to be given more resources. It is clear that representatives of social organisations should not protest against this solution. Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u164	Thank you. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u165	Thank you very much. Minister, you said here that the FIO received 3,000 applications, offers and that you chose 500 from this country. I know you're probably not gonna answer me right now. It's understandable. But I would like to ask you if, in any way, the timing of the organization was taken into account in this selection. Because we had different media information that happened with other funds such situations that there was an organization that existed for a week or a few days, and got big funding. Therefore, I, as if by duplicated the question... First of all, I'm asking you if you've met with cases like this or if there have been cases like this. Secondly, in doing a little bit of the question of Marshal Borusewicz, I would like to add another criterion to this list, which will be listed and presented to us: the duration of operation. I would also ask for this list with such clarification: listing according to the size of the funding and the duration of the organisation's operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u166	I agree. I'll ask for it, too. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u167	Senator, as I said, I will oblige Principal Kaczmarczyk present in the Chamber to prepare such a list with this one criterion added. I have no information on the scope of the temporary functioning of these organisations, which will, in fact, already be beneficiaries of the FIO. I presented data on the diversity of the budget, the size of the organization, the size of the centre from which it originated. That information, Mr. Senator, we'll complete the list. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u168	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Maybe it's not so great about this bill, but if the Minister could give me an answer, yes or no, because it's not an area that I'm particularly concerned with... Is there a government cooperation programme with NGOs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u171	Mr. Senator, there is a non-governmental support programme in the form of those segmented programmes that we have been talking about here. Well, the National Freedom Institute is carrying out government tasks in supporting and cooperating with non-governmental organisations. In my opinion, this is absolutely sufficient for good cooperation with NGOs. [[Can I make it up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u172	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u173	Minister, I don't expect an evaluation. The Minister said that what you're doing when it comes to the institute is enough, and I accept that. I am interested in whether you are acting strategically, namely whether there is a cooperation programme with NGOs. Because I would like to say that, legally, from the municipality to the local authorities, there is such a duty, a legal obligation, that before entering the competition, a given idea of a group in a given field must be included in a programme of cooperation with non-governmental organisations, where, among other things, a positive opinion of non-governmental organisations is required. That is why I ask whether this mechanism is similar at government level, whether it works as the Minister said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u174	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u175	Mr. Senator, I've already told you what the evaluation criteria look like. The government cooperates with non-governmental organisations using the legal means at its disposal, mainly from the National Institute of Freedom Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u176	Thank you. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u177	Thank you very much. Minister, it's a little side-by-side, but, as you know, the biggest controversy in recent years. 'Cause this isn't just about the last few months or even two or three years 'cause it's about the mechanism of one percent... or the percentage you're supposed to say. Will the Institute take any action in this regard? Because that's the subject. It's extremely important. Especially the subaccounts. Are you able to take on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u179	Mr. Senator, this is the scope of the matter entirely next to our regulation. I can understand that as a de lege ferenda conclusion. And I accept that, Mr. Senator, to answer in writing. I will oblige the Institute's management to prepare a position in this regard. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u180	Thank you. I have one more question. Can this financial support of the Institute for NGOs also apply to cooperation of Polish organizations with organisations outside Poland, suppose, dealing with youth? Can scout organisations work together with... Will this programme also include support for cooperation with Scout organisations? Is it off and the government has another path?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u181	Mr. Marshal, it's all about this project to support scout organizations or... [[It's not just that. It's not just that. Did...]] This will, of course, depend on specific projects. At this point, I do not see any reason why such projects should cover certain elements of cross-border cooperation. Let me remind you that the projects of the programmes are at the final stage of preparation. They're gonna be ready in a minute, so it's gonna be final. [[So there's no...]] Yeah, I don't see why not.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u182	I see. And... I know that there is about PLN 4.5 million in the budget for cooperation programmes between Polish and Ukrainian youth. Is this your place, or is this out of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u183	In my opinion, this is outside our budget, in the sense of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers or the National Institute of Freedom. [[Thank you.]] I can't relate to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u184	There are no more questions... Oh, there's one more thing. I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u185	Yes. Thank you very much. Minister, there's an opportunity to ask... Maybe you have some knowledge about it, if you don't, I'll ask for a written reply. What are the issues of the Norwegian funds today? Are there serious delays when it comes to implementation? And please tell me, is this at all at stake when it comes to implementation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u186	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u187	Mr. Senator, your question has also come very far from the matter of today's amendment... [[You are the Secretary of State responsible for this.]] Mr. Senator, we'll respond in writing. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u188	I'd ask for a copy of that answer too... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Sure.]] ...okay? Because I'm interested in it, too. [[Can I get that information about the Norwegian fund, too?]] About what? [[About the Norwegian Fund, for this reply in writing.]] Uh-huh. So you're Senator Duda, Kleina and Borusewicz. Good. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you.]] I inform you that Minister Szrot has committed himself to providing written answers to the questions of Senators Borusewicz, Libicki, Duda, Kleina and again Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... [[And the principal?]] Uh-huh. Are there any questions for the director? [[I'll get started.]] You're welcome. The principal didn't speak, so I didn't ask him. But Director Wojciech Kaczmarczyk has the right to answer your questions and speak. You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u189	I'd like to, Mr. Director... When this bill was passed, we had different opinions on this case, and I remember that, you remember that. My question is this. I think the only thing we agreed on at the time was 1%. It was an idea to support small organizations, but there was a situation that in fact won large, professional organizations that could afford advertising, just to collect the 1%. in large quantities. I thought it was a bad thing, a 1% distortion of the idea. I understand that during these six months, you have probably dealt with mostly organizational issues, but probably a bit of substance, too. I'd like you to tell me if anything's happened in this case for six months. As you can see, what are the plans for the future in such a way as to balance it a little? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u190	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u191	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, 1% case. and regulatory issues are outside the competence of the National Institute of Freedom, which is an executive agency prepared for the implementation of the programmes and not for the preparation of these programmes or for the preparation of solutions in this area. However, as Secretary of the Committee on Public Use, I can tell you that, at the moment, the chairman of the Committee, Prime Minister Gliński, has ordered that, in the course of routine checks on spending of 1% of funds, this year, to gather information on how NGOs, in particular those that run sub-accounts, use funds from 1%. Experience gathered, information in this area in the autumn will be the basis for launching a broad debate on 1%.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u192	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Director. [[I'm the one who's still...]] Are there any more questions? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u193	I would like to ask you the following question. In his speech, Minister Szrot spoke about three programmes, three areas for which increased resources will be allocated. Next to the Boy Scouting, there was a name... I mean volunteering, the Solidarity Corps. Could you tell me a little more about this? I was particularly interested in this member of the name: the Solidarity Corps. To whom will this program be addressed? How is it supposed to work? A little detail, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u194	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u195	If you'll allow the marshal... The Solidarity Corps programme is the programme supporting the development of long-term and systematic volunteering, i.e. those forms of volunteering which are the most difficult to implement. We assume in this programme that the support will be provided by volunteers who, for at least a year systematically, at least 16 hours a month, will provide support in various NGOs. The Solidarity Corps programme assumes very close cooperation between managing bodies, the National Institute of Freedom, and non-governmental organisations where volunteers will provide their services. The Corps will provide the volunteers with training support, both training at this early stage, joining the Solidarity Corps as well as specialist training. Also psychological training in the case of the provision of volunteering in such difficult forms, e.g. hospice volunteering, hospital volunteering or volunteering in social assistance homes. The Solidarity Corps will also provide the volunteers with integration support, coaching support, lead them, support them in providing volunteering in these most difficult forms. The Solidarity Corps will also support organisations that involve volunteers and, in particular, facilitate their coordination of volunteer functions, the management of volunteer functions in their organisations and the support of volunteer coordinators in civic organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u196	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Director of the National Institute of Freedom - Wojciech Kaczmarczyk Civil Society Development Centre: Thank you very much.]] The discussion is closed. Are there any conclusions? [[The discussion is opening...]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[New habits.]] [[Shorter than yesterday.]] Of course, I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Lech Czarnobaj. [[I'm Leszek, but as the Marshal says Lech, it could be Lech.]] Okay, Leszeka, Leszeka... You know who it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Director! Mr. Marshal closed the discussion quickly today, getting used to it or getting used to it from yesterday's session... [[I'm sorry, but this isn't the habit of yesterday's session, and I'm not going to continue.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, would like to say a few words when discussing such legislation, as I said when setting up this institute. From what we read about it, it appears that perhaps in a few countries in Europe, let alone the world, there is a national institute of freedom that deals with cooperation, or actually monitoring, accounting, because when you give money, you have to monitor, see what the results are, account. I would also like to repeat what the people who are sitting here know, so I'm sorry if I say it again, but it's worth talking about. During the term of office, there were, by July last year, about 14 new institutions, which were appointed for the term of office. That's a pretty good score, one of the best in Europe. Because this is, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of a certain way of ruling: I have money, the client is setting up and I'll give it to him. It's called "clientelism" in the common language. We had such a discussion about civil society in my beloved hometown of Kwidzyn, we hosted the president of the largest American company in Poland, IP, and we talked about the issue of relations in general: power and civil society organisations. And, of course, to this model. we are about 100 years short, for various reasons, including among others. because of the wealth of Poles... But I'd like to ask the Minister for a moment... I'm almost done, but I have one thing to tell you. This man could not understand the following: well, how does power give money for specific purposes for civil organizations and yet sets these goals? I understand that we will still, so to speak, have gained experience in this area, but the creation of more and more institutions that deal with this clientism is not a move in the right direction. This is the first case. Well, we official as Europe, we as Poland take a fantastic example from Europe and even exceed it in the field of creating new institutions. And I think that's the direction you're worth it. I'm talking here to my fellow law and justice politicians. In such internal debates, think about it, because it is one model of cooperation with non-governmental organisations. I asked the Minister, the Minister said I don't think he's here. That's how I figured it out. This cooperation programme with non-governmental organisations. Well, that's the whole essence of it, Minister. You should define the programming framework in the fields, not choose that it will be, I don't know, football players, basketball players, scouts and the implementation of a project. Well, it's such an Eastern European model, to say the least, if we're talking about cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Extreme model that operates in some countries Although I can honestly say that few in Europe are such that these are state institutions, e.g. the government, the voivodship authorities, establish a competition for the selection of an organisation managing a given perspective and a pool of money, specifying certain objectives that are to be achieved. Then it is completely different, this initiative taken for the general objective goes from below. Of course, it would be best if the 40 million each year I'm counting so quickly, it's going to cost the institute, it's going to stay in the citizen's pocket and if the citizen decides what organizations he's going to support. You can invent different roles of the country also in this regard, because please note... But this is a normal picture: first there's a startup, some amount, 60 jobs, and now 20 million per building, etc., etc. This is a road related to the development of administration even in such an area as cooperation with civil organisations. Oh, and one more element, the one I asked the Minister about. 7% the entire amount will be absorbed by the Institute in terms of national governance, i.e. the publication of competitions, etc. But with each type of project, there will be a percentage that will have to go to the administration of this particular project. A few years ago, when I was involved in this field, I read how to reduce administrative costs. And I'm gonna say we're going in the exact opposite direction. So the direction of official solutions concerning elements of cooperation with non-governmental organisations and the supervision of state institutions over non-governmental organisations is a model, in my opinion, of Eastern Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u198	Thank you, Senator. Senator Alexander Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Director! High Izbo! A few reflections on the subject. Indeed, the situation that my previous speaker was talking about, i.e. that cooperation with non-governmental organisations is now connected with the creation of a certain branch of state administration or state institutions, may seem a little strange and if someone, for example. 50 or 100 years ago, he'd have heard something like that, and he'd probably be very surprised. Yeah, but... Stytes or Sorry We live in times where a very large part of the money is, so to speak, in government management or becoming public money, and some of it is spent supporting NGOs by definition. There is a logical contradiction in this, because the NGO is independent of the government and this independence should also involve the fact that the sources of funding for these institutions or those organisations are independent of the government. But we're actually used to it, in my opinion it's not, Mr. Senator, an eastern invention, because that's how it works in the West. We are rather adopting some Western solutions here, where NGOs are very strongly supported by various types of public funds, which are in fact managed by governments. However, I would see here a novelty, a new task or a challenge that stands before the institute, called not so long ago, in the last year. This is I really believe that. Extension of the field for institutions which have access to public funds. This is again a more European trend than only Polish. I do not want to be particularly critical of the predecessors here, but... This is a European trend, which is present in the case of many European funds, even the Norwegian funds mentioned above. Well, they are so profiled that certain institutions are actually excluded from them. Well, paradoxically many institutions or many Polish organizations, which have their specifics, are often associated with the church, etc., were from many European programs simply ex-definitione excluded. And now there's a great task... We'll see how the institute does its job. The role of the opposition is also to look, analyze and account, but this declaration or this task that has been given to the institute to expand access to public funds... Because that's how it works today, that NGOs work to some extent on the basis of public funds. The Institute's task is to broaden this availability for those organisations which had previously been excluded for many years without access for many reasons. For reasons which were on the side of those who granted these measures, often ideological reasons, but also often technical reasons, because some organisations simply did not think that public funds could be requested. And that's the job that the institute is facing. For now it is too early to talk about the effects, how the Institute will carry out this task. I think that next year at this time, after the first year or after the first two years, we'll be able to say something more about it. Today, I wish you all the best. In particular, Mr Kaczmarczyk, who is a person who knows non-governmental organisations, so that the energy with which you have undertaken this project does not disappear in bureaucratic procedures. I hope this task is accomplished. One more point on this mechanism is 1%. He would be to some extent healthier, because it would be a more direct incentive to direct money to the organization. This is happening to some extent today, and in my opinion it requires a longer process, including culture. Because today in Poland, helping is mostly associated with helping organizations that help the poor, it is a very good activity, I do not depreciate it or help the sick. Right? Common 1% That's what he's dedicated to. A allocation of funds e.g. For scientific societies, for publications, for some cultural endeavors... Well, we still have a problem with that, because in our mentality it's not part of, say, serious charity. Right? With great interest I look forward to hearing how 1% of the money is spent, but in my opinion it is clear that it is the charity organisations that are primarily profitable here, in the sense of helping the poor or the sick, rather than those in the wider dimension... And here's the field for the institute. So I wish the institute good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u200	Thank you, Senator. And I would like to ask the floor of Senator Jerzy Zając. [[Voice from the hall: Joseph.]] Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I guess that's because I rarely speak... But I'm pleased that the marshal remains with the same name. [[Thank you, and I'm sorry.]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! My speech will sound a little different. It happened that I spent several years living abroad. From the experience gained from the United States and Finland, where I worked and where I still have a certain place of work today, there is another observation. This observation shows that countries that are very high in development and economic development, and the organisation of society, have chosen a slightly different path Rather, it is going to socialize certain activities, certain organizations. I'm gonna start with the organization we've been dealing with for the last year. I don't know if I'm gonna name it right. That back-up army, that back-up army. Well, in all European countries it is an army in which no charges are paid to these soldiers. Starting with Switzerland, across all Western countries There's no way to pay conscripts to the soldiers of these armies. I once told Minister Macierewicz about this. He said it might be something to think about, but it just went into professionalization. Second line. Fire department. As professionally developed as we are, I think there's only us. Gentlemen with distinctions in uniform. Of course, they don't have one thing that worries me very much: they wear uniforms with distinctions, but they can't behave because they don't go through drills, and a man in uniform has to be able to do it. In the U.S., the development of the fire brigade has just gone to volunteer fire brigades, and that's what this is based on. Yeah, that's it, EMTs. We're professional. Somewhere in the United States, Finland, other European countries, this is the social direction. The public is involved in this activity. It seems to me that, by professionalising so many areas of social activity, we will be a little isolated from each other. We'll cool down the social spirit, which is very nice in the last 30 years. It's developed here. That is why I must say that it is difficult for me to be a supporter of this idea, which, as you can see, is moving on. Because on the one hand there is the modesty of the state budget, which has supposedly improved its resources over the last two years, but on the other hand we find very quickly ways of spending resources. The scouting I belonged to... Somehow it was hard to imagine that it would be an organization under something managing. They tried to do it, but it remained in the form of scouting before the war. I say this with a heavy heart, but I will not support the idea of professionalization and the allocation of funds to all these movements, the social activities that are going to go under a certain kind of management at the moment, because social energy, which we should never suppress in such a way that we formalise it, is really very positive and it is worth preserving its freshness and activity for the good of all of us. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u203	If you'd let the marshal, I'd rather... [[Please.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor, of course I left this aside so as not to heat the atmosphere, but I encourage you to know the inquisitiveness of your professor to read the interview and actually describe the situation in Poland when it comes to non-governmental organisations conducted with Ewa Kulik-Bielinska, who is an oppositionist for many years acting only in non-governmental organisations. She points out some trends and directions that are in Europe, which Professor Hare spoke of, and in which direction we are going. I think there's a lot of reason in the interview with Mrs Kulik-Bielinska about which direction So full-time, in short, let's go. No matter who is in power, the position of employment is dangerous for NGOs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u204	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Duda made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The text of the Act is contained in print No 836 and the report of the Commission In print No 836 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The joint committees at their meeting on 20 June 2018 considered the draft law addressed to them and requested its adoption. I would like to inform the High House that the main subject of amendments to the Act on Public Use and Volunteering is to reduce the contribution of NGOs to non-competition investments to 20%. Until now, this contribution must have been... Reduction to a minimum of 20%. Until now, this contribution had to be at a minimum of 50%. So this is a change that is beneficial for these organisations. This objective will be achieved by adding to the Article. 11b of the above-mentioned law after paragraph 11b. 1 paragraph 2 which sets out this question. During the committee's deliberations, the senators welcomed this regulation. The questions concerned only questions related to this proportion: 80% budget appropriations, 20% of the organisation's resources, as a result of this. The Minister replied that this was due to established practice and consultation with NGOs. The Act raises no legislative objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u207	Senator rapporteur, is this reduction in the required resources of NGOs related to programmes or investment tasks? [[Is that okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u208	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u209	Mr Marshal, this concerns the tasks referred to in paragraph. 1 of that Article. 11b. They are only of an investment nature, they are tasks commissioned in non-competition mode, but of an investment nature. [[I see. So it's not programs, it's investment assignments?]] Yes, sir. It has so far been a heavy burden for organizations, which for example. they built facilities to support addicts, because it is the catalogue of such projects that is taken into account here, projects of major public importance, among others. related to e.g. addiction therapy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u210	No further questions. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes.]] Please, Minister Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we have heard a very exhausting report from the Senator Elephant. Just so I don't say it again, I'd just like to say Even though Senator Elephant has already talked about it in part That yes, and not otherwise, the ratio between the share of own resources and government funding is the result of the work of the panel which evaluates offers submitted under Article. 11b. That's right, 50%. own participation was in many cases a completely dammed barrier, while 20% is for a large part of the organization absolutely to bear, so here should be no doubt. I stress that this project has also been positively assessed by the Council for Public Use. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, in the case of the previous point, we have argued in some way, but this time in the Lower House this project was adopted almost unanimously, and the committee has also been positively recommended, so I expect that this broad consensus which has been built around this law will be maintained in the Higher House and the proposal will be adopted in the form that the Government proposes. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. Right now, senators, I'd like you to wait a little longer. They may submit no more than one minute's query to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Without denying the sense of this project, on the contrary, I would like to ask about one thing, namely its narrowness. In 3 articles of this law, from the article. 11a to Article 11a 11c, are indicated in cases where it is possible to depart from the competition procedure, and this extension of the scope of the investment concerns only Article. 11b, not Article. Neither Article 11a nor Article 11a. 11c. These are other cases, of course. The question is whether or not such needs have been reported. Why it is limited to those cases in Article. 11b? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, with permission...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u214	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u215	Mr. Senator, this is the institution in the article. 11b The law on public benefit activities is a very special institution. The organization of public benefit is developing a project, submitting an offer and this offer is subject to evaluation by a special team operating in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. The decision shall, of course, be taken once the statutory criteria have been met. And in this respect, only in the scope of Article. 11b, the law firm of the Prime Minister is the host of this law. To the rest, the host of this law is, also present here in the person of the Minister of Sweden, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. These are resources at the disposal of the President of the Council of Ministers, but we have the right to interfere legislatively only with this one article. Mr. Senator, please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u216	If you don't mind, I'll ask you one more question, Mr. Marshal. The question is whether the minister present here may not be prepared for such a question. It could tell you what happened to other cases, e.g. with mountain and water rescue. This is how I imagine that there is also a need for some investment that is generally carried out by specialised entities from the third sector, and they would certainly be happy to make such a proposal that they can add 20% rather than 50%. Doesn't the departmental division have an impact on the legitimate expectations of these organizations?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u217	Mr. Marshal, I can only take this question as a de lege ferenda postulate. I'm sure the ministry will look into it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u218	I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[Me!]] Mr. Senator Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This is a long-awaited bill. Very good of you to present this bill. I'm sure you've been working on it, too. This limit is 50% In terms of investment, it was a very difficult threshold for non-governmental organisations to exceed, and therefore these organisations did not have the opportunity to invest, but investment was not a few tens of thousands, it was a few hundred thousand at least. Investments, buildings, equipment... Because, as I understand it, what we're talking about here will also include equipment. It was a barrier. Invincible. And as far as the various programmes were concerned, non-governmental organisations raised the right amount of money, several thousand, several thousand, several tens of thousands. However, this collection of several hundred thousand by the NGO was very difficult. That is why I will vote in favour of this bill. Many times NGOs have also addressed me. And it is good that these demands have been met. I think it's a reasonable investment, more meaningful than investing in government institutions. Once again, I will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 846, and the committee report In print No 846 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Andrzej Kamiński, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 7 June 2018 amending the Law on Trade Unions and certain other laws. The committee meeting took place on 20 June 2018. The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Trade Union Act of 23 May 1991 is to extend For the purpose of implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015 the scope of the right to establish and join trade unions. The amendments to the Trade Union Act aim to cover the full law of the union coalition, i.e. the right to create and join trade union organisations, all those who work for remuneration, regardless of the basis of employment, which may be classified in the category of workers on constitutional grounds. In this context, the employee shall be any person who carries out a specific job for another entity in the context of a legal relationship with that entity. The amendment of the Trade Union Act aims to enable the creation and accession of trade unions, in particular to persons performing work on the basis of civil law contracts, such as contract-ordering, contract for the provision of services, to which the contract or contract of works applies accordingly, and to persons conducting single-member economic activities, so-called. self-employed persons who work for the entity under contract. In addition, the definition of a person engaged in work implies that the right to create trade unions should be extended to those engaged in the work, who so far had only the right to join the trade unions established in the workplace. The full law of the union coalition will therefore benefit all those who do the work. As a consequence, it is necessary to grant the coalition rights to the persons mentioned here to make numerous amendments to the trade union law, in particular appropriate safeguard mechanisms against trade union activists and members of trade union organisations who are not employees against unequal treatment due to union membership or negative consequences due to their function or status, in particular because such protection is granted to trade union activists and members of trade union organisations who are employees within the meaning of Article. 2 of the Labour Code Act. In addition, as a further consequence of the extension of trade union rights to new entrants in the Trade Union Law, there was also a need to adapt the other provisions of the Trade Union Act, which so far only refer to workers within the meaning of Article. 2 Labour Code, e.g. certain provisions concerning the rights of a trade union organisation, the representation of collective rights and interests by trade union organisations or the right to hold collective bargaining and the conclusion of collective agreements, including an appropriate amendment to the provisions concerning the representativeness of trade unions and their transfer from the Labour Code to the Trade Union Act. The purpose of the proposed amendment on trade unions is also to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 13 May 2008, which found that the Article was incompatible. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on trade unions with Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 59 (1) (a) 2 and 4 in conjunction with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 31 (1) (b) and The amendments to the Trade Union Act introduced in order to implement that judgment are intended to align the criminal provisions of the Trade Union Act with the recommendations of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court held that this provision infringes the principle of the determination of criminal provisions as expressed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and the amendment therefore clarifies the marks of the prohibited act. The proposed law also provides for a number of amendments to the provisions of the Trade Unions Act, in particular those whose previous wording raised interpretational doubts or whose amendment is justified by the recognition of the law of the trade union coalition. In view of the above amendments to the Trade Union Act, the proposed regulation also provides for a revision of many laws, including. the Act on the resolution of collective disputes already mentioned, the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, the Act on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue. During the drafting of the bill, the proposed solutions were regularly consulted with the social partners, mainly within the framework of the Social Dialogue Council's labour law problem team. Your Senate, may I now move on to the course of the committee's work, which worked together. During the committee's work, Mr Stanisław Szwed, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy presented a governmental draft amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws. The Minister also referred to the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, which made 9 detailed comments, including 8 proposals for amendments. The proposals contained in comments Nos 1 and 5 and 8 were supported by the Minister. Note 4 has not been accepted. The chief legislator then referred to the proposal for an amendment prepared by the Ministry, which consumes note No 9 of the Legislative Office. It is based on the fact that all provisions of the Social Dialogue Council Act in which the workers are concerned are changed in a cross-cutting manner in order to identify persons doing work on a different basis than the employment relationship. Following the adoption of the amendments to the Article. 23 and 24 of the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue further required a transitional provision to maintain the representativeness of trade union organisations and employers' organisations on the basis of the current provision. This amendment was accepted by Minister Swede. He proposed another amendment, which provided for the entry into force of the Act from 1 January 2019. In this way, the rules for the application of the new rules can be kept transparent; the six-month period is indicated here. After discussing the amendments, President Robert Mątkow took over the amendments accepted and proposed by the Minister. These amendments were further supported by me in the Committee's work. During the discussion, Barbara Surdykowska, a specialist at the Expert Office, Dialogue and Social Policy in the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity, stated that the expert office had no objections to legislative amendments. In the ensuing part of the discussion, he spoke, among others. Mr. Marshal Michał Seweryński, asking questions about interpretation of the article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and 4 and asking who will indicate to the employer the protected persons, whether paragraph 1 will apply. Three, or lips. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 32. Later, President Jarosław Duda asked whether the granting of rights to unions concerning the protection of workers would not create new jobs in this area. The Minister replied that the provision on the number of protected workers has been in place for many years and that this law does not change. In turn, Senator Rulewski pointed out in his statement that the Constitutional Tribunal did not define in its ruling a legal form the solution to the problem of discrimination, as he called it, people who were working on their right to form organisations and join trade union organisations. He questioned the new wording of the Act, the fact that the right to form a union and join a trade union will be conferred on those who are engaged in a job, which will therefore be included in the article. 1 of the Act, the criterion not to bear the economic risks associated with the performance of work. He also asked for the opinion of employers' organisations and trade unions. In response, the Minister stated that the overarching value of the bill was to obtain consensus between the social partners, the trade union organisations and employers' organisations. Discussions lasted almost a year and the issue of economic risks was also discussed. The bill presented is the result of work in both the Social Dialogue Council team and the whole board. Senator Rulewski spoke again in the discussion, who stated in the last sentence that he was unable to accept this solution because it violates the purity of the Land movement. Minister in response, among others. Recalls that association in trade unions is a right, not a duty, and that it will be a new challenge for trade unions, as to how to attract them, regardless of their form of employment. At this point, a formal proposal was made to close the discussion and move on to the vote. High Senate, committees are asking the High Senate to adopt a draft resolution in print No. 846 A, which introduces 10 amendments to the Act amending the Law on Trade Unions and some other laws. The Commission adopted a bill with amendments tabled: 9 votes in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? If that's the case, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It would be difficult not to speak and not to thank Senator Andrzej Kaminski for such a thorough report from the committee meeting. I can only confirm what you said to the senator, as well as thank the Senate Legislative Office for the proposed amendments that we accepted as a government party. The bill was and is quite difficult to implement. But the most important thing is what has already been underlined here, that there have been many meetings with the social partners. Today we can say that we have obtained consensus during the work on the bill, and I could present this today to the High Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u225	High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to make one amendment to the bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 15 new amendments were proposed in the Act of 24 July 2015 on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue. It brings about changes in the determination of the representativeness of trade union organisations and employers' organisations as part of the Council. In view of the right to establish trade unions and the association of new categories of operators, it is necessary to change the name of one of the parties to the Social Dialogue Council accordingly, namely the exchange of words between the workers' party and the words of the earners. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 8 was adopted during the work, which is a very complicated amendment, consuming what I have just said. Therefore, in agreement with the Senate Legislative Office, I would like to present an amendment which I will now pass on to the Marshal, who will consume what was in Amendment 8, and which will change only Article. 1 in the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue in Chapter 1 and the tasks of the Council of Social Dialogue. As I said, this change in nomenclature will be consumed and this amendment will be much clearer and easier to apply later in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Kaminski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 831, and the report of the Commission In print No 831 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On 22 June, on Friday, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the draft law amending the Public Finance Act. I would like to say that in 2011, the Council of the European Union issued a directive that was a wake-up call for the financial crisis. requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States. In 2013, the Polish Parliament adopted guidelines related to the European Union directive at the request of the government. As a result of the evaluation carried out by the European Commission, proposals were submitted to the Polish Government to supplement the 2013 Act on the presentation of comparisons of national forecasts with the forecasts of the European Commission in respect of annual budget documents, presentation of sensitivity analysis in annual budgetary documents and evaluation of forecasts made by the Council of Ministers. On the basis of the bill submitted, the Minister, on behalf of the government, presented the proposed amendments to us. The Polish legal system introduces a macroeconomic scenario, an obligation to include in the draft budget law a discussion of this scenario, a comparison of the forecasts contained in the scenario with the forecasts of the European Commission, information on the actions taken, in the event of significant deviations from their ex post assessment, adversely affecting macroeconomic forecasts and analysis of sensitivity in terms of government deficit and debt, public debt and the level of expenditure determined for public finance units with different assumptions on growth and interest rates, together with a discussion of relevant risk factors. What is very important is that the budget implementation report will assess the implementation of the macroeconomic scenario. This is a very important element. There will be a discussion, an assessment of the implementation of the macroeconomic scenario and not of the macroeconomic assumptions themselves. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the committee, I request that the bill be passed. I would like to add that at the committee meeting the bill was supported unanimously, so it can be said that it does not raise any political controversy, as well as any controversy about the budget and budgetary analysis elements. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 837 and the report of the Commission In print No 837 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I kindly inform you that on 20 June a joint meeting was held between the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the review of the Act on the amendment of the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other acts The purpose of the Act is to make the necessary adjustments to the regulations contained in the Law of 24 April 2009 on investments in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście, hereinafter referred to as the terminal law. The analysis of existing legal solutions has shown that many of them need to be improved or verified, which is intended to enable the completion of the investments covered by the Act in time, i.e. by the end of 2022 at the latest. The Act provides for solutions to improve the implementation of investments in the gas transmission system. The interpretational provisions have been clarified, errors contained in the terminal law have been corrected, including by applying the solutions provided for in other special regulations, the list of investments covered by the terminal law has been verified by amending the existing parts and adding new ones. Legal solutions have also been introduced to take account of the Baltic Pipe project specification, including: cover of the Polish transport tariff of the investment carried out outside the territory of the Republic of Poland and the relationship between the permits provided for in the terminal law and in the law on maritime areas of the Republic of Poland and maritime administration. Cash penalties are provided for authorities exceeding the time limits for handling the case and the process of obtaining rights to use the property by the investor has been facilitated. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. During the committee's work, three legislative amendments were tabled, which were accepted by Minister Naimski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u230	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. A government representative for strategic energy infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Investment in the Construction of the Waterway connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. The text of the Act is contained in print No 835 and the report of the Commission In print No 835 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u231	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment discussed the draft amendments on 26 June this year. As you remember, in February 2017, we passed a law on investments in the construction of a waterway connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk. Later, on 1 January 2018, the Water Law entered into force. This law introduced a far-reaching reform of water management in Poland. Changed among others. the structure of public administrations. The State Water Farm of the Polish Waters was established and it took over the competence of the Marshals of the Voivodships in the field of the issue of water permits. The amendment, which we were engaged in, adapts the provisions of the Act on investment in the area of the said road to the new regulation mainly in connection with the acquisition by the State Water Farm of Poland of tasks of marshals of voivodships. That's the adjustment. During the committee meeting, three people spoke: Senator Rotnicka, who asked about the substantive content of one of the amendments, Senator Wcisła, whose speech was more about the source law, was at the same time a polemic statement, but the senator declared his support for the proposed amendments, and the rapporteur, Mr Jerzy Wilk, who was the rapporteur for the work being carried out in the Sejm. Then we took the vote. Draft amendments, the bill was adopted unanimously. Such a position shall be presented and recommended by both committees to the High House by the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u232	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is a somewhat embarrassing situation that there are 2 laws on important offshore, water-based investments, and there is no debate on these laws by a government representative. The channel by measure is treated in the propaganda of this government as a flagship investment. And where's the government representative? He's not here. He didn't want to come to the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the law on the construction of the channel by measure is directly due to water law, as the rapporteur said. On 1 January 2018, the National Water Farm spoken to Polish Waters was established, which took over from the marshals competence in the issue of water permits. So thanks to this change, the special act on the construction of the channel by measure adapts to the existing law. And we could end the whole discussion on this. If it were not for the fact that around water law and around the investment of building the channel by measure create some unhealthy atmosphere, unfortunately also fueled by the government. Water law in its present form does not stand up to the reality to the extent that the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has explicitly announced that it is necessary to clean it. On Monday, a meeting of the Parliamentary Waterway Development Team was held, chaired by me. The Ministry's representatives were unable to determine what this cleaning would be or what the cleaning range would be. But they announced that this process would be consulted, among others. Our team will be in this consultation too. What does that mean? This means that in a few months the water law may be amended to such an extent that the special act on the channel by measure will also have to be changed, because the scope of the power of Polish Waters is subject to quite widespread criticism. Today, Polish waters are a governing, controlling and earning body on this subject, which was given to them in power. This is a bad structure and will certainly be criticised in this consultation. It is also unhealthy around the investment of the channel by measuring. Let me just give you a few examples from the last period of this unhealthy atmosphere. Recently, the Marshal of Pomorskie Voivodship was asked to give an opinion on this undertaking and to place it in a specific place. He answered with the question: what's this location gonna be if there's not a set of documents? Ladies and gentlemen, the channel by measure will be implemented in a double protected area of Nature 2000. Without environmental decisions, without environmental reports, there is no documentation allowing the canal to be built by measuring. I will remind you that in 2012 the environmental decision resulted in a change of location. So if today is required of marshals, to whom part of the competence is also taken away, an opinion on this investment without environmental decisions... this question is false. And how did government officials react to the fact that the marshal asked what are the grounds for placing the channel by measuring in the New World? He was criticized that he was a mocker, that he exceeded his powers and that the politicians of the Civic Platform played with the Kremlin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have sent a letter to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation asking for proof that the citizens' platform politicians who have reservations not to build a channel by measuring, only to the procedures used, they play with the Kremlin. And what did the Minister say? Well, the minister wrote that in the newspapers he read that the governor of the Kaliningrad region, Anton Alichanow, once said that building a canal by measuring the damage to the ecological system of the Kaliningrad Gulf, and also would damage the economy of the circuit. Ladies and gentlemen, the governor has a right to say such a thing. You can't take offense to him, you just have to give the documents. And these documents are at the sea office. During the coalition, the Civic Platform (PSL) was also examined the cross-border impact of the construction of the channel by measuring. Only in one case This impact concerned Russian waters. This location is not taken into account today, it was the location in Sands. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, war, instead of insulting, must be discussed in substance. If we accepted such rhetoric that if the Russian said something, and the Pole repeated it, it is playing together with the Kremlin, then what would be, if for example. Vladimir Putin after two team matches said that this representation of Poland is weak, poorly played in the world championships? Anyone who would say that would say that after Vladimir Putin? This is ridiculous. And it's absurd to accuse politicians that, by asking the substantive things connected with the channel by measuring, they prove that they are playing with Moscow. At the committee meeting, I called this level of discussion a political rudeness, and that is how I judge it. I know it's a harsh term, but talking about a politician, about a Polish politician, that he's playing with the Kremlin, is an accusation of treason. And I still think It's a shame the Minister isn't here, Minister Witkowski. That Minister Witkowski should apologize to the politicians of the Civic Platform, especially the marshal. And just so we're clear, the Marshal of Pomeranian Voivodeship has a different opinion about building the channel by measuring it than I do. I am not defending the Marshal of the Pomeranian Voivodeship because he is from the Civic Platform, but because we do not follow the rules. At the turn of 2016 and 2017 the same marshal sent to the Deputy Prime Minister of Morawiecki Then the Deputy Prime Minister A memorandum about not building a channel by measuring, just activating, revitalizing the Scarpava River. I was the only politician who could correspond with it. There's evidence of that. Here in the Senate, this is what I was talking about, I sent this position to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, I sent it to all local government. So there's no party here, and there's no substantive discussion. And I would like government representatives, not to mention parliamentarians, to respond with counter-arguments and not with invectives. Because politics is practiced with words that don't know the meaning of words, should never become a politician. This also applies to relations with Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, I measure through the channel for several years. When I wasn't a senator, I went to Kaliningrad, I went to Klaipeda, I met with shipowners, transport gestors, Rosmorport, politicians, activists, I talked about the channel by measure, and I never met the argument that this channel harmed the Kaliningrad circuit or Russia. Few of this, at the organized conference at which I invited representatives of Rosmorport and the port management in Kaliningrad, came a clear wording: the channel by measure is beneficial for carriers and for the port in Kaliningrad. It is documented, is written in the book Why do Russian politicians now speak negatively of the channel by measuring? And how, ladies and gentlemen, are you supposed to talk about how you Russians are still provoking? What are Russian politicians supposed to say if the minister comes to Elbląg and says that Russia will influence Polish environmental environments to block the construction of the channel by measuring? What does the Russian say after such statements as the words of Deputy Minister Witkowski? What are we supposed to say and what is Russia supposed to say if the Poles closed down a small border traffic? Why is this little border traffic shut down? I know that from the perspective of Warsaw these are minor, irrelevant facts, but with these decisions you are destroying the development opportunities of the Warmia-Mazury and Elbląg voivodship. Why doesn't anyone in the PiS think about it? I am surprised that the parliamentarians of my city and my region do not think about the consequences of your actions. There's one more thing I'd like to say. One of the heads of an important institution related to transport and inland navigation I'm not gonna tell you who, because I'm afraid he won't get in trouble tomorrow. He recently said that Poland needs a law on inland ports. And this law should include which inland ports are important from the point of view of the public interest. I, too, believe that such a bill should be made. There's a law on seaports, there's no law on inland ports. I am sure that if such a law were written and ports important for the Polish state were identified, there would be a port in Elbląg among these ports. Why am I talking about this? Because the special act on the construction of the channel by measure says that the very important reason for the construction of this channel is security reasons. Whose safety? Mine? Elbląg? No. State security. Yeah, but how is this channel built? This channel ends in front of a port in Elbląg. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you build a canal for ships with a capacity of 3,000 t, but will not be able to reach the port of Elbląg? Then why do they have to go through that canal? Where will they be unloaded? What's the point of building this channel without investing in a port in Elbląg? And the rapporteur of this bill says in Elbląg that the city can modernise its own port because it is communal. 150 million PLN for modernization, for a city like Elbląg it is unimaginable money. For this city, it's 3 years off from the investment. The city can't bear such a burden, never in life. Someone who knows the financial situation of cities with a population of about 100,000 inhabitants knows that this is an effort beyond the possibilities of such a city. So when we build a channel that can't get anywhere, it's like we're building a channel. Highway without exits. I'm not even waiting for the answer to why we're doing this. But many people ask me that, those who observe the whole situation around the building of the channel by measuring. They ask directly: does the PiS government really want to build this channel? [[Mr. Senator...]] I ask the same question: does the PiS government want to build this channel? This is asked by a senator who has been fighting for the construction of this channel for several years and will support this law despite these doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u234	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the law on amending the Property Act of the premises. The text of the Act is contained in print No 838 and the report of the Commission In print No 838 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. At the meeting, the law on amending the Property Act was discussed. This law was a Parliamentary project and was adopted by the Sejm, it can be said, almost unanimously, because 425 Members were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. This law amends the Act of 20 May 2017, which is an act, inter alia. set up the National Property Resources and was a change in the Act of 24 June 1994 on the ownership of the premises. The aim of the law we are procedated is only to clarify and clarify the provisions of the Act of July 2017 and thus to remove doubts regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the Property Act. There were some problems with interpretation and the issue of a certificate which was later necessary for notarial activities or judicial activities. This was due to the fact that these records were, let's say, imprecisely made. That bill made it clearer. Let's just say there's a place and the owner wants to sort things out. All the documents were still old-fashioned today. I'm talking about the zoning plan, the building permit and the usage permit. But there were some problems when these documents, such as land-use plans, did not exist. Well, the zoning plans didn't come into play until 1995. Hence, certain doubts, doubts from the old age as to the issuing of this statement. This law, thanks to these changes, will improve the issue of these self-reliance certificates, so that all notarial and judicial activities necessary to establish a separate ownership of the premises can be carried out without obstacles. This law clearly states that the old-timer shall issue a certificate. He is to take all these steps into account. But there are also extra paragraphs in here. This applies to e.g. this provision, which I mentioned earlier, i.e. the provision on the establishment of this self-apartment by means of those materials which are available, namely the spatial planning plan, building permits, use permits. This will not apply if the building was erected before 1 January 1992 or was built on the basis of a building permit issued before that date, because at that time these permits did not function, there were no zoning plans. As far as the Senate committees are concerned, they have adopted this proposal unanimously. Three minor amendments have been made to which the current Minister has agreed. It was just a minimal, tidy, corrective adjustment. On behalf of these 2 committees, I ask that this law be adopted together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u236	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u237	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister. I'd ask you to... [[Please, we invite the Minister here.]] Maybe there, because it's hard for me to... [[We invite the Minister here to the podium.]] Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question. I ask them on behalf of 300 families living in buildings built by PKP in Warsaw, in Białołęka, whose families were promised to sell them, take ownership after a certain period of time. The buildings were built, as this law says, before 1951 or even before, in years... Probably some of the documents that were necessary at that time are no longer in the Ministry of Infrastructure, to which PKP is subject, or in the city's district offices. In any case, there are difficulties in extracting these documents and there can be no promised sale. There is a struggle between the PKP company and the city office, which demand these documents from each other. How will this case look, according to this bill? I will also point out that the buildings were built on land belonging partly to the city and partly to the State Treasury. Are you in this situation? Because there is a document in which the Białołęka district has allocated its land for perpetual use, this law will work and these people after 20 years of trying to buy the apartment will finally have the chance to buy the apartments, will these complications continue to exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u238	Yes, this bill should solve this problem. Of course, I do not know the full facts, but on the basis of this law it should be possible to solve such problems. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Excuse me, may I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u239	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u240	I understand that this requires the start of operations by the owner of these buildings, i.e. the company PKP, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Infrastructure. Because they're the ones who have to work to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u241	I understand that in this case the law... The Warsaw Capital City Office, which performs the same functions as the Starosta... I don't want to say anything arbitrary at the moment, because I don't know this particular case, but if there are any additional questions from the senator, then we are also able to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u242	Yes... Mr. Marshal, this is the last time I'm going to speak. I would very much ask for a written reply on the situation in which the residents of 3 buildings were located on a specific street in Warsaw, what opportunities they have and who should settle the formalities. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Boris-Damięcka. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the act on the management of a successful business of a natural person. The text of the Act is contained in print No 847 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 847 A and 847 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Legislative Commission on the Sejm's adoption on 7 June this year. the management law on the successful enterprise of a natural person. I'll start by saying a few words about the purpose and subject of the bill, the need for this regulation. The Act regulates the principles of the temporary management of the enterprise after the death of an entrepreneur who carried out business on his own behalf on the basis of an entry in the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity, so-called. CEIDG. The Act also sets out the rules for continuing the business carried out using such an undertaking. The essence of the regulation is the creation of a legal instrument which allows legal successors of an entrepreneur, a natural person, to take a responsible decision on the continuation of the company's activities and thus to ensure the continuity of the company's operation after the death of the trader. The aim of the Act is also to strengthen the protection of third parties' rights relating to the running of a business, including primarily counterparties, consumers, customers and employees. It can be said that this is a very necessary regulation, it fills a severe legal gap in the system, it is a regulation expected by entrepreneurs. It is important to be aware that the economic activity carried out individually by individuals is by far the most popular form of economic activity in Poland, confirmed by this, among others. Data from the REGON register. As at the end of 2016, nearly 3 million entrepreneurs were registered in the REGON register, and around 2.4 million entrepreneurs are registered in the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity. It can be said that this is the core of the Polish economy, those entrepreneurs who carry out their activities as natural persons. Until this law was passed, of course, people of this type had certain opportunities to manage their business or plan something in case of death, but it was not enough. We know that there is still much to be done in Poland in terms of legal and economic culture. The legal awareness of society is not yet sufficient. Therefore, there were also many different kinds of problems associated with such succession, with the death of the entrepreneur. It is well known that inheritance cases, inheritance cases, especially when there are conflicts in the family, extend for months, sometimes even years, when there is legal succession. Such proceedings may be carried out by a notary in principle only in the case of the consent of the persons concerned. Therefore, we now have an additional modern legal instrument that regulates such problems. As far as the most important provisions of this law are concerned, these are two basic instruments which are intended to serve the purposes of the law, namely the succession board and the succession manager. The main way to succeed will be to appoint a successor manager during the life of the entrepreneur. However, the Act also provides for the possibility of succession in the event of failure to choose a successor manager during the life of the trader. In such a case, the successor manager will be able to appoint persons entitled to act within the meaning of the Act, i.e. the spouse of the entrepreneur who is entitled to participate in the enterprise, the heir to the legal establishment, the heir to the will, the debt-claimer, if, of course, they have accepted the inheritance or the record. In addition to the issue of the appointment of a succession manager, the legislator has also addressed issues related to the cancellation and resignation of the administrator. The law also includes provisions concerning the expiry of the succession board. The act also lays down the rules for the management of the company's succession of management activities. The company in decline is a new legal institution This includes money ownership, responsibilities, responsibilities of the succession manager and responsibility for the obligations related to the running of the business in succession. In addition, the Act sets out rules for the implementation of the so-called "laws'. conservative activities prior to the establishment of the succession board, the rules for the establishment of a reduction division limited to the part covering the undertaking and the rules for the execution of civil contracts which do not expire upon the death of the trader have been clarified. The legislator also introduces the possibility of transferring to legal successors the rights and administrative obligations arising from concessions, permits, licences, permits related to the undertaking or their temporary exercise by the succession manager. Well, it does, of course. also such a very practical dimension, aims to maintain the continuity of the company with regard to the relevant powers to exercise the legal activities. I'm not going to talk about the content of this bill anymore. If there are any questions, I and the government will certainly answer them. In conclusion: as I said at the outset, this is a very modern, necessary regulation, very specialised, legal. The committee's work confirms that, too. The senacca legislators here have done good legal work in agreement with the ministers' legislators or ministry staff. We, as a committee, have adopted almost all proposed amendments of a more precise, legislative nature; they were probably 31. And we accepted it. The law is clarified, refined. We probably did not agree only to the proposal for a single amendment concerning some general reference to legislation, but it can be said that this is a technical issue. The subject of the discussion was also the question raised by the Polish Bank Association concerning certain rules on the keeping of bank accounts after the death of the entrepreneur. Here, both the Ministry and the committee did not share these doubts with the bankers. The banks also raised this to extend the vacathio legis law until 6 months. However, here we also assumed that the 3-month vacathio legis nowadays is quite sufficient. The six-month vacathio legis nowadays does not happen to us, it concerns some of the most important code regulations, but this is a specific regulation. So much for me. The committee meeting, as I say, ended with the adoption of the amendment act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The division of the committee took place on a temporary basis. I'm maintaining all the issues that you've raised, Senator Pięk. Corrigendum: there were 30 amendments. Only for one, there was no acceptance, all of which were accepted, as in the previous committee meeting. So that we ask the High Senate to adopt this law with amendments agreed with the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're Senator Czerwinski, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u248	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have raised this issue at the committee meeting and I will admit that I am not satisfied with the answer I received at the time. So I'm gonna repeat this question, I'm gonna report it one more time, keep it on the record. The question is... the executive board can be set up two ways, either by the entrepreneur himself or by his successor. Let's stop at the case of an entrepreneur himself who sets up such a board and dies. This succeeding board shall be established at the date of death of that trader, but in 2 cases where that date of death is not specified in the death certificate or when the death certificate has been recognised as deceased, that date of death is unclear, uncertain, cannot be determined, then equally certain dates may be used, namely the date of issuing the death order or the finding of the dead. And those dates are set out in the bill. The question is why these dates cannot therefore be used to establish a succession manager, as in the case of ordinary death, with a known date, with a certain date.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u249	Mr. Senator, let's remember that the entire institution of the succession board is located in a certain, so to speak, broader perspective. This means that the effects of the management are not only due to the company itself, but also to the heirs, to the contractors, to the employees, and finally to the public market. And if death occurs and there is a certain date, it is usually a direct consequence. Yes? It's just a matter of hours from the moment of death to the issue of a death certificate. Then, indeed, the institution of the succession board comes from the vending machine, the succession manager starts working within a few hours. Labour relations are maintained, contracts are maintained, etc. This is not the case with e.g. Missing persons or finding a corpse. It can be a situation that this finding of a corpse will happen e.g. After 2 days. Then theoretically... I mean, then I'd agree with the senator that this automation should be. But finding a corpse can happen, for example. after 3 months. If the doctor finds out after three or four months... If a finding occurs e.g. After these four months, and the doctor will determine that the death occurred probably two weeks ago or two and a half months ago, or three and a half months ago... Let's imagine that now they're jumping out of the vending machine with the effects of the succession board. Then we have such a situation that we maintain the relationship of work, i.e. heirs, who, for example. During these 3 months they had no opportunity to run a company, ex post pay for all employees contributions, wages, the same happens with commercial obligations, i.e. the accumulation of liabilities. And maybe this company for three or four months because it was standing still because no one had the authority to manage it, so to speak, it lost its start-up and vitality that they would decide... Besides, the heirs have the right to do so, because in this act we also give the heirs the possibility to dismiss by majority the succession manager. So they're gonna decide to cancel it, e.g. I don't want this company to continue in this situation. This heir may be e.g. A wife without a job and a minor child. Yes? Ex post falls on them the burden of several months' commitments. Yes? There's no need to be certain about getting this company straight. What's the status of the employees? They also learn after 3 or 4 months that they actually still have employment relations with this company, and maybe they have already established new employment relationships at that time. It's the same with contractors. Unfortunately, we fall into such a trap of legal uncertainty for many people and perhaps burden them disproportionately in relation to their will. So where this date is really sure or close, there the will of the heir should be automatically, so to speak, in motion, in the game. Yes? But where... However, we must realise that this period can be much longer. I'm afraid that's when too much risk is imposed on the heirs. So because of that... After all, we are not ruling out the succession board here, we are simply saying that, in this situation, the will to continue the company is passed on to the heirs themselves. Yes? So then, after these 3 months, they have another 2 months to think about and yet to appoint this succession manager. But I'm afraid we could be dealing with situations that are not necessarily desirable from the social, family side, if there were an ex post effect, such a 3-month retroactive effect. [[May I, Mr. Marshal? I'd just like to ask the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u250	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u251	Well, it's clear now, but that would mean that the passage of time is decisive here. Wouldn't it be better to include in the bill a date by which the successful manager, previously appointed by the entrepreneur, could be maintained and above that time Only for heirs... Why am I talking about this? Please note, Minister, that you yourself fell into a trap. The example you gave The death certificate, which states that death occurred two weeks ago, with a strict date, shows... Plus, we're getting into those repercussions you were talking about. And then it is possible to establish a manager, the one previously appointed by the entrepreneur. Don't you... About time here. It was understandable. You were convincing. It is not appropriate, instead of a generic indication, when a manager cannot be established, to indicate the expiry of the period from which it cannot be done, for example. Some relationships can be too far advanced, unfavorable for successors? Think about it. I don't want to make any amendments here, but I'm just pointing out that there may be some problems that you mentioned. If, for example, The death certificate contains a certain date of death, but late, that is to say, counted from the time the information was made that the man died...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u252	It's just a question of whether we can give one term rigid, permanent, relating to all kinds of companies. In the case, I don't know, a hotel company may be a week's time, and in the case of a company that trades fast-paced goods, even 3 days will be too long. I think yesterday, when we talked about it, A representative of the notary association also took part in this discussion about the fact that if a body is found after a long period of time, there is hardly any practice that the date of a certain day's death is entered, but rather the date of finding a corpse is entered, or... Well, rather the date of finding a corpse. From what I remember yesterday... Excuse me, I'll reach for the notes... I'm sorry, but just in case... It seems to me that the main thesis or conclusion of this discussion yesterday was that this is rather the date of discovery. We do not reduce, not limited here the possibility of setting up a board. We're just talking about how this board is set up, whether he's jumping out of the vending machine, whether he's being set up by the heirs. So that the generic rather than the casuistic approach seems safer from the point of view of marketing. Casuistics carries the risk that... if we create a very casuistic recipe, it will turn out that there are four other situations within it. Now I'm quite abstract, I'm sorry. I promise we'll think about it again, but at this point, we think the death certificate with a certain date of death... This is the situation where automation should take place. In other situations, I would leave the heirs the opportunity to decide on a successful management. Thank you for your attention. If we hadn't changed... I promise you, I've made a commitment to monitor that there are no such situations as these that call for some kind of correction. At this point, I think it's kind of a safer solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u253	Since there are no further questions, thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Czelej made his speech in the minutes. I didn't read it at the previous point, which is point fourteen, but Senator Czelej and Senator Łuczak reported their votes in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would remind the senators that items 16 to 30 on the first agenda have already been considered. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Assembly Law. Let me remind you that the bill was filed by a group of senators. It is included in print No 754, and the committee report In print No 754 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Alexander Swed, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u254	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which on 6 June dealt with a proposal to amend the Act on the Assembly of Senators of the Civic Platform at first reading. To begin with, I would like to remind you that as early as December 2016, as a higher chamber, we were engaged in the amendment of the Law on Assembly Law. The new law then introduced a new category of conventions, or cyclical assemblies. The provisions adopted were intended to enable the voivode to request the approval of cyclical gatherings if the gatherings were organised by the same organizer in the same place or on the same route at least 4 times a year according to the timetable drawn up or at least once a year on national and national holidays, and such events took place during the last 3 years, although not in the form of assemblies and aimed in particular at celebrating important and important events in the history of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the rules for determining the priority of proposals for the organisation of 2 or more assemblies have been modified at the same time and at least partially in the same place. The Act determines that meetings organised by public authorities take precedence over the place and time before other meetings organised on the basis and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Meetings. This amendment was adopted by the Senate on 7 December 2016. The current draft amendment of the Act aims to restore the legal status of the Law in force prior to the entry into force of the Law amending the Law on Assembly Law of 13 December 2016. It is expected to remove the provisions on cyclical assembly from the Act, i.e. Chapter 3a and, consequently, Article. Point 14 (4) and the corresponding modification of Article. 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 26.28 of the Act. This amendment was presented by Senator Grażyna Sztark at the meeting of the Joint Committee. During the discussion, the Senators of the applicant presented a justification for the proposed amendment and criticised the previous amendment of the Act and the introduction of cyclical assemblies. They also referred to the provisions of the Constitution and some of the opinions put forward. I would like to quote here a passage from the ministry's opinion, which is responsible for our security. In its opinion of 16 May 2018, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs refers to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which took place in this case. The Court, in its judgment of 16 March 2016, the signature of the act Kp 1/17, states that the rules on cyclical gatherings are compatible with the Constitution. I'll quote it. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out, inter alia, that the purpose of the solution was to implement the State's obligation to ensure that everyone could exercise that freedom freely. The contested regulation does not affect the essence of freedom of assembly, but harmonises the mutual exercise of freedom of assembly with other freedoms and human rights, with the aim of safeguarding public order and the realization of the common good. The Constitutional Tribunal also pointed out that the introduction of cyclical assembly institutions is a new, additional way of defining a legal framework for the implementation of freedom of assembly. The different treatment of cyclical gatherings in the Law on Assembly Law is therefore acceptable. In view of the relatively short duration of the new solutions, about a year, the lack of signals implying the need to restore the previous state and the failure of the project's authors to demonstrate such necessity in the assessment of the MSWiA, it does not seem advisable to amend the proposed amendment of the bill amending the Law on Assembly. The same arguments concerning the relatively short duration of the new solutions and the need for a longer period of time for a realistic assessment of their functioning appear in the opinions of most voivods submitted for this amendment. Another issue, which was discussed lively at the committee meeting and criticised by the applicants, was the principle arising from the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which is the question of keeping a distance of 100 m between assemblies. Let me quote here the opinion of the Opole Voivodeship, which proposes to maintain this provision. Used in art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 right of assembly, in particular at a distance of less than 100 m between assemblies, is not an undefined return, since the minimum distance between the organized assemblies is indicated. In addition, it should be noted that it is more important if this article is applied to determine whether it is possible to organise assemblies at least in the same place and time in such a way that their course does not endanger the life or health of people or property in significant sizes. Thus, this principle makes it possible for law enforcement services to better ensure security and that there is no, and there will be no, blocking assemblies and demonstrations by their opponents. Everyone will be able to express their views, but within 100 m of the already notified manifestation. In view of these arguments, at the meeting of the Joint Committee, a request was made by me to reject the proposed amendment. It was supported by a majority of 14 votes in favour, with 8 votes against. No minority request has been reported either. Therefore, on behalf of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I request that the proposed amendment to the Law on Assembly be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Grażyna Sztark to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see anyone willing... [[I do.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u256	Yesterday, Mr. Marshal, they didn't hear us, and today they can't see us anymore. I don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. [[Both.]] [[Both.]] [[It's hard not to notice you, Senator.]] Do I have to return my I.D. or my Senator's card? [[No, just ask the questions.]] ...and ask two questions. You have used, Senator rapporteur, the opposite argument, the opinion of the voivode on 100 m, and I am only focusing on this problem. Who says there's some transparency here, a precise definition. But isn't that an argument contrary to the very essence of the convention, which is that these demonstrations usually talk to each other, conduct dialogue, sometimes lush, sensitive? That's one argument for cutting those 100 meters short. Second argument. Sir, there are demonstrations that come together for the same purpose, although everyone with a different subjectivity. And finally: does this mean that, for example. Is there going to be a demonstration in a small town or is there going to be a demonstration in a small neighborhood? Well, it's 100 meters away. It's already a county. Well, yeah, that voivode. And you emphasized that. He's speaking. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u257	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u258	Mr. Senator, I think you're exaggerating the distance of 100 meters. I consider here, for example. The market in the city, the town. Well, these 100 meters are really not the next county, but 100 meters is from one end to the other end of the market. So, in my opinion, you exaggerate the distance of 100 meters.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u259	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u260	So you considered this argument to be valid, that you forgot the rapporteur about the first argument, that demonstrations are not so much against someone as they are against someone, so they join together, or protest against each other, against this argument. This is freedom of voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u261	I believe, first of all, that the distance of 100 m ensures safety for all manifestors, both in manifestation and in counter-manifestation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u262	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. [[They're ……]] [[The voice from the room: Well, no, well, some...]] Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u263	Thank you very much. It was during this discussion that we were talking about a distance of 100 m. Inaccuracies are recorded there: in particular at a distance of less than 100 m between assemblies. Using such undefined phrases in the Act has such consequences that the police can interpret it differently. Therefore, my question is: do you not think that such a law should already provide for certain, so to speak, specific and strict wording? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u264	Well, there are dozens of voivodship opinions cited here, and in this respect there were no complaints, no complaints. In the case of those cyclical gatherings that were organized, this distance did not cause any inconsistencies. I even mentioned here in the report the opinion of the Opole voivode, who himself stated as a practice in all this, that this does not create major obstacles and that there is no inaccuracies here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u265	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u266	Dear Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask... You used the word "security." Well, this is a very important thing. And you said that's why this bill was introduced, these changes, so widely criticised in society. Tell me the dangers you're talking about, the dangers you've been facing. Name these threats of public order, because I don't recall, for example. under the rule of the Civic Platform, for this reason there was some exceptional danger. Please also tell us the dangers It was already under your rule, please replace it. Perhaps you also know the judgments of the courts that have already been brought into such situations of disorderly conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u267	Let me put it this way: this issue was not discussed so vividly at the committee meeting, it was only criticism from the applicants. Maybe from this angle... As far as the case is concerned, I'll say I don't know them. But I'm going to go back to that distance of 100 meters and that inaccuracies. When it comes to this distance of 100 m, it is known that it can not be smaller, but it can be larger. Sometimes terrain conditions also cause that it cannot be exactly a distance of 100 m. Entering an exact distance of 100 m into the law makes it difficult to set these 100 m. If 100 m from a given manifestation e.g. there is a building, there is no other possibility, it must be e.g. 110 m. So I don't think there's any inaccuracies here. And that's what the voivods showed, too. About the dangers... You know, if there's a manifestation and a counter-manifestation that's going to take place in exactly the same place, it's causing certain dangers. I did not refer to specific examples here. And I'm not talking about governments here, whether it's the Civic Platform or the Law and Justice Platform. It's just that there's a rule that if there's a manifestation and a countermanifestation, there might be some danger. Public services even indicate that this distance of 100 m offers some comfort in terms of safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u268	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u269	About the answer... I understand that this is your answer, but I think you understand that it's quite outrageous when you answer in this way. You're rejecting a good project, Senator Shark, talking about some dangers, and you can't even name them. I'm talking about your political formation. I'm just amazed because you voted against this project. I'm amazed. I'd like to... Second question. Have you ever considered that, since they have ceased to be so-called? Smolensk monthlys, maybe this recipe is completely unnecessary, and maybe that's why it's worth changing your mind? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u270	The senator here gives his view of the matter, but our view is different. In my opinion, this limit of 100 m does not cause someone to manifest. It can manifest, can counter-manifesto, only 100 meters away. The mere limitation of cyclical gatherings only until the month is also a certain overinterpretation, Senator, because many public holidays on November 11th, 3rd May It also takes place as a cyclical assembly. [[Voice from the room: August 15th.]] [[What about God's Body?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u271	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One piece of information. Well, it is not that the issue of months is the only issue connected with this law, because my humble person was granted permission to organize cyclical conventions on the Mount of St. Anna on 3 May, related to the anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. And now I answer the question, although I shouldn't, but the clue... Well, before that, when there were no such regulations, then... [[Mr. Marshal, we're asking questions...]] [[I'm sorry, but I think that's supposed to be a question, not talking to me. As you wish to discuss, please...]] [[This isn't a discussion.]] The question will be at the end. Don't be impatient. [[There'll be a discussion in a minute.]] Anger of beauty hurts. Take it easy. I'm still... [[You too.]] Don't be nervous. [[The senator is safe because she's a beautiful woman.]] No, it's okay. [[Unlike Senator Czerwiński.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out here that when I organized these celebrations a dozen years ago, And I'm not gonna tell you whose time it was in the political sense. It was an assault, even physical, of certain overgrown people, when these celebrations were honorably and reverentially celebrated. [[November 11th...]] I have a logical question for the rapporteur. That is, Senator, when it is more precisely defined, when the degree of underdefinition is greater, when the law only refers to the same place and time as the applicants try to leave here, or when it is referred to the same place and time and distance of not less than 100 m between manifestations? When are the conditions more precise?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u273	Mr. Senator, it is known that this example and what is now, these records that we have in the bill, that is, these 100 m, it is more specific, it better specify the conditions for organising another manifestation or counter-manifestation. And as for the example that the senator was giving, he was also considered at the committee meeting. Then the senator gave an example of a cyclical assembly that was organized by your senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u274	Thank you. I don't see any more questions to ask. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: No, thank you.]] No. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[There isn't.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Shark was the first to speak. [[Anne, take...]] [['Cause I'm gonna ban you. 100 meters will be...]] [[For what?]] [[...if it's cyclical.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, indeed, we have presented a proposal to return to the previous legal status of the Assembly Act, because we believe that so far the law, which was said to remind me of That we will let her live, see how she works and return to her, to evaluate her, to help only and only in the Smolensk monthlys, which, as a friend said here, were suspended and are to be held once a year. At the same time, I would like to tell you that in the judgment of the Warsaw court the Smolensk monthlys were considered private meetings, not public meetings. According to the police... Excuse me. According to the court, these may not be public meetings because, due to the railroads and police protection set up on the route, they are not available to all. The meeting place should be accessible to anonymous persons. Introduction can't be in favor of an invitation, because that's when it turns into a private meeting. [[It's generally available.]] I'm calling in the court's reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I talking about this? Democracy hasn't been back that long, and we haven't had it that long since 1989. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not recall the fact that the assemblies, whatever they may be, give rise to the introduction of provisions tightening up this convention bill. Let me remind you that it was the introduction of this law that tightened up and... I will remind you of the paintings of November 11, which certainly did not glorify our country. But first things first. If we are talking here about the right to assembly, let me remind you that this is the basic guarantee resulting from the article. 57 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which speaks about freedom of speech and assembly. And this is included as a fundamental principle, the principle of rights acquired in our hard work. As regards the amendment which was adopted at the meeting of the Polish Parliament, I will remind you of this. It was adopted, nomen omen, 13 December 2016. You can say that, so to speak, this date is not a glorious date. On the other hand, the cyclical assembly regulations entered into force on 2 April 2017. This causes a number of disadvantages and limits the opportunities for peaceful assembly. This has been repeatedly emphasised in opinions not only by constitutionalists but also by other lawyers and non-governmental organisations operating in the area of widely understood civil rights and freedoms. According to the Ombudsman, and not only to him, the solutions proposed by the law constitute a restriction on the freedom of public assembly and the associated freedom of expression in a manner which cannot be considered necessary and necessary in a democratic state of law and therefore do not meet the conditions of the Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 constitutions, as well as among others. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I would also like to remind you that according to the article. 26d Act on the basis of one decision to agree to the regular assembly may take place within a period of not more than 3 years from the first of the assembly cycle, but equally... I refer here to Senator Czerwinski's statement. I can safely say that no voivode, whether it's Opole or any other, once the political situation has changed... I don't think you've been refused, even though this isn't a cyclical assembly. I don't think anyone's gonna refuse you permission to hold a convention like this. Unfortunately, the introduction of these provisions has led you, for the first time, to a significant reduction in these freedoms. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, if you don't mind... Above all, this is demonstrated by a large number of decisions that prohibit the convention from being held near other conventions. In 9 cases this was the case for the Smolensk monthly, and in 5 cases of meetings convened in the area of the Passage of the Independence March. The compulsory bans were issued only in the case of meetings convened in the manner described in Chapter 2 of the Law on Assembly Law, i.e. in connection with the cyclical assembly. The scale of the problem is also demonstrated by the number of replacement regulations of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, following the introduction of a separate formula for the cyclical assembly, issued 36 replacement orders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the scale of the refusals concerning the assemblies, whose willingness the organizers submitted six days earlier in writing to organize them. I would like to say to you that the result of this law is unfortunately also the fact that the organizers, as well as the president of the capital city of Warsaw, who was permanently accused by the Mazowieckie voivode of failure to issue a decision to ban non-cyclical gatherings, appealed against the decision of the voivode to the court. In the District Court in Warsaw and in the Appeals Court in Warsaw, a uniform legal line has been established, apart from two decisions, proving that for the assemblies convened in the so-called. The legislator does not provide for a form for the prohibition of this assembly to be simplified. In total, 76 such proceedings were pending before common courts, some of which had not yet been completed. Despite the clear position of the courts of the Mazowieckie voivodship from the beginning, only one replacement order was issued within a time limit allowing the use of the judicial appeal procedure. The point is that when the hearing took place, the assembly date had already passed, and although members or those wishing to organize the assembly were in law, they could not exercise that right. I would also like to say that in 2017 the president of the capital city of Warsaw based on art. 14 of this law issued 14 decisions prohibiting conventions. These included 9 conventions convened in the area of Krakowskie Przedmieście Street... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Quiet, please.]] ...in Warsaw during the months of Smolensk and 5 called on the site or on the route of march of the March of Independence. All the decisions were made in respect of the assemblies submitted to the office, or regular assemblies, which were submitted six days before the date of the convention. And something to finish. After the amendment of the Mazowiecka Voivodeship Act, he issued three decisions concerning cyclical gatherings, I am talking about Warsaw: on the March of Independence ONR and Youth of All Poland; on the march related to the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising ONR and Youth of All Poland... Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide, this law is not intended for other organizations for the All-Polish Youth and for the ONR. According to the new wording of the Act, the president of the capital city of Warsaw had to issue 14 So it's not so cool that anyone can... No one else can. In total, 50 organizers have been banned since the amendment for a year. I would like to point out that in previous years such bans were issued once or twice, and now as many as 50 refusals have been received. In view of the new situation, 76 cases were brought to court, but, as I said, unfortunately the judgments of the court were given after the assembly dates and these conventions could not be held. And to conclude, Mrs. Marshal... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Time, Senator.]] Yes, Mrs. Marshal, just to conclude... Therefore, I appeal to you, the State, I really strongly appeal: this is not necessary. As a result, we will simply have to put those attending these conventions in prison. Do we need martyrs? Fines will be imposed, and fine penalties, as I know life, will not be paid, therefore prisons will be served. Really, I appeal to you and bow to all of you from Law and Justice. Let us be moderate and let us free ourselves from this terrible bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u276	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the arguments were presented by the applicant of the project, the representative of the applicants. I would like to emphasise, ladies and gentlemen, This, of course, has already been mentioned. First of all, that law is very important, if not essential, civil and constitutional rights, i.e. the right to assembly may be restricted, but only in situations where there is real danger or... After all, there are legal measures in a situation where such a danger arises, after all, the assembly can be resolved. So it can't be that some potential threat causes a reduction. Or even deprivation, here we're dealing with deprivation. The right to assembly. It wasn't a coincidence that the data was quoted. Well, it can't be that way, ladies and gentlemen, that the power of some restricts the same constitutional right to others, which has not yet been. The police are here to ensure order. There are, once again, legal instruments that allow the assembly to be dissolved, the organizers to be held accountable, etc. There are legal instruments. And denying the possibility of counter-manufacturing... That's what it's all about, to show... This is also the right to assembly, the right to counter-manufacturing in a given place is the right to assembly. The point is that citizens can express their views, show that they do not agree with those protesters expressing their will. That's the whole point of showing it. But it can't, of course, be a physical confrontation. If this ever happened, then... Like I said, there's police, there's legal measures. And these cyclical gatherings, so-called. cyclical gatherings are quite a product of fantasy, no, not legal. Ladies and gentlemen, there's always been a national holiday. There are separate regulations for them, and that is quite clear. It's an anniversary holiday. Of course. Well, but, ladies and gentlemen, here we are dealing with a situation where the reason for the introduction of what we are talking about was the organisation, as it turns out, of private gatherings, i.e. not assemblies within the meaning of the Constitution. Because everyone has the right to enter an assembly, one way or the other, not with a pass, not that you can't cross a barrier. What's this? This is a free country? This is respect for the Constitution? Assembly rights? There can't be a situation where you say at least 100 meters. Because if the place where the demonstration takes place doesn't have a larger area, then what? It means you can't organize... There's supposed to be a distance that will allow these conventions not to touch each other. And this is the role of the police, protecting these assemblies. And that's it. That's just it. That's why we're appealing... Because we're surprised there are external charges when it comes to breaking the rule of law. Well, here's the situation. Breaking the right to assembly, breaking the constitution is breaking the rule of law. And what, you don't see it? Can't you see that city hall has to refuse so many convention organizations, which hasn't been there so far? Is this a normal situation? Is this the implementation of fundamental constitutional law? That is why we absolutely support this, ladies and gentlemen, what you have introduced... Out of a lot of bullshit, back off from this complete bullshit, too. I think it'll also be a good signal not only for the public, but also for the outside. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u278	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u279	Nearby there is an exhibition of Polish inventions, i.e. inventions, whose authors are Poles. This exhibition should be attended by the Act on cyclical gatherings, because it is our Polish invention, and basically your invention, Dear Senators of the PiS. In his previous term of office, the president proposed such a solution that they could not touch each other. Two demonstrations. So when there's a danger of two demonstrations coming into contact, one can be banned or asked to be removed. I remember those protests on the part of Law and Justice. What's the difference in comparing this amendment to the cyclical assembly bill? Well, the fact that this amendment to the bill went much further, if there is a cyclical assembly, that is, our native invention, then no demonstration can be nearby, must be pushed away to the right distance. Why did you protest then? And in this term of office, what did you do? Why? What happened? That's when you were in opposition. And under opposition suggestions, the president pulled out of it. And now, in this term, you're in charge. That's the difference. The possibility of demonstration is one of the main achievements of democratic Poland and the rule of law after 1989. Possibility of demonstration, right to demonstration is a law that directly affects every citizen. Yes, directly to every citizen. This is provided by the constitution. So in introducing this invention, of course, you have prepared yourself a comfortable situation, because in your eyes you will not see anyone who has a different opinion, who has a voice of opposition, who has different views. And then you can imagine that everyone thinks the same thing and that you're right that you were right, and you can also think that you're right. Of course, it was a bill designed to block counter-demonstrations during the Smolensk months. I don't think it was a good thing... I mean. I didn't participate in these counter-demonstrations because I thought that if someone wanted to grieve like this, they had the right. But others thought otherwise, others had a different approach and had a right to do so. It was not pleasant for anyone, also for those who organized these months of Smolensk, it was of course not pleasant. However, people who operate in the public sphere need to know that not only will their pleasant words be met, that their words of criticism, reprimands, sometimes even offensive cries, are met. And that's what we've all experienced. So? Should it be said that such events should be Penalized? At the moment, these cyclical gatherings serve only the extreme right, serving the ONR. We see this on 11 November when under patriotic slogans there are banners about white race, white power, aggression towards others, hatred. You want to protect it? There you go. But you take responsibility. For what was, but also for what was going to happen. This wave's getting bigger. This wave of racism, hatred and anti-Semitism. [[Oh, dear!]] [[Applause]] [[Oh, come on.]] The situation is even more bizarre because those who protest against cyclical gatherings believe that this limits their freedom That is what they think, and rightly so, because it limits the freedom of others, the possibility of organizing rallies, demonstrations, showing their moral, political or other views, and is sent to the courts from the code of offenses. There are, of course, matters that the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice take much more seriously, but most of them are charged with the 1970 Code of Offences. Do you know that this code is being applied? [[Art. 52.]] Yeah, the art charges. 52 talking about illegal... et cetera, et cetera. Also, from time to time, charges for littering were made because someone threw a flyer or posted a poster. Not everyone forgot what it was like. From this article. 52 many people in the years of the Polish People's Republic were convicted, many people, many of my friends, and I also got 3 weeks in custody from the article. 52. It's time to change that because it's embarrassing. You're doing cyclical gatherings, and you're applying art. 52 of the 1970 Code of Offences But some people, some people, are especially treated. Władysław Frasyniuk has been charged with an active assault on an officer, which means he is to be tried under the criminal code. Isn't that a shame? It's a shame you're doing this kind of thing. Władysław Frasyniuk beat up six cops? Minister, these practices bring shame not only to you but also to Poland. It's a shame you didn't protest that you didn't see it. It's also a pity that another member of the government, who is no longer a member of the government, hasn't seen it either. You were in the Independent Student Association. And what's left of it? After all, you should tell your PIS colleagues that this is not a good solution. [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] You should also propose that we move away from the 1970 misdemeanor code. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u280	Thank you very much. There you go. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal called me, so here I am. I have a slightly different reflection on all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to demonstrate, also to publicly demonstrate your views, expressing your opinion is indeed one of the fundamental rights that should be held in democracy and which each of us has in Poland. But this law is conditioned by other rights, above all by the right to security. There is no doubt that the right to demonstrate in a situation where this demonstration is dangerous is illusory. There is no doubt that such a restriction is a fundamental restriction. We have the right to demonstrate safely. It must be guaranteed. The point is that demonstration is a real law, not just a facade law. It's the right to demonstrate without being jerk-off... [[That's it.]] ...without being insulted... [[No hitting.]] ...and without being humiliated. [[Exactly.]] Unfortunately, it's happened, and it's probably still happening. Indeed, I, like Mr. Marshal, have experience in old times, and I recall such situations when we demonstrated when we exercised our constitutional right to demonstrate, but it was dangerous. [[It was a fictional constitution.]] I remember very well the demonstrations on 11 November before the tomb of the Unknown Soldier in the 1970s. I also remember the big demonstration in Warsaw on May 3, 1982. To this day, there are still places that I feel after that demonstration. Unfortunately, I also remember a demonstration a few years ago, from when you were in charge of the formation that you represent the marshal. Probably in 2014 I went to the Independence March with a baby and rubber bullets whispered over my head. I was really scared, and I was afraid something was gonna happen to us. This was not the right situation, even though the march was peaceful and none of those who demonstrated wanted to do anything wrong. We were shot with rubber bullets. That's what happened. I have such experiences. These are very bad experiences. These are experiences that, on the one hand, are from the time... In all these times, we were formally entitled to the right to demonstrate, but the demonstration was simply dangerous. I don't want that to happen. I think that recalling these times of the Polish People's Republic and the various sanctions that we have They've met me because of it, too. It's inappropriate. We live in other times and in a meaningful conversation, we should see proportions, we should know proportions. It's really different. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Unfortunately, we are today, in present times, witnessing abuse of the right to demonstrate in a situation where others want to exercise this right in the way they are entitled to. This obstruction is not simply a demonstration of It seems quite natural that there should be some restrictions in this regard, for the rights of some end where the rights of others begin. And it needs to be reconciled, calmly. And I think that's the situation. I also think we can't abstract ourselves from the time we live in. We live in times where there are just a lot of different threats where there are lots of people, where there's crowds, where there's confusion. So far nothing terrible has happened in Poland, but unfortunately it has happened in many other countries. People are increasingly aware that wherever there are many people at once, the situation is simply potentially dangerous. And I think that by looking responsibly at what is also happening in our country, making sure that everyone has the right to express, also publicly, also during demonstrations, their political, social or religious views... For we are also talking about religious gatherings, such as the procession for God's Body. Even such cases were that the faithful were hindered in their performance, in their normal participation in this religious ceremony. Someone demonstrated their beliefs in such a way that they simply insulted those who followed the Lord Jesus on the street. It all has one more dimension, and I think we need to be aware of that in a responsible way. The point is that this confusion can happen often without the intentions of those who do it. It's bad luck. Should we wait for this? I'm pretty sure it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u282	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I hope I don't use all five minutes, but as usual during the discussion among people who've had a bit of a war experience... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz spoke of famous art. 52 and 53 crimes code, which it is time to change. And that's where I'd start. This article. 52 puts on a strict... It's three months in jail or a fine. I'm talking about it, Minister, because... after I've been arrested, I would never pay a fine. Of course, if I was arrested for having a white rose or for yelling "Walęsa"!... such cases happen. People are being written down, harassed at the workplace, at home. Minister, we live in a certain place and it's the 21st century. It's high time we separated by a big line of those years that were, years were rightfully past, when the police had no right or right to... Well, she had no right, but she chased us and put us in jail. Mr. Marshal three weeks, and I spent three months in prison for demonstrating for participating in an illegal demonstration. And I never in my life would want those times to come back. But these times... these situations, as we can see, are happening. Minister, November 11th took place here in Warsaw, a great march. There were people who demonstrated peacefully, but there were people who spit, beat, shit, set fire to their flares, burned their hair, and so on. There was an awful lot of aggression. If yesterday we adopted amendments to a law that eliminates such cases, so as not to popularize Nazism, then for this purpose we should introduce bans. And that's why I told you that these powers or records in the bill are giving the ONR and other organizations, the ones that were manifesting... I'm not talking about putting a ban on them, no. But that's what the police are for, to keep an eye on everyone in public. Not the white rose, not the shouts of the Wałęsa, not because people are standing 10 meters away and with the white rose... It's aggressive, Minister. And he wakes up, and he wakes up. My Bishop Zadarko recently protested the use of places of religious worship, Jasna Góra, by the Nazis. It was Bishop Zadarko who made such an appeal, not us. It is also the Church's view, because it remembers events that have already taken place. They know that only toughening and aggression can cause war between us. A war between us. Minister, if the first person goes to prison, the next person... And do you remember those events when young people, anti-fascists, stood up against fascists, and those screams when these two demonstrations collided? Plus, there's only one step, and there's no law that's gonna help. It's not the laws that regulate, it's really not the laws that regulate anything here, it's the aggression. Therefore, I repeat and appeal again. I think we're trying to avoid... Do you remember the shouts of the Nazis, the police of one coalition? Do you want a shout like that? Because I don't want to. I don't want to. The police have now referred the case to the court against Frasiniuk for battery. Well, listen, ladies and gentlemen, if there's a hearing, it's gonna be the beginning of an end. That's why I'm turning again... I'm really sorry about the emotion, but it's really exciting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you once again to consider whether this law is really necessary and for what it is necessary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u284	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we are dealing here, at least in a few speeches, with some total hypocrisy. We say we want to protect, for example. Religious people who pray, you've been talking about some cases... Please state the details. There may have been cases of disrupting religious events, but that's what the police are doing to protect these kinds of events. It's protected by law, and there's never been any special problems with it. Well, maybe now we've got problems like this. Just think about why. Maybe there are problems now, because I don't remember having problems like this before. For years, even for communes, religious manifestations were organized, also on the Mount of St. Anna, Mr. Senator. I don't know why you're out there on a regular basis... Well, we used to, we wouldn't be there, and there would be regular parties there, and there wouldn't have to be sanctioning it, just people getting together, always getting together. And they're gonna get together. There's no need for such a bill, so harmful. And the other thing. Senator Radziwiłł mentioned the danger he felt because the rubber bullets shook over his head in 2015. What you're saying is... think about it. [[Voice from the room: When?]] In 2014 the Council Think about who brought this danger. Is that the police? Is that what you think? And I'll tell you, they've been brought in by the demo guys. I, too, have my personal experience of going to the Polonia Theatre, sir, and indeed as a result of demonstrations, car burning, etc. Things have been amazing. Where are these people now, why aren't they demonstrating? Why are they now peacefully demonstrating? Because these are people who are connected to you, with your political formation. They're not protesting the current power, and that's why they've begun to behave properly. Well, I'm paying attention. And yet we have given them the right to protection forever. That's what it looks like. What you're saying is just hypocritical. Who are you protecting? Those women who lie down with those white roses... Are you protecting those women from the people who go there, in the bosoms, shaved? Is that what this is about? And you say we shouldn't rely on these communist laws. But they still apply, I draw your attention. People, for example. They burn candles in court and are convicted of old communist laws. That's what you guys do, change it. And you're introducing laws to the Smolensk demonstrations, the monthlys, which, as it turns out, were illegal. They were private parties. PLN 4.5 million per year That's how much money was going for it. Thousands of policemen pulled from all over the voivodship and from Poland protected these months. That's what it was for. So don't say it's necessary, and don't pretend. It's just not necessary, and it wasn't necessary. Of course, safety is important. But nothing like that happened, you didn't give any examples to make it happen, it was, you know, the comfort of one demonstration. And it's said that... I wonder what you'd say to those people out there with a picket line on the Stachowiak case that you don't want to deal with here. You guys say no at all, not even to something... you refuse to discuss it. People are standing there protesting, and then they're dragged into court. Think about it, think about what you're doing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u286	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, well, I was called for answers. Maybe first about the content of the project itself, because it's illogical at some point. If, as I understand it, you want to see that there is no freedom in determining or banning the manifestations that are to take place at the same place and time, then the more clear and measurable the criteria are, the less recognition of the authorities, the less discretion of the authorities. If it is written, as in your project, that the point is that the 2 meetings are to be held at the same place and time, and there are no criteria, then the office can interpret it freely. Maybe the same time... About two moments away from each other by half an hour can say that this is the same time. It's the same with the place. And if there's at least one criterion for the location... Well, it's logical. 100 m is such a distance that one manifestation does not affect the other, i.e. participants of one manifestation cannot affect the rights of the participants of the second manifestation. [[The law of influence...]] Let's go. So this 100 m makes it impossible for other people to interrupt the manifestation or assembly, i.e. abuse of their rights in order to destroy the rights of another person. It's simple: my law ends where the other person's law begins. That's how it's supposed to be, we're all equal to the law. Those who want to abuse their rights in order to prevent manifesting, gathering others, should not be encouraged to do so, on the contrary, should be prevented from doing so. That's what this bill and these 100 meters are for. cyclical assemblies, the second leitmotiv, which interferes with this law. Well, who's gonna bother the people of your group for three years to celebrate a national celebration and then go on a cyclical assembly? You have the same rights. Why are you denying this right to others? Ladies and gentlemen, how could I have known three years ago, when you were still in charge, that there would be an opportunity to speak about organizing a cyclical assembly, what did I ask for? How could I have known that? Of course I couldn't. On the contrary, the legislator has given to those who regularly worship national, national ceremonies, the possibility of worshiping these ceremonies peacefully, unattacked by other people, those who have bad intentions, who want to hinder them. The question is, when the right to assembly is actually violated, of course, to legal assemblies. They can actually interrupt two groups of people. The first is those who are the apparatus of repression, such as the police. Well, it may not be repression, but it's okay if they interrupt, that's when they act as an apparatus of repression. How did it happen that the fully democratic power of the Civic Platform (PSL) fired rubber bullets at workers? [[When?]] And then there was full democracy in Poland. And now there's a restriction on democracy, and somehow we don't hear a whisper of rubber bullets. [[Voice from the room: He was...]] Anybody hear that? [[No, there's love, there's friendship.]] Then give an example. Very good, no. That's what you're turning your ideas upside down. Democracy, we shoot with smooth-bore weapons. No democracy You can do anything, you can dig into barriers, you can interfere with the legislative process. Then it's a lack of democracy. But when the workers come out and demonstrate their rights and we shoot them with rubber bullets, it is pure democracy, the essence of democracy in your execution. [[There's no...]] Ladies and gentlemen, march November 11th. From what I've seen, because I didn't take part in this march, then I attended the local celebrations... I saw at the head of this march one slogan: "We want God." That was the main password of the march. [[Yeah, right!]] And who cares about that password? Well, to those who later turned the patriots into fascists, xenophobia, etc., etc., etc. Go on like this, 300,000 people will come to the next march and you will insult them by calling them fascists. Take over this poetry, in quotes, the European Union, which is unable to cope with itself. Well, that's just the way it is. There came those who feel patriotic, feel proud of their country, their nation, and are proud of being Poles. And they were going under the motto "We want God." It's a very simple password. [[And the others aren't...]] They're all patriots, of course they are, everyone can demonstrate patriotism in their own way. [[100 yards away.]] In his own way, in his own way. [[But it's 100 yards away.]] [[Swastika.]] [[Quiet, please.]] All right. Code of Offences, 1971. It was valid until 2008, then, in the time of the PO-PSL, it ceased to apply and now it is again in force. What have you guys been doing for eight years? Now you're upset with the code of offenses? They saw the eyeballs that made it, they should have lifted it. [[It wasn't used.]] [[Of course, dead law.]] It wasn't used, was it? Of course, instead of bringing people to trial, you just tried to bring justice: smooth-bore weapons and hey, we fire. That's how you applied the misdemeanor code. [[The dead guy's been in a lot of trouble.]] No, tell that to those who had their eyes blown out like one newspaper editor. By the way, why did the storms end during the protest of November 11th? Because there's another Home Secretary. Mr. Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, I believe, had the guard booth burned down. Was it or wasn't it? Or did your people say it wasn't true at the time of the eavesdropping dinner? [[That's what you think.]] And your people who sleep over dinners and dinners. And finally, the last question, probably the most appalling one. Ladies and gentlemen, what's it like? Are there people and superhumans in Poland? Because as far as I know, even an MP can be prosecuted if he gets away with immunity, and so can the senator. And there are icons that can do anything, they can kick cops and they can't be prosecuted. Yes? [[Legends.]] There are people, so-called. Legends? A citizen, a citizen with immunity, is a few such groups And finally a legend that can do anything. No, they're all equal to the law, especially now they're all equal to the law, because in your day they weren't. [[Disabled people, too?]] [[Senator, please be quiet.]] And we can promise here that we won't shoot the workers with rubber bullets. You can demonstrate all you want, under the Seym, behind the Senate, wherever you want, but respect the right to demonstrate, to demonstrate, to assembly, to other people's right, because it is a fundamental right and you have to defend it, including those who want to violate it, whether they use rubber bullets or screaming, beating, beating and beating. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u288	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u289	Thank you very much, Marshal. Does the microphone work? [[Yeah, I guess so.]] I asked for a voice in correction mode because Senator Zdrojewska spoke about some extreme groups, extremists who demonstrated in 2014. I do not know who demonstrated in other places, because according to the march organizers it was about 100,000 people, but in 2014, on 11 November, mostly parents with children were walking around me. I was in a situation like this, too, and what I saw were rubber bullets wheezing. Around me, among the marching, there appeared an army of equally dressed, wearing green ski masks of young people, who as a sign of the conductor in one moment caught stones, and they began to mention, so to speak, blows with police, which stood opposite, on Marshal's Street. The march was completely calm, and then... Look on the Internet. These young people in the green ski masks could easily be seen at the back of the march, among police cars, along with police officers, where the green ski masks removed clearly showed who it was. There's no doubt that this whole thing was windy, windy. And the next events, including the burning of a booth at the Russian embassy, were already mentioned here. And don't tell me it was an extremist demonstration that needed to be treated in this way. It was a clear violation of the principle of freedom of demonstration and the rights of those who came to this demonstration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. Five minutes, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u291	Good. I'm addressing Senator Radziwill. Mr. Senator, I know the difference between that period and today. I know the difference. But this code of offenses is still in place and it's being applied. It was not applied to such a situation, demonstrations or political rallies. Mr. Senator, you've been in charge for two years. If it was a provocation, you should detect it and punish people. [[Exactly.]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] What are they doing? I didn't hear you. And I don't think it's because the same people can serve another power. Burning the booth was a provocation? [[Punish...]] Then put those people away. There's the Attorney General, you've got it all in your hands. There's a U.S. Attorney General who should be... who's the Minister of Justice, your colleague in the government. [[We have to prove it.]] It needs to be detected and people put away, punished. You can't say things like that when you've been in charge for a few years and you haven't done anything... you can't hear about an investigation like this. In fact, for some, also here, Frasyniuk is so-called. A hero. [[Why not? A hero?]] Well, so I've heard. Maybe I overheard it, maybe I was wrong. [[Four years in prison...]] It's called. A hero. [[Is that what somebody said?]] I'm curious. [[A real hero...]] ...if the senator was a real hero. You can't say things like that. Even when someone disagrees with Frasyniuk, it cannot deny that Frasyniuk was a hero. [[Voice from the room: He was.]] [[There it is.]] He's no longer a hero to some of us right now. Well, let's just say he was. Everyone is equal to the law, everyone, only one is equal and the other is equal to the law. I wasn't allowed into my wife's grave hours before the exhumation... [[Aram Rybicki.]] ...Arama Rybicki. And then I heard, well, they're all equal before the law. Yes, everyone is equal to the law, but this law must be applied wisely, wisely, in such a way as not to violate anyone's dignity. cyclical assemblies shall be without prejudice to the freedom of assembly. Well, if that's what anybody thinks... Sorry, you can't really explain that a circle is a square. Of course they do. How was it before? There hasn't been a bill before. And what happened? Did two demonstrations fight? The practice that has been applied has been established, there have been no problems with this practice and it is necessary to return to this practice. But I have no illusions about the fate of this bill. I don't have any illusions. I don't apply any appeals, I don't address what I'm saying... [[Mr. Marshal, it's been five minutes.]] ...nor to the senses of the state, part of the senators, or to ethics, because I know it doesn't make sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u292	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. Yes? By corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal, I just want to correct it because it's very important. Mr. Senator, to Senator Czerwinski. I said - Nobody. of us did not support this, there is no doubt that the use of force or smooth-bore weapons was not supported and certainly would not support it. It's just so we can sort this out. I'm also saying that it's about time... That's the event. That's what you've been saying all along. It should have been explained by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u294	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 750 and the committee's report In print No 750 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Schwed, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which worked on 5 June to amend the Civil Procedure Code. The proposed amendment aims to align the right with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017, the signature of Act SK 31/15 declaring the non-compliance of Article. 7781 of the Law of 17 November 1964. The Code of Civil Procedure, in so far as it allows the court to grant an enforcement title against a public company, a declaration of enforceability against a former partner of that company, which is no longer a partner at the time of the initiation of proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against a public company... It is incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and the infringement of the right to a properly shaped procedure, with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which is to deprive the defence of the property rights of the former partner and of Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The recommended solution is to add in Article. The second sentence 7781 reads: "This does not apply to a person who, at the time of the initiation of the procedure in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against a public company, was no longer its partner.' It has been decided that the provisions of the Article shall apply to proceedings for the award of a declaration of enforceability against a partner, a limited partnership or a limited partnership initiated before the date of entry into force of the proposed law. 7781 as amended by the Act. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. The project was widely consulted and their opinions were presented, among others. Attorney General of the Republic of Poland, Supreme Bar Council, Ministry of Justice, National Federation of Restructuring Advisors and Syndicates, Association of Polish Banks, Supreme Court, National Court and National Chamber Council. They were mostly positive opinions. There have also been little comment on the proposed changes. The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions have unanimously adopted 15 votes in favour of the proposed amendment at their meeting on 5 June, which is why on their behalf I request the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u296	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized her to represent Senator Alexander Swede. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? We have Minister Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the project is absolutely right. I'm not gonna take your time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u298	Good. Thank you very much. But I need to ask you a question for the senators. The senators are now allowed to submit a question from a place of no more than one minute to the current meeting of the representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the Senate could now proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be conducted together with other votes in the voting block. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item thirty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No. 775 and the committee's report In print No 775 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Health, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the draft law amending the law on proceedings against persons with mental disorders presenting a risk of life, health or sexual freedom of other persons 3 connected committees The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health. The proposed law aims to bring the law into line with the Court's judgment of 23 November 2016. The Court held that Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 to the extent that it provides for the drawing up of an opinion on the necessity of a further stay at the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour by only one psychiatrist is incompatible with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. In Case K 6/14, the Court pointed out that it was the legislator's duty to regulate the issue of deprivation of liberty of a person at risk in order to include a periodic review order in the legislation as to whether the state and level of the patient's mental disorder justify an extension for a specific further period of treatment at that centre. However, from this point of view, the Court considered the requirement to obtain only one psychiatrist's opinion and the results of the therapeutic proceedings to be insufficient, since this is a reduction in the procedural standard. According to the Court, the minimum guarantee to be granted to the centre is, in fact, contained in Article. 11 of this bill. The Court also stressed that the obligation of the two experts to ask the court to give its opinion reinforces the procedural guarantees of the sentenced person requested to be placed in the centre. During the committee's work there was a discussion, former representatives of the Ministry of Justice who answered the questions asked. The joint committees have amended the draft law and request that the draft be adopted with amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u300	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I address Minister Luke Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal, the bill after these amendments has been introduced deserves to be approved as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u302	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the fifth agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the sign language law and other means of communication. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and is included in print No 504, and the committee's report In print No 504 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Draft law amending the Sign Language Act and other means of communication. On 25 April 2017, a meeting was held between the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, which examined the requests of the President of NIK de lege ferenda contained in the results of NIK's audit of the provision of public services to persons using sign language. After this meeting, a Commission project was created, a bill amending the Sign Language Act and other means of communication Senator's print No 504. The Senate Marshal Stanisław Karczewski sent a draft bill to be examined by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Commission. I have the honour to present a report on behalf of these three committees. Commissions at joint meetings on 12 October 2017 and 5 June 2018 with guests representing inter alia: The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy... The Secretary of State was with us, Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz. The Polish Głuchy Union was represented by the President of the General Board of Krzysztof Kotyniewicz. The Institute of Deaf Affairs was represented by the President of the Board of Małgorzata Talipska. The Polish Cities Association was represented by a representative of the board of directors Marek Wójcik, and the Office of the Government Plenipotentiary for People with Disabilities was represented by Mirosław Carrier's director. The committees considered the draft law presented by the applicants at first reading. The bill was discussed by the chairman of the Legislative Commission, Senator Stanisław Gogacz. Minister of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, gave a positive opinion on the bill presented. The Senate's Legal Office, represented by Ms Danuta Drypa, had no comment on the project presented. The draft law was discussed. The discussion was attended by the senators and representatives of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Polish Deaf Union, the Institute of Deaf Affairs and the Polish City Association. Senator Piotr Florek has tabled an amendment to the bill. He requested to be added to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act, the unit of the system, the Police, the State Fire Department and the municipal guard. The committees examined the draft law at first reading, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of a draft law amending the sign language law and other means of communication Print No 504. The purpose of this project is to adapt the provisions of the Sign Language Act of 19 August 2011 and other means of communication to the actual needs of the deaf. It is the implementation of the conclusions of the de lege ferenda contained in the information of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The bill aims to require the provision of a service enabling communication and the provision of sign language interpreter services also to medical rescue units, police, municipal guards and State Fire Departments. The proposed law will also impose additional obligations on public administrations and listed entities in the form of: providing clear information on the possibility of communication by means of a graphic symbol referring to a message recorded in sign language; providing remote access to a sign language translator in the form of an Internet communicator; ensuring access to a sign language translator or an official of the office, provided that he has an adequate degree of knowledge of Polish sign language or a language-message system; making available the documents necessary to deal with the matter in the form available to authorised persons, including those translated into sign language; making available all necessary information about the bodies in the form of an audiovisual message recorded in sign language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is Senator Piotr Florek... Senator Piotr Zientarski. Excuse me. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill presented? Come, Minister, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am very pleased to be able to thank the senators today for taking up such an important subject for the whole community of deaf and feeble people. The topic is very important, and the fact that action in this direction has not yet been realized, results from objective reasons. In Poland we do not have a system of certification of translators so far, there are no state exams which would give a certificate of sign language translator, we do not have a sworn translator of sign language, there is a lack of an entire instrumentarium that would allow all services and administrations to be obliged to provide sign language translator services. My willingness to speak is mainly due to the fact that at the last meeting of the Polish Foreign Language Council, the Council concluded its work on the system of certification of translators, adopted a resolution and prepared recommendations on how this certification system should be implemented and what statutory changes it requires. It seems that the introduction into the Polish system and certification of translators, and regulations that will enable the creation of the profession of translator of the sworn sign language, will give a chance to implement the law, to implement the instruments about which the law, the amendment of the law prepared by the High Senate speaks. Of course, it has already been mentioned here that we all see the need, the urgent need to make deaf people, deaf people, poor hearing people feel secure, know that in all institutions where they need support, they will have access to translators. Right now, like I said, they don't even know if If they already hire a translator The translator will have the right qualifications to make the translation sound and to show the whole scale of the problems that a deaf person has. I say again: my speech is mainly an indication that what blocked access to such services and what caused the Sign Language Act to include the possibility of providing services and not the obligation to provide them, it seems, will soon change. This will be done, the creation and profession of sign-translator and the profession of sign-language translator, which will enable institutions and services to use sign-translator services in contacts with deaf and poor hearing persons. This communication barrier has a chance to be defeated in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u306	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. I remind you, senators, that item thirty-sixth of the agenda has already been considered. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the seventh agenda: the Act amending the Act of the electoral code and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 870, and the report of the Commission In print No 870 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Pęka, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the 3 joint committees, i.e. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission, a report on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 15 June 2018 amending the Act on Election Code and certain other laws. To begin with, a few words about the purpose of the amendment and the subject matter of the amended law. The purpose of the Act is to remove several dysfunctions resulting from the Act of 11 January this year. amending certain laws to increase public participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities. The Act of 15 June this year introduces the following amendments to the electoral code. Firstly, it abolishes the exclusive competence of the regional electoral committees, which are based in premises adapted to the needs of disabled voters, as a committee for the purpose of correspondence voting by disabled voters. As a result, disabled voters will send their ballots to their electoral circuits. Secondly, it abolishes transmission from the electoral premises through a publicly available electronic data transmission network. Thirdly, it imposes a task on the State Election Commission to maintain a list of persons who have been deprived of their electoral rights on the basis of a mirror law. Fourthly, it provides for the possibility of appointment as an electoral officer also other than a staff member of the office of a person if he has at least five years in office, i.e. former staff of the office. Fifthly, it provides for the possibility for the head of the CWB to delegate the function of electoral officer also to the person who is employed in the municipality where the employment takes place, as well as to the person who is included in the permanent register of voters in the municipality where he is to perform the function of electoral officer; consequently, any person who has a higher education may be an electoral officer. Sixthly, it replaces the need for the head of the CWB to agree with the Chief of Staff on the operation of the corps of electoral officials and electoral committees and adds a provision ordering the municipalities to carry out tasks in this respect as contracted tasks. Seventhly, it abolishes the possibility of appealing to the administrative court against the decision of the PKW following a complaint against the election commissioner's decision to set up a separate voting circuit in a medical facility, a social assistance centre, a prison and detention centre and a student home, as well as restricts the judicial path in the case of complaints concerning ordinary voting circuits and in the case of complaints concerning the division into municipal and district electoral districts to one instance. It will be immediately the Supreme Administrative Court. The provision also introduces classified NSA meetings on these matters. The amendment also introduces some changes in local law. Namely, it abolishes the possibility of using transmission devices from electoral stations for the transmission of the deliberations of municipalities and powiats; this is the consequence of the abolition of transmissions from electoral premises. It introduces a ban on the management of elections to municipalities' support units and lower-ranking bodies, with the exception of the elections to the Warsaw District Councils and the local referendum on the day of the general election, including local elections. However, elections to the Auxiliary Authority and local referendums can be ordered for the day of supplementary, early, re-elections to other bodies. I think these are the most important changes. With regard to the committee's deliberations, it was here that a change which I believe has caused the greatest emotions and the most time-consuming discussion during the joint committee meeting, was the issue of removing the requirement for electronic, online transmission of elections. Well, here, in order to justify this change, it was referred, above all, to the provisions which it introduced so-called. GDPR. At this point, the legal situation has simply complicated the issue of the admissibility of such transmission on the Internet. GIODO's opinion was referred to in this regard. There were questions about whether, by chance, the reason for the abolition of this requirement was not financial issues, but here there was a clear answer that the Ministry of Finance had declared from the very beginning to provide adequate resources for the creation of the whole system of recording the course of elections. So the financial aspect was hardly decisive here, more this legal aspect, related to GDPR. But it was also not hidden that, however, the technical issue of organizing this whole project, given that we have 28,000 circuit boards... Well, it would be a very large organizational, technical undertaking. So that was the thought, in connection with the forthcoming election deadline, that it would be too far-reaching an organizational undertaking. At the committee meeting, a minority request was submitted, but I think Senator Zientarski will present this proposal and discuss it in detail, with reasons. The committee meeting ended with the adoption of the law without amendment and this is my recommendation as rapporteur for the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u308	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislator, i.e. a group of Members, provided for in the article. The 8th bill that separates the referendum from the elections for the President, the elections for the Sejm, the European Parliament and the local authorities. It would seem that this is a correct but inaccurate construction, because the legislator did not indicate the separation period. It is easy to imagine, especially in the political world, that this chapter would be preserved, but the period of chapter would be He could, for example. week. The referendum could be a week after the election or a week before it. Because elections in Poland are organized on a day off from work, on Sunday. The minority proposal aimed to clarify this period and indicated that this minimum allocation period should be 2 months. Of course, he had regard to the transparency of the electoral act, sometimes of a personal nature, sometimes when it comes to the elections to Parliament and to the European Parliament, programmed, but also personal, separation from cases such as those currently being the subject of secret consultations between the Senate Marshal and the President, the referendum so called. opinions or even, to put it simply, constitutionally. I have faced the problem of presenting this minority proposal to the High House. I've faced the problem of choosing certain rules. There is a principle of transparency in the conduct of referendums and electoral acts, there is a principle accepted in Poland, also confirmed in previous practice by the club PiS, previously PC, and other parties That the ordination should not be buried more than 6 months before the next election. All indications are that these elections will take place at the turn of October and November. That is why I have decided to choose the current rule and not to change that rule, because it would be changes of substance, not technical, as was commanded at the committee meeting. I have decided not to change it, and therefore I withdraw the minority's motion. However, I would like to declare to the High House that I am not giving up on the principle of maintaining a short interval between elections and referendums, and I intend to amend the referendum bill, which will be the subject of a legislative initiative. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u310	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minority applicants of the committee have withdrawn their application in point 2 of the print 870 A. Would the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Piotr Zientarski, like to take the floor on this matter? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to justify the position of the initially submitting minority requests and to provide a justification for the withdrawal, as Senator Rulewski just mentioned. High Izbo, indeed this principle, established in practice and confirmed by the ruling of the Constitutional Court, that before the elections there must be a period of at least 6 months of permanent legal status and not changing the rules before the next elections, that is a very important principle, a principle of principle. And that, ladies and gentlemen, justifies our position. But I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to show in this, I would say, double the applicants of this bill, this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the point of this proposal? The idea was to keep the possibility of recording Internet broadcasts from so-called. The second part, that is, the actions of the second committee, which counts the votes. Well, we told each other at the committee meeting... I reminded you of a classic rule that no matter how you vote, it's only important who counts the votes. And for society, transparency in counting votes is important. Ladies and gentlemen, and with this assumption was Law and Justice, speaking of the introduction of both the transmission from the first part, the act of voting, and the second part. The reason for withdrawing from the first part, i.e. from the committee which serves the electoral act itself, is justified by the introduction of the GDPR. Well, that's not true either, because the GDPR was already known in 2016, but let's assume that yes, because in fact, such accusations were presented by e.g. GIODO. But he didn't press charges. No one's been making any accusations. On the second part, that is to say, the part concerning the counting of votes from the opening of the ballot box until the votes are counted and the minutes are drawn up. I ask, then, why, since GIODO has no formal restrictions... I ask, then, why Law and Justice withdraws from recording and broadcasting this very important part of it, after all, introduces a second commission, fresh, etc. It withdraws from transmission. I hear there are no technical conditions. I made a proposal of this kind: if there are no technical conditions, although there is a declaration by the Minister of the Interior, as we hear that money for collateral, according to the law, will be found to be... But let's say there's no way, because we have to make a bid, and so on. Well, you can quickly introduce a specialty that would shut down the tender here. There are possibilities, ladies and gentlemen, we know all of them, we know that in one day you can make a bill, but here you don't want to do it. I suggested that we introduce the vacathio legis, which is to introduce it for the future, since it was the will that we broadcast and present this act of counting votes, which is the work of the second committee, the most important act in my opinion, in my view. I mean, why wouldn't you want to do that even with a deferred deadline? It's a curiosity thing. Of course, like the senator said, we'll be... Because you can see that now there is neither political will nor so-called. technical capacity, or at least it is declared that this cannot be done. I was so interested in this whole thing. I'm not a technical expert on transmissions, but I'm told the recording, even without the transmission, if it were an attachment, is going to cost the same. Well, anyway, we're asking why... The minority asks why we are not recording this important element of the work of the second committee, since the assumptions were that we are transmitting everything. That's why, knowing that for this election anyway... Moreover, these claims have been rejected, so we have no illusions that this will be accepted. However, because we respect the principle The fact that the electoral ordination law doesn't change just before the election We say as a minority that we will not support this proposal and we will simply ask for the rejection of this law. We don't want anything to do with this pre-election tampering, as Senator Rulewski said. We don't want to be held responsible. The voters will settle, assess the intentions of the Law and Justice in terms of transparency, and how the opportunity to show this transparency has actually been realized. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u312	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Does anyone want to... Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u313	To the Senator, the rapporteur of the majority. [[Mr. Jerzy Czerwinski later, yes.]] Mr. Senator, if I understand this correctly, this bill, when I resign from the electoral process, actually the electoral act and the counting of votes, that is, the process, is also intended to abolish the publicity of the local council. Because you wanted to introduce a transmission obligation, and it was actually a very good idea to broadcast the deliberations of all local governments from the new term of office. Mr. Senator, in his reference, said that this issue is no longer valid now, and since you referred to the GDPR, I took it in such a way that not only will there be no obligation, but there will be a ban. Do those local governments that broadcast the deliberations of the Sejmites, the county councils, the municipal councils, in the opinion of GIODO violate the GDPR regulations? I'd ask for an explanation because I'm seriously concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u314	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u315	Mr. Senator, to be honest, I don't think this issue was discussed at the committee meeting, but right now... [[Well, maybe the senator's had a bad run, or maybe I heard wrong...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I mean, no, I think it's point 7, that you're putting up with... [[Possibility of using this apparatus.]] ...that's point 8, the possibility of using transmission equipment from voting stations to broadcast... So it's about using the apparatus, it's just about certain technical standards of the apparatus. That apparatus that's right now... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, yeah. [[Thank you for explaining. It was about using devices.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u316	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please, Mr. Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I have questions, but to Senator Rulewski as rapporteur for the minority proposal.]] [[Oh, good.]] And Senator Rulewski wants to ask you a question, too, later, right? [[I want to ask questions, but first, of course, I'll answer them.]] Good. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u317	Mr. Senator, I'll admit I'm in some kind of discomfort, so to speak. I've got 870 A in front of me. There are two minority applications, the first to reject the bill... I understand you're holding him back, but there were no voices like crucifixing... it's unambiguous... [[Ladies and gentlemen, I do not represent everyone who voted against. I represent only the authors of minority motion number one.]] Good. And there's conclusion number two, but he, as Senator Zientarski said, is about the transmission from the peripheral location, i.e. In fact, the limits to the time when the votes are calculated, not the moment when the votes are cast... But you said earlier in your speech that you're withdrawing some kind of motion. ♪ Or I'm wrong ♪ I understand that, so please clarify this, which is related to the possibility of simultaneously holding elections and referendums. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? But there's no conclusion. So what's the conclusion? Well, what are you guys pulling back? Because Senator Rulewski made such amendments. I was at a committee meeting. But it's not in the conclusions, so the question is what you're withdrawing. Because there's no physical conclusion. [[What's not there? Well, if there isn't, I don't know...]] Okay, well, let's get this straight, 'cause... [[That's the second conclusion, isn't it?]] ...then there'll be protocol problems. These are basic things. You cannot withdraw an application that is simply not in print. Either it was forgotten to include it, or you withdrew it earlier and it wasn't printed. Well, there's nothing left to withdraw, Senator. I'm sorry, but there's nothing left to take back. [[Can I answer that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u318	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u319	Mr. Senator Czerwinski, thank you. I think the entire High House should thank you for being perceptive. I've been summoned by your marshal to report. If I didn't want to, I couldn't refuse your marshal to report on the proposal I was the author of. As I understand it, your marshal, a competent person, based this call on documents prepared by the Legislative Bureau or the Bureau Service Department. [[Yes.]] Well, maybe it's my little one. The fault is that I have not seen the review of this report and I have submitted this memory report. [[But you're right, because...]] And that's why, if you don't mind, after the intervention of your marshal, I'll answer your observation. [[I understand, Mr. Senator, that you're maintaining your motion to reject the bill.]] That's what I'll show you in the vote. [[Good. But you're withdrawing that second motion, which means...]] I withdraw the motion for which, as I recall, Senator Zientarski, I believe, was also in favour of the article. Article 8a and Article 8a 37a, which provided for the need to separate referendums and elections. All I did was put in a record of breaking it up for a minimum of two months. This was officially reported in writing. First, there was an amendment that became a minority proposal, and then there was a report, for example, about who was the author of it. And the proof of that is that your marshal has discovered that I am the rapporteur for the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u320	Good. Thank you, Senator. Is that clear? [[May I? Yeah, in one sentence.]] Please. Out of place, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u321	On the spot, on the spot. After consulting the Legislative Bureau, just so we're clear... The first is a motion to reject the law and, of course, this proposal has not been withdrawn because, as the senator himself stated in his explanatory statement, we do not want to change this law before the elections. That's the main issue. Mr Senator spoke about his amendment, which was not recorded as a minority request, and justified why he did not support this amendment and in this sense did not report it to the committee again, although he had tabled it at the committee meeting. I have tabled such an amendment, which has been recognised as a minority request, and I have formally withdrawn this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u322	Okay, thank you very much. Are there any more... [[Yes, I have a question.]] Oh, the senator has a question for Senator Mark Bang. Yes? [[Exactly.]] There you go, Mr. Senator. There you go. Are you Senator Augustine yet? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u323	Mr. Senator Bang... [[Turn on the mike, please.]] Senator rapporteur, you are writing a bill containing a few technical elements, but also, as I say, substantive elements, among others. a record that something has to be separated. It is important to separate the referendum from the elections. Right? This is therefore of a substantive nature. Well, the example of Turkey can be recalled, which shows how far the lack of such regulation, good regulation... It also connects with what is threatening Poland, it creates certain tensions. The question is, how do these statements of Senator Ziientarski come to this, who referred to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal that he is not tampering with the ordination within a period of less than 6 months until the elections. How would you justify that this initiative is being carried out within a period of three to four months? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u324	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! This issue was discussed at the committee meeting. Well, the justification is this: indeed, these changes must not be made, but this concerns changes of a different nature, such changes that come into the essence of the electoral, passive or active law itself, which are, I would say, the backbone of the electoral act itself. Well, although it's really hard not to agree with the senator that some changes don't just have a strict The technical nature, however, is this essence, this core of the electoral law does not touch, and therefore we stand in the position that they are legally acceptable, even though it has been less than six months to the election. [[It's a matter of evaluation.]] Yeah, of course. It's a question of interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u326	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u327	I have two questions. First. Please tell us how it was argued to introduce the possibility of calling electoral officials also from the municipality concerned. Because before that, we were persuaded that it was the other way around, that we couldn't do it, because the interested people would be working in their community and... It was about being impartial. Were there any numbers of people who were able to appoint officials? How many people are missing? Because my orientation shows that the stakes that are proposed are so unattractive that people just don't come forward, whether they're from one or another. I don't think there are people in the neighboring community with a higher education that could be called up. There are no volunteers, but the cause is different. Where does this hope come from that if you put up with these limitations, there will be people for this job? That's the first question. The second concerns the ban on the management of elections to municipalities' auxiliary units and the local referendum on the day of the general election. I was in the local government, and I really wanted the support units to be called, because it activated the residents, but attendance was generally low. The possibility of holding these elections on the day of the other elections greatly increased this turnout. I do not see any substantive reason for this prohibition. How was that argued? What was the argument? Because this will make it even more difficult to establish settlement councils and Soviet councils.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! Well, I don't think those issues were discussed at the committee meeting. As for this first case, I can say, from one side to the other, that these are probably the changes caused by these staff shortages. Well, apparently in the assessment of the State Election Commission in its existing legal state, this January, is the problem with filling all the positions of electoral officials. So that's probably the basic issue when it comes to the ratio legis of this change. As for the other, I can only presume, speak from myself. Indeed, there was an increase in attendance on the occasion of other elections, but it seems to me that this is a little bit of a deception of democracy, i.e. It's like an artificial turnout. Well, democracy is about the genuine participation of voters, i.e. that voters should vote because they really are concerned with specific matters, they are interested in having such a will, not because they pass by and vote on completely different matters, as if they had voted on secondary issues. So it is debatable whether this mechanism has actually been correct or not from a democratic point of view. Well, I'm having second thoughts, but I'm only talking here in my own name.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u329	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much... [[Thank you very much.]] ...senator of the rapporteur. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska spoke. You're welcome. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Yes? [[Yes.]] Good. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u330	Ladies and gentlemen! Previously, a few months ago, as we introduced this mentioned law, I was the rapporteur for the minority proposal. And I have to say with satisfaction that many of the points that I was talking about at the time, answering the senators' questions and also speaking at all, have been confirmed. I didn't say that on the basis of knowledge of GDPR regulations, because I admit it. I didn't know about them, but I was talking about common sense. And I gave this example that if there is a motion for the mayor's cancellation, there will be a referendum and the mayor will appeal to this referendum not to go, and then the transmission will show who went and who didn't go, then the man may simply not dare to go to the vote, because there will be no secret vote, this condition will not be met. [[Awful...]] And now... It doesn't make any sense to me at all. The second argument I used was that of the countries in which there was a broadcast from the session, of counting votes. To put it mildly, they were mostly countries with emerging democracies. And the same argument at the meeting of the committee, which was recently, was now used by the representative of the applicants for change. So... I'm not appealing again because we're not gonna hear it, but it's okay for somebody to say "I'm sorry." The fact that there's no government representative here... [[And the election board.]] [[State Election Commission.]] ...there's no representative of the State Election Commission, it says something. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this show? The bad state of the state, the bad state. I must say that we are sitting at this meeting on three very important laws. Three times we've corrected what you ruined a few months ago. I'm talking about the wind bill, I'm talking about the electoral ordination, and I'm talking about the ipeenian law, 3 laws snatched up, broken, miswritten, and quickly passed. Bad country, poor legislation, poor parliament, but also poor projects, mostly introduced as parliamentary projects. And I'd like someone to get up and explain, and I'm sorry. What's going on? What happened to our country, for example. Some of these projects went through all the ministries, and no one noticed? As we discuss various kinds of laws, there is a rubbish about whether it is compatible with EU law. [[Voice from the room: So?]] Yeah, but we didn't, we didn't check it out because it was an extraordinary, urgent mode. Because Parliament has become a voting machine, not a real parliament. Because the government isn't preparing laws, it's working on political orders by writing projects on its knees. And that's what you have to say here. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how is it that you are pulling out of such important things, and you are not saying sorry? How come you don't have any shame just like that? Because even today, representatives of the previous government are sitting here. I could say I think it's a good thing. 'Cause if those cameras had to be billed, bought, and then it turns out no one can handle them. Or that they're broken, so what would happen? I can imagine this mess because this is what we have right now. ♪ So weak ♪ And that's the mess. Oh, one more thing we've been doing. The law about... what's it called... national, whatever, the center of freedom and something. Yeah, we've been fixing that. Yes, sir. [[Yeah, two.]] Well, we just sit here and correct everything we ruined a few months ago, and nobody's ashamed. And then, instead of taking any kind of reflection, you vote like semaphores. And I think that's something to explain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u331	Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It is indeed a curious matter that, without an analysis of the state of play of the election preparations, decisions are taken that we do not know whether they will be hit or not, and there is no representative of the State Election Commission. We cannot ask him: how many electoral officials have been able to appoint, why haven't we been able to appoint as many as it takes? We do not know whether the prescription prescribed in this Act is the answer to the real cause. I've heard of a completely different flood, and I'm having second thoughts. Am I gonna regret the fact that we're gonna be able to bear the need to appoint these officials in a minute if these 5,000 people aren't gonna be able to call? No, because from this speaker Mr Hermeliński said that the elections had been prepared perfectly at the level of the municipalities so far, without any officials, so to speak, without the need to throw away the money. All the more so, as it was argued here, these officials would be recruiting from officials, but preparing elections in the neighboring municipality. It's just absurd! Either someone prepares it right here, or they're posted there, but then there's no one else to prepare it here. There was no convincing argument that it had something, anything, anything to give to anyone. You continue to do so without the chance to implement this idea, which is missing from the beginning to the end. But today is also an opportunity to remind you of what you have done with this law in general, how you have abolished the requirement that impartial judges should be electoral commissioners, how you have abolished the right and democratic principles of appointing the head of the electoral office, etc. This tampering with elections continues and does not go in the right direction, because one of the few things that could be considered as a step towards transparency, which is this recording, is what you are putting up with. And finally, I would like to say this: the tension of the muscles that this country is doing now, what excellent law we are making, without regard for anything... And every couple of hours, we go out here and we say, "This RES thing isn't right at all, with this code." It's not like that, with the IPN it's not like that and so on. So here you go: there are minority proposals, let's consider them honestly, because without that, we're probably going to be gathering here again and we're going to come back. Some are upset, like me and others, I hope, though with a little reflection, if not embarrassment, to records which, for obvious reasons, should not be passed from the beginning. And that is why I ask you, this time, to take the electoral code seriously and take into account minority proposals. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u333	Thank you, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. So I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the ninth agenda: the Act amending the Act on the creation of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw. This means changing the order in which the points are dealt. If I don't hear any objection, I'll consider the High Senate to accept this change. I can't hear you objecting. The text of the Act amending the Act on the creation of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw is contained in print No 871, and the report of the committee In print No 871 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Józef Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Act amending the Act on the creation of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw changes the scope of scientific and teaching activities of the university, extending it to medical sciences. This means that the university will have the right to educate and conduct research in particular in the field of humanities, social, medical and theological sciences. The Act also includes the provision that, in the event of a university applying for the right to conduct medical studies, Article will not apply. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2 (a) b first indent of the Law on Higher Education. The quoted provision states that the basic organizational unit of a university which does not have the authority to confer a degree of doctoral education and a degree of doctor in the field of education and to which the course of study is assigned, which fulfils the conditions laid down for conducting studies, may be entitled to conduct, in accordance with the accepted educational outcomes, studies with a general academic profile, if the studies conducted in this field have received at least a positive assessment of the quality of education of the Polish Accreditation Board. The provisions proposed in this Act are justified by a significant shortage of medical personnel in Poland. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport requests the adoption of a law without amendment. In the vote, two senators abstained.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u335	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? Senator Zientarski. There you go. [[Senator Zdrojewska.]] [[No, Senator Augustine.]] Excuse me, Senator Augustine. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u336	Senator, conducting medical studies is an education of people who must have the highest qualifications, because this field concerns our life and health. While it is possible to accept certain exceptions in other directions and specialties, but here, it seems to me, special caution is required. Did the university present any data at the committee meeting that would show that it was able to carry out this task? Because the fact that we're short of doctors, nurses, it's true, but the way to change this can't be in such a direction that we're going to lower the requirements. Which is why I'm asking you to present some data, Mr. Senator, which would make the university's ability to conduct medical studies unmistakable.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u337	I'll ask Senator Zdrojewska for a question, and then you'll ask the senator for a total answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna bring up that thread that you raised, the senator, because I'm gonna admit it's a matter of concern, and this case has appeared in the media. I would like to ask if the committee meeting in the discussion raised the arguments about making such an exception. I draw attention to the fact that we here make certain rules, which we then legally want to avoid. That's how I understand it. I'd like to ask you to explain. Second thing. I'd like to ask you a question. I don't know if you've been watching the senator, but on the Internet, mostly in left-wing environments, there's this big campaign about the fear of a clause. Since the university is Catholic, will it have an obligation to impose a clause of conscience on its graduates or doctors? Please tell me whether this matter was raised during the committee meeting and how it looks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u339	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u340	Maybe I'll start with that last moment. Well, the matter of the conscience clause was not raised, but I understand it in a simple way. The clause of conscience does not apply to students, but to those who start work after obtaining the right authority, so after graduation. The fact that the university will certainly transmit Catholic values is without doubt, but as a professor of the Catholic University of Lublin, I can assure you that I was not indoctrinated too deeply about some extreme views of the so-called Catholic. I don't think that's gonna happen at this college either. This is attributed to this type of university usually somewhere far away, from the outside, the times these are universities such as everywhere in the world, where Catholic universities are many. They conduct training according to all principles, requirements, and generally this Catholicism is somewhere near, in terms of requirements. It certainly has a very positive impact on the work of students and the attitude of scientific staff. That's the point, the question I'd like to answer. Now, here's the thing. We got a little tangled up by law and hence the few bypasses that have already taken place, i.e. 3 or 4 universities that have received such powers to conduct medical courses, namely probably Kielce, Rzeszów and... I don't know, I think there's another college... [[Opole, Green Mountain.]] Oh, that's right. Thank you very much. Here I can only quote part of my speech at the committee meeting. Well, I am very strongly opposed to those arrangements that have been imposed on us so far by the law on higher education, where medical studies have not been allowed to be divided into first and second degree studies. And that's a shame, 'cause somebody with a faculty title used to function everywhere. I remember a guy like that in my town used to be a doctor. And someone like that could... The Minister is shaking his head... But that's my view. The lack of personnel in the country, as far as doctors are concerned, is enormous. But it's not just the doctors. Nurse's Personnel The situation here is even worse, as demand coverage is probably 60%. Therefore, the granting of medical training rights to the university, which has so far proved that it can take science very seriously... The process of preparing for such a course was discussed during the committee meeting by the rector of the university, who stated, in which medical institutions they have provided the practice, where the staff will come from, what will be the staff. Foreign contacts with medical universities also have this university. So I think the case is taken very seriously. Of course, it's not like if it's okay, it's okay to say so, the horses are gone and they're gone... There's also an accreditation and medical commission. They will monitor the course of the education process.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u341	Are there any further questions? Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u342	Yeah, I'd like to ask you something else. I am not on the Health Committee and I would like to ask your rapporteur about the specifics... I think it's a good thing that Catholic universities have these kinds of courses. I have no doubt about it. Many institutions of a caring nature, which are run by the Church, need such staff. I also understand the desire to study at a Catholic university, not another. I'd like to ask you what the specializations are going to be, what it's going to look like in this medical department. Do we know that yet? Are they gonna be there, for example? specialties in the field of geriatrics, which are missing in Poland? I'd like you to say a little bit more about meeting needs when it comes to the doctor market, ugly to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u343	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u344	I think it's too soon to talk about it. At each university, specializations or specialties take place after the second or third year. I think the university will certainly pay attention to what medical specialists and not only need our health facilities. Well, it's a very important market today, a very important market. I am convinced that these matters will be taken seriously at this university.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u345	And again, Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u346	I'm sorry, but I'm gonna be curious because I'm a little worried. If the university is asking for the opening of the faculty, I think it has an idea. It has plans. And that is what I would like to hear, if not from the rapporteur, perhaps from the minister's representative. Oh, the Minister's nodding his head... Then that's a question I'll refer to the Ministry's representative later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u347	I can't count right now, but... The rector of the university, who was at the committee meeting, gave us which medical institutions in the world, not only in Poland, the university has signed agreements. And so, among other things. Gemelli clinic in Rome, probably two universities in the United States. As far as the details are concerned, of course, please, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u348	Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Mr Piotr Müller, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, like to speak? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to this project as part of a government position, but also to explain some of the doubts that arose during the process. Of course, the Council of Ministers gave a positive opinion on the draft submitted by Members, but the legislative work in the Sejm made significant corrections to the draft in relation to its original version. First of all, this proposal is really about excluding a legislative restriction, the nature of the legislative error that has occurred in the present law. In fact, in this project, which has already been submitted to the Senate, we exclude one provision, a minor provision, concerning the prior conduct of studies with a practical profile in the case of universities, which do not have the authority to confer a doctoral degree or a doctoral degree in a particular discipline. And if this is correct in the case of studies with other profiles, then not in this case, because the medical course is conducted only and only with a general academic profile. In short, this provision excluded the possibility of creating medical courses at all universities in Poland, unless they had prior permissions... unless they had the right to grant a degree of doctor-habilitated, which narrowed down very much, or actually eliminated all universities that are not medical universities. Therefore, what you have now in the submission submitted by the Sejm only excludes the application of this provision. In fact, in the original version it was a much broader exemption and we were rather critical in this respect, therefore it was limited. In short, what will be the procedure now, after this provision has been introduced? It's a standard procedure, as with all other fields of study, except that earlier this university didn't have to lead the same course with a practical profile. In short, the university is now submitting a proposal to the Minister of Science and Higher Education, who, following the opinion of the Polish Accreditation Commission in the framework of a standard procedure evaluating the scientific achievements, evaluating the infrastructure necessary for conducting studies, assessing the assignment of individual academic teachers to specific teaching classes, will give an opinion on whether the university is ready to conduct such a course of studies. And only on this basis will the Minister of Science and Higher Education, in agreement with the Minister of Health, grant permission to conduct studies. In short, we are not talking about automatic permission for Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University to conduct a medical course. Here is only the removal of a certain legislative error, which in practice excluded the possibility of creating courses with a medical profile at other universities. In this version, which was submitted to the Senate, there is only such exclusion. Thus, this concern which arises from the senators' state is right, but there is a security here, because it is the Polish Accreditation Commission that will make a standard assessment of the possibility of conducting a course of study by this university. In this connection, this proposal is really about this exemption of a purely legislative nature, and please be calm that the university will have to be ready to conduct its studies, because the Polish Accreditation Commission has to admit, is very meticulous, and the approval of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Science and Higher Education is still needed. If there's any more questions, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u350	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? [[Me.]] Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u351	I understand now, but I will ask about this University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Is that where the plans are? How's it look? Because the reason for this is that this is supposed to prevent certain problems, because there are some specialties missing from the market, etc. Well, then I'd like to ask your reasons. Do you have any knowledge of what this will look like in the case of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University? If you were the Rector, I understand there's a reason for it somewhere. If you want to open up a faculty like this at the university, it's likely that the university has some specific plans, and not just wants to set up a faculty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u352	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u353	Of course. Only that it is so that only after this law has been passed will the university be able to formally apply for this course of study. He's already prepared in the working version. It was presented to us during the legislative work, and several hundred pages, a proposal to open the course of studies with the assignment of individual professors to conduct classes, with a description of the research infrastructure. After all, UKSW has already signed several agreements with units that conduct scientific research in the field of medicine, including the Military Institute of Medicine. So the university is actually ready to apply. However, I would like to make it clear here that this law does not in any way guarantee the university the right to study. It's not like we're skipping the law on quality requirements for college. And speaking to the rector, we clearly stress, as the Ministry, that this law only opens... i.e. eliminates a formal error that prevented the application from being submitted. But the quality procedure for the study programme, research infrastructure and research must be carried out as standard, as for all other universities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u354	Are there any further questions? Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u355	You didn't really answer my question. Because I would just like to know what directions will be conducted at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, what is it about, whether any specializations will be launched in the future, etc. This is the first case. And then there's this. I would like to ask you to answer the question of whether this has been assessed by the medical university community in the country. Were there any positive opinions or... were there just any opinions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u356	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u357	Senator, I cannot answer directly what training will be introduced there, because the proposal can be formally submitted only after the adoption of the law. Therefore, it will be my responsibility to provide such information when the request is made. He was just in the middle of a consultation... I therefore do not answer this question fully. What we're talking about here is just shutting it down. I'm gonna stress it again. The legal gap in the requirement to conduct a practical profile in the same direction of study to open a general academic profile. The practical medical profile is not conducted. This provision necessarily caused that no university that had the authority to confer a degree of doctor-habilitated status could open up a medical course because it was legally forced on a general academic profile. That's the way it looks on this side. As far as opinions are concerned, they were diverse. Some institutions critically referred to the original project because it completely excluded the assessment of the Polish Accreditation Board, which meant that the university submitted an application and the Minister automatically granted the right to conduct a medical course. But this was changed in the original project. And the whole procedure related to the requirements which are assessed by the Polish Accreditation Board will be carried out on a standard basis. Therefore, these opinions are not justified here because the solutions concerned are no longer included in the proposed law. [[Excuse me, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u358	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u359	I'm so sorry, but... [[It was supposed to be the last one.]] I'm very sorry, but I have a right. Minister, tell me... I don't understand. A few hundred-page motion came in, you saw it, read it, it officially entered the ministry from school. You won't tell me what's in it because it's secret? Or don't you want to expose him? I'm asking you to discuss just... [[Voice from the room: It did not affect, because it is a parliamentary initiative...]] I don't know why... I'm asking the Minister. [[But I have a right to ask...]] I want you to present this... [[Mr. Senator, you will speak in the discussion.]] Please state what is in this document. Well, I'd like to get some more information on that. If you do not wish to present this at the moment, I ask the honorable marshal to turn himself in on behalf of the Senate in writing. If this isn't classified, please put it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u360	Senator, the question is clear. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u361	Mrs. Senator, there is no reason why, following the request to open the course of study mentioned above, it should be presented after the request has been received. This is not a bad will on my part or on the part of the ministry. It's just that this proposal is several hundred pages long. I am unable to give you an ad hoc answer on what is in it when it comes to specific institutions. The Gemelli clinic was mentioned there as regards institutions that have signed scientific cooperation. There is also information in this proposal about what research is carried out in this university, among others. in the field of brain research, in the field of brain research, in the field of brain research, e.g. virtualization of human internal organs, anatomy, etc. Well, if I may, I'd be happy to put it in writing. It's just that I'm not able to answer you in this regard. [[But I asked about directions, teaching courses, didactics.]] [[The direction is one.]] Dear Senator... [[One department, a doctor.]] ...one direction, a doctor... [[Well, that's what I'm asking. What are they gonna be like...]] [[Voice from the room: Dentistry.]] [[Please?]] Direction... [[Dentistry? Really?]] [[Minister, please answer to the extent that you are able to answer the senator's question.]] Good. Doctor's direction. This is the direction we're talking about. He's just called a doctor. Training standards are laid down in the Regulation. There can't be anything else in there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u362	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Müller: Thank you.]] Oh, and Senator Gaweł has a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u363	Minister, are there figures on the deficit in terms of training doctors in Poland? Is there any chance that... we all know what the situation is like. That's one thing. Secondly, what is your opinion on the following topic: the Polish state educates tens of thousands of young people at private universities, a large number of these people finish their studies and have problems with getting a job. So why is there such a deficit when it comes to doctors? Who cares about releasing so few doctors? You know exactly what college admissions look like. He's highly standardized. It is done on the basis of a diploma certificate, an evaluation of directional subjects, mainly biology and chemistry, possibly mathematics and physics. It's up to the university. And there's a very small difference between those applicants who don't get in and those who get in. It is known that there could be an increase in recruitment. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u364	Minister, please respond as far as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u365	Recruitment in the field of medical studies is increased from year to year, among others. because we're creating new courses of study. I'm talking about Green Mountain, Radom, Opole. Now it is a matter of opening up a course at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University. Each year recruitment is increased. Today on my desk I got materials to agree on new limits for this year. I can't remember now if there's an increase, but it happens every year. I'm also talking about teacher education. All of this is the concern of the High House, which has been repeated many times. It must be in balance with the quality of education at these universities. Medical universities inform us that they are able to increase the training of future doctors to a certain extent and at the same time secure the clinical activities that take place in small groups. That is why we have decided as a government to open new courses of study in several places. By force, graduates of these courses will not be in a few years, but the concern of the government is to increase the limit. Each year, this limit is actually increased and medical courses are opened at new universities, as currently education institutions are unable to increase the limit themselves from year to year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u366	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u367	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. What you're saying is very important, but please tell me... I'm watching it in other areas. Whether there are students isn't that much of a problem. But are there any teachers who will be able to teach them at these universities? I think that's the problem. Because if there's such a problem right now... I happen to be from Cracow, where it works quite dynamically. With serious problems, but the Jagiellonian University works with its university. Are we not going to encounter a very serious problem here, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u368	Mr. Senator, this case was presented during your absence. [[I'm sorry. Thank you very much.]] If the Minister wants, he can talk about it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u369	Of course, we have some problems in terms of staff minimum, in terms of specialists who would like to teach at universities, but this has not been an impossible problem in these new fields of study. Each newly opened medical course must meet the requirements set out in the Education Standards Regulation, i.e. have a certain number of professors, independent academics, who will conduct specific activities. In most cases, or perhaps in all cases, there is a clinical hospital, which conducts classes for students, either next to the university or within the university. Of course, we have a shortage of doctors every year, but we secure the level of education. A major challenge is to secure on the one hand the level of education and on the other hand the number of graduates of individual medical courses. This balance seems to be preserved at this point because all courses of study have a positive opinion of the Polish Accreditation Board. Doctors, professors of medicine, who are in expert teams, found that the quality of education is secured by a minimum of staff, which has been reported to conduct the course of studies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u370	Are there any further questions? Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u371	I am very sorry to ask you a question that has already been asked, but is Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University with its new direction, which is the medical department... Where will the student training course take place, at which clinic? Do they have hospitals or clinics to do that? Because I think it's important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u372	This is a condition for conducting studies at all. In Warsaw we have several clinical hospitals, so that is not a problem. Of course, such a problem arises in smaller towns, but, as I said, it is a condition for conducting clinical activities, so in this case there is no danger. Warsaw provides such opportunities without a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u373	Thank you. Are there any further questions? No questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Müller: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Zdrojewska. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: Not anymore...]] The senator gave up that answer. So the Minister doesn't have to do that anymore. Thank you. Senator Radziwiłł will be the first in the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, first of all, I would like to say that I strongly support the bill, and I think it is absolutely right. I urge everyone to support this bill unanimously, without political divisions. There is no doubt that it will contribute to, first, actually educate more doctors, and secondly, to educate them at a good level. And that's actually, you could say, two directions that we need to keep in mind all the time. Although there is much to be said about the lack of doctors in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, it must be said explicitly that some huge gap between Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University will not have a chance to clog up in the near future, because of course such education can start with a small number of students and it will not be a demographically large number, but it is some element. As far as doctors are concerned, Senator Gaweł asked such a question: who cares if there are fewer or not enough doctors? Well, that's the whole world's problem. I don't think there's a single country in the world that says he's sick of doctors. The richest countries at dawn declare it, too. Well, maybe with some pathological exceptions in some areas where countries have turned into doctor education. But this does not always mean that everyone is happy with it, because sometimes the quality of this education leaves much to be desired. So, generally speaking, Poland does not belong to the avant-garde or the ariergarde. In terms of medical demography, we are about halfway across Europe, but there are certainly no doctors available. And there are many factors that affect it. This is, on the one hand, emigration, inadequate education... And I would like to remind you that since 2016 it has constantly increased And it's very much. The number of students who are educated or admitted to medical studies. In 2016, it was 600 people, in 2017, probably about the second amount, over 200 this year. So it's a huge effort. As former Minister of Health, I can assure you that, in fact, the only limitation at the moment is the possibility of training by existing medical institutions. Indeed, there is no exaggeration because the quality of this education will simply fall. So it is important that there are also new universities that educate doctors but at the same time meet the highest standards of this education. And here I would go fluently to the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, while at the same time a little bit debating with the Minister, who spoke about a certain legislative gap preventing these studies from being started. I believe that this is not a gap, that the requirements with regard to those universities that want to start training in medical departments, high requirements, as well as requirements - No, you can say in a nutshell. A certain tradition of action in the field of medicine is absolutely right. But Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University is a university that is as it is. We see him, and on this basis we can repeal this requirement. I have no doubt about that. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an education in such fields as biology, physics, chemistry, mathematics, which not everyone knows about, because some associate the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński with the former ATK, i.e., one can say such a university dedicated to religion, the Church, philosophy, etc.. Meanwhile, this is now a real, wide-format universal university. And I have no doubt that basic education is high enough there to start training students in these basic areas when it comes to the medical department. It is also extremely important that this is the university where these other departments and learning opportunities of philosophy are located... For example, there is a long tradition of education in medical law and bioethics. This is also extremely important when it comes to the aspects of being a doctor, but it is also about languages and various other areas, e.g. psychology. They're not important to listen to, either. It is worth reminding, by the way, that the professionalism of a doctor is of course knowledge, it is certainly practical skills, also so-called skills. soft, i.e. primarily the ability to communicate with a patient, and this is the domain of sociology, psychology, i.e. areas of family science, areas that are developed at the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. And finally, ethics is extremely important. In this respect, I think the university certainly guarantees that teaching in this area will be sufficiently high in this respect. This is where some of them talked about the Catholicity of this university. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that this is a strange question for me at all, because Catholicism or wider Christianity are values, and medicine without value is some kind of dead end. I think it's a misunderstanding to talk about the fact that the graduates are going to have to use a conscience clause at the moment when they haven't started training in the medical department yet. What is the use of a conscience clause? This is a refusal to do something that is contrary to my conscience. This right according to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2015 is the law that everyone has Not a doctor, not a pharmacist, not a nurse, not a clerk, but everyone. Every man has such a right directly under the Constitution. And I think it's repeated by some... I don't want to mention here who said: I leave my conscience before I go into my office, also in my doctor's office. It's just a misunderstanding. In the case of medicine, a misunderstanding dramatically striking the right of the patient to be treated by a doctor who is a professional, but also a person who respects some values to which he is attached. Being a doctor, I have no doubt that this is one of the most important aspects of being a doctor. And that's what the patients expect. So if there's a college where the emphasis on values can be even greater than anywhere else. I'm not saying it's too small somewhere else, but if it's even bigger It's just better, you can only enjoy it. I don't see the slightest reason to see Catholic doctors, although of course it's not the only one that's going to happen. It's not like we're gonna have to do this. As some kind of threat to anyone, because they'll be a chance. They will be an opportunity for those patients who simply need another man, not only a cold technique, but also another human being. And in medicine this is a very common situation. So I strongly support this project because I think that thanks to... Well, this was about the fact that the university will not be able to teach with its own powers these practical skills. It is obvious, but many universities, including these traditional medical universities, use clinics, as they say, on a foreign basis, which means they simply cooperate with other institutions. The Minister rightly pointed out that there are several such hospitals in Warsaw, which are clinical and do not belong to the Warsaw Medical University. These are e.g. Military Medical Institute, MMA Central Clinical Hospital, doctor's postgraduate education center, etc., etc. So you can say that there are a lot of these... And we know that Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University is already at an advanced stage in signing agreements in this area. In addition, it must be said that it is not from hospital classes that medical training begins, because for the first two years, basically classes take place outside clinics. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Well, I have to react to some of the ones that died here, too. It's about the rims. Felschers are still educated in some places in the post-Soviet countries, but this really is not the direction we should be going. The Bologna Process nowhere in the world concerns medical training, and I think that's very good. Let's just leave it the way it is. Should medical studies remain general-academic? Of course I do. There's no way these are purely practical studies, just like in some medical professions. And one last thing. The senator's been pushing so hard to find out what specials it's all about. Medical school is general school. It ends with a doctor's degree, and specialization is a domain of post-graduate education. Only after the completion of the post-graduate course does the doctor begin his specialization. This is not a college domain, this is done in a completely different mode. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u375	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister Radziwiłł took many thoughts away from me, but there is still some left and I would like to share them. Of course, about the application of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, the PKA will speak and then the Ministry will decide. It was unclear to demand this proposal. We talked about this. I have allowed myself on the bench, despite the reminders of your marshal, to say that it was a parliamentary initiative, and the parliamentary initiative does not require such documents. Therefore, the Minister was in a rather difficult situation, although at the beginning of his speech he said that this proposal was being presented during work. Shown and not submitted in official form. These are two different things. Minister Radziwiłł said he was in favour of this initiative, and this opinion is important to me. Today we held a meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which very carefully interviewed the rector, asking a number of important questions. You asked Senator Wach who wasn't here, asked my person, Senator Hare. I think he was just bragging, but it all happened. I must say that the first reason I have decided to speak is because of the senator's words about imposing a clause of conscience. The Minister has said a little bit about it, but I would like to stop at it because I have such a weakness that when someone in my presence says something and I disagree, I react. Maybe that's why I'm not always here. It is because the wording of a conscience clause is an internal contradiction, because the conscience... Well, everybody's got it, usually everybody's got it. Consciences are very different, they are not always used, but the application of the conscience clause and its scope depends on the person. It cannot be that the university, another person or other institution will order someone to apply a conscience clause. He may order him to behave in a certain way, but these are two different things. The imposition of a conscience clause is an internal contradiction, and I would like to make this clear. Maybe I'll make a longer statement in the next five minutes if the senator comes to this. The university can only promote certain values. But let's note that a freshman is a grown man. This isn't a kid in kindergarten or a 6-year-old who goes to school early because he was told to, because social engineering told him to break it as a 6-year-old. That's all grown-up people are. So there's absolutely no doubt about it. I must say that there is also a second wording, and it is your rapporteur's senator, the extreme Catholic views. Mr. Senator, I don't know what an extreme Catholic view is. Well, that's far-reaching at least awkward. You can't say that. After all, Catholicism is not an ideology, we have catechism, we know what it is. There are of course different levels of emotion, there are different levels of identification with these values, but these are two different things. The senator said he wasn't indoctrinated at KUL. Well, ladies and gentlemen, college isn't a brainwasher, it's not a cult. I'm very sorry, but I've had the opportunity to talk to Fr. Card. Grocholewski, who for many years was the Minister of Education in the Vatican Government, was the head of the faculty for upbringing, and he repeatedly talked about numerous Catholic schools and universities in the world and talked about the fact that many of these universities study people completely different challenges. It is often even so that the head of state from the Middle East directs his children to Catholic school because he knows she is the best. And that's wisdom. The Holy See is leading such actions. Minister Radziwiłł talked a little bit about the fact that Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University is a modern university or full-size university. I don't know what words to use here, but the Minister was talking about broad horizons, basic research, not just humanities. This is very important. I even wrote that thought here, that maybe for some it is too modern a university. So I wouldn't really be afraid of that. I would say that during these questions, the magnificence, the rector, the rector talked about the fact that they have signed numerous contracts with clinics, that these are clinics evaluated in terms of A+, A and B+, so these are very high categories. He talked a lot about internationalization, about cooperation agreements with Gemelli, with Lugano, with Navarra. He also spoke a lot, although the questions were already a little short of time, about modern information technology, about artificial intelligence, in particular about plans to introduce a certain novel in this area, in terms of medical science in Poland, i.e. digital medicine, virtual center of anatomy. I must say that some of the IT staff that are prepared for this medicine, I have the pleasure of knowing, even today I attended a meeting with these people. With advanced telemedical methods. So this area is quite extensive. But as long as I've agreed with everything so far, I won't agree with one of them. However, this provision of the bill has a flaw. And here I would like to support the Minister, because the bill of law is an amendment a year and a half ago, I suppose. He says: students with a general academic profile in a specific direction and level of education if they have a first or second degree in this field... Well, Minister, he's not in first and second degree medical school, so this record... [[There's nursing and obstetrics.]] Yeah, but we're talking doctors. This record is kind of dead and here it's opening up a certain blockage. I understand that we should consider a broader amendment, but since the Seym is at the end of Law 2.0, I understand that right now we have an emergency problem that needs to be resolved in some way. It was further mentioned that it was as if it had been brought to an academic level, etc. I don't want to expand on that. There have been questions about this Bologna process. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are certain superstitions. I must say that as chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports in the Senate, I held conferences on the Bologna Process. We know the Bologna process only because it's first and second degree. And the Bologna process is seven intensive courses, because there is internationalisation, there is quality, mobility, equivalent education, etc., etc. So let's look at the whole thing. Moreover, in different countries of Europe, the applicability of the Bologna process varies, so let's keep our wisdom here and have some knowledge. It should be emphasized that Polish medical education is at the highest level in the world. It must be said that this is the only direction in Poland that has American accreditation. It's just been five years, and now we have extended this accreditation for another five years. Students from the United States come here to study. I think those committees where the professors of medical sciences sit here at the highest level will assess this proposal and decide. And I think it is important to thank medical universities for their efforts, for the difficult and long studies that burden students and professors, and to hope that these solutions that we are talking about today will bear fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u377	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u378	First of all, I would like to thank you for these comprehensive answers, especially Minister Radziwiłł and the representative of the Ministry of Health, because I am not a specialist here. You don't always have... Well, there's been a remark about the humanities. I would like to say that humanities tend not to educate unemployed people. It's not like that. These people find work very easy. They are also prepared for quite broad horizons and non-narrow specialization, so they find work. Unfortunately, not always in his profession, it's true. So you have to tell the difference. And we have virtually no unemployment, because that which is in Poland, it is already, I would say, a hygienic level of unemployment which should just be. That's one point. In turn, I think what you said about values, about ethics, about the Christian university... Actually, I agree with this, especially since I have the impression that there has been something wrong with medical ethics in Poland for years at all. We feel like something's going on. I don't know if it's just me or if there's any research going on. But something's wrong, because we hear about various cases of doctor anesthetic, non-acceptance, referrals, leaving patients under the hospital, etc., etc. Well, some cold recipes are one thing, but man, ethics, etc... Well, that must be worrying. Next thing you know, no doctors. I agree that in such a situation as we have on the medical market right now, this is a very important matter. But I also remind you that it's important that these doctors don't leave the country after graduation. We've had protests recently, we've actually had a difficult situation all the time. This solution is not in the number of students here, but also in terms of earnings for these young residents, etc. And that's what we need to remember. Finally, a few more words to Minister Radziwiłł, because your speech sounded quite ideological. I'm kind of used to it, because I listen to you from time to time, and I know that you like to emphasize your values, your faith, and so on. Notabene, I'm a believer, but I don't think that's the subject of a Senate meeting. However, I would just like to protest against a certain way of thinking. What I'm saying is that non-believers or non-Catholics may be guided by certain values, too, and a Catholic may not be guided by values. And unfortunately so, there are examples. Pay attention to this, Minister, because you attribute certain values only to the Catholic faith. It's not like that, and it's... You should know the teaching of the Church; neither does the teaching of the Church say that values are related only to Catholic faith. I can assure you that a cold technique may be an unbeliever, but it may also be a Catholic. It's also possible to meet with cases like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u379	Thank you. Senator Radziwiłł wants to speak? In what mode? Is that correct or... [[Corrections.]] Corrections. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u380	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I didn't say anything in my mouth that you put in the senator's mouth. I have no doubt that to be a good doctor, you have to be a good person, and to be a good person, you have to respect values. That's it. That's it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u381	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[In this situation, Mr. Marshal, we can go home now.]] [[One more bill.]] [[Oh, one more bill.]] I'm declaring a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 56 to 19 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the eighth agenda: the Law amending the Law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 867 and the report of the Commission In print No 867 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration discussed the proposed amendment on 26 June this year. What does this amendment contain? It is intended to increase and secure, and facilitate our use of mServices. It's the first thing. In addition, it extends the capacity of operators who will provide such services. So far they have been public entities, and now they could also be commercial entities. This law, this amendment, sets out the conditions under which this can be implemented. It also sets out a scheme for how this will be implemented. He's talking about the so-called. a national node which will be a means of electronic identification. This will include both electronic identification systems and ICT systems. A cross-border node will also be connected to this junction. This cross-border node will serve people who would like to log in from outside our country, also use such services. In addition, this law allows us to introduce applications for citizens through which we could use these mServices, and also creates a framework, a legal basis, so that when such an application is ready, it can be used. These are the main elements that this amendment contains. The day before yesterday, at the committee meeting, the Minister discussed the changes that the bill brings together, the beginning of the joint committee meeting. The legislator then put forward proposals for amendments. These proposals were contained in 5 points. It is important that in 5 points, because these proposals for amendments were actually 6 because the first point consisted of 2 points. Three senators took part in the discussion. Senator Zientarski asked not so much about the bill as about the course of legislative work, but specifically about the vote related to this law. I asked a few questions about the organisational and technical details of this law. Senator Florek has taken over the amendments proposed by your legislator. And as I said, they were in 5 points, but point 1 contained 2 proposals for amendments. They were put to the vote, all approved unanimously. Then we moved on to a vote on the bill. 8 senators were in favour of this law, no one opposed it, 2 abstentions. The joint committees shall ask the High House to adopt this law together with the amendments adopted. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u383	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Marek Zagórski, like to speak? [[No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask... [[Senator Grodzki reporting.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a brief practical question. I had a question from my constituents from a small town. There is no doubt that the bill is useful, that we will not avoid electronization, etc. There are scheduled dates for entering into force of individual points, but if you could answer, when, as I say, it will go under the heft, so that the whole country will be covered by this scattered system referred to in the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u385	Minister, answer Senator Grodzki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! We're probably talking about two different issues. The Act first of all introduces a new model of digital identity, which in turn allows us to issue electronic identification means, i.e. our digital identity, not only by the state but also by other entities. The State is currently an exhibitor of a measure called: a trusted profile. The users of this measure are 1 million 800,000 citizens. This law introduces the possibility for other entities to create electronic identification systems under the supervision of the State. We're assuming that in a group of entities that want to do this first... Well, we assume, but we can even make sure it's the banks along with the National Settlement Chamber, because that's the kind of conversation we're having. This will allow for an easier, more widespread system of distribution and the establishment of these measures, given that banks will be all the more interested. Thus, I will say again: guaranteed by the State, albeit not issued by the State. It is likely that within a year from the date of the entry into force of the Act, it will be possible for several million citizens who are users of electronic banking to set up themselves. What is the difference between a trusted profile and a means of electronic bank identification? First of all, that a state measure, a public measure, or a trusted profile, can only be used in administration, in administration services, while commercial systems can be used through integration with so-called. the national hub, which is such an organizational and technical solution, will be able to... We will be able to authenticate ourselves with this means of commercial identification in the administration, but also in commercial services. Thus, having one means of identification We misjudged it, but for the purpose of some explanation of the situation, we call it one login We will be able to authenticate ourselves with this means of identification both in the administration and in commercial services, e.g. Shopping in an online store. How's it practically look? Practically it looks like today we have to register in the system, give our data, etc. Verification takes place e.g. by paying with a payment card, which makes it difficult for us to function as citizens, and in the case of small operators who conduct online trade, it practically prevents the use of different types of promotional, marketing techniques, because it is not certain who is on the other side until the person does not make the transfer. It's also an element of growing business. I also want to say that this knot... Now that I'm explaining it, what I'm trying to say is this is how it's gonna work... One of the components of the system that we model is so-called. cross-border node. It is a solution that allows people who identify themselves using electronic means issued in other European Union countries to use administrative services in Poland and will allow Polish citizens to use such services in other European Union countries. What else does that have to do with flaws? I look at Minister Radziwiłł and I would like to say that the universality of means of identification is one of the key elements in modernising and computerising health services. This will give assurance, confirmation that the benefit has taken place in the health care system. This will also allow I am talking about means of electronic identification and online services to use services such as remote registration or e-registration in health systems. You will also be able to access your individual patient account and have access to full history and all data. An element of this system, I'm already talking about the whole composition. There will also be an e-proof with an electronic layer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u387	The senator wants to ask you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u388	Thank you very much. That sounds fantastic and hopefully it'll come true. But I have a question. I'm based on my own experience. Due to my profession, I had to register in the system of monitoring training in medicine, in SMC. It's not easy for a 60-year-old, even with titles. Some of my friends just gave it up. Question. It'll make sense if it's common. Right? How does the Minister estimate? When it actually becomes common and as much as it is said, user friendly, so that all citizens... Because, yeah, I'd say, patchwork is what we use for some of these things. We pay by card, we pay by phone, we log in somewhere. But it's all really uncoupled. This is a project that, at least in theory, seems extremely promising. When will he be universal? How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u389	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u390	As regards the means of identification, which are an important key element, I assume that this universality, as a result of the fact that there will be a new exhibitor, should appear after about a year. The bill, if everything goes well, should enter into force at the turn of August and September. Then we'll start the procedure for accreditation of identification systems, which will probably take some time. However, the work on the part of the National Settlement Chamber is so advanced that when all formal issues are dealt with, technical solutions should, so to speak, follow them. The same applies to the national hub for which the Ministry is responsible. We have been working with the National Settlement Chamber for a long time. This cooperation enabled applications for 500+ to be submitted electronically. So technically, all of this will be possible. Another element is joining the national hub of various public platforms, possibly commercial nodes. This process is planned according to the law. Now release me of necessity... I can, of course, take a look. I don't remember it exactly, and I don't want to twist it. As a rule, 2020 is the limit here. Later, all specified systems should be connected. The order is there. Means of identification will facilitate all this. This connection is important because we can identify in most state systems today, as the senator said, first of all, using the profile of a trusted... Not all systems respect it, and it works selectively. If we want to make a tax return, we can sign some e-declarations using a trusted profile and some can't. It's slow... All of this will be subject to the process of integration. We hope that this process will proceed faster, because what's important in all this is... It's kind of like a feedback loop and this kind of interrelationship. If there are few users, few people who have a means of identification, which is a trusted profile... There are few of them, among others. because there are not enough mature, attractive e-services in the administration. On the other hand, however, if the operators who are obliged to introduce these services do not have pressure in the form of a dozen million users who would like to do so, this process is simply slowed down. This mechanism... Regardless of the fact that we provide for a legal procedure for integration with a national hub, we assume that this will speed up this process of integration. We're hoping that's also... The same is not difficult in itself. The establishment of a trusted profile through an electronic banking account is today an easy process for a 60-year-old or older, but it is always associated with some concerns. To be honest, if I have a profile that I trust only one thing a year, it's not attractive to me. Right? But, of course, we encourage you to do so universally and massly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u391	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna put a little bit of it in that honey barrel. Well, I am opposed to the transfer of powers by the State, i.e. both responsibilities and powers, to the private sector in a way, I would call it unreflective. That's what I thought it was... Of course, nothing happened at the time, but we have seen the beginnings of this on the 500+ program. It could be applied electronically for money from this program also with the help of a banking network. And we see more and more often that the State transfers its prerogatives to, let's call it a general banking system. Let us remember that the banking system is a private system There is no official authority there. The banking system is still based on a kind of voluntary, so to speak, both the user and the bank in relation to the user. The bank has no obligation e.g. setting up an account for the user. We agree on that, don't we? And now, on the one hand, the state is handing over its powers to banks, as I said, as if it were to reject it, saying, "You guys do it, because you've probably already done something, because there is an electronic banking system that you know well about, so take care of it. And on the other hand, the same country doesn't do what it's responsible for, it doesn't do it right. Slip on the introduction of an e-recipe system... e-recipe, right? Am I right? The doctor's gonna make me feel better... [[Mr. Senator, please proceed to the question.]] I'm about to conclude. Next: CEPIK 2.0... Well, clearly discouraged the electronic system of nationwide. I am no longer talking about what happens when documents are transferred to courts and these documents are returned electronically. The question is, are we going in the right direction? Shouldn't we focus on what we should be most concerned about, i.e. computerising the administration, above all the administration, because it should be she who pulls the rest, not ceding our powers Our own or state-owned private entities to a certain extent uncontrollable?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u393	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u394	Mr. Senator, this is a very interesting topic. We had a discussion in the government about this, and there were some concerns that the senator was talking about. This is, of course, a dilemma as far as the state should cooperate and cooperate with the business in the service of its citizens, and as far as it should maintain certain functions only for itself. In this case, I want to reassure you. First of all, this is not just about banks. We have a lot of mechanisms for who we're going to give these powers, control mechanisms, checks. At the last stage of the work on the Law, we have introduced additional elements that allow for control, verification, verification of entities controlling entities that may be seeking to issue... for the creation of such a system. In order for such an entity to be able to apply for it in the first place, the Internal Security Agency will need approval. That's one thing. Secondly, even though we are talking about digital identity, etc., at no stage is the state does not transfer to these entities the data of citizens, because the issuer of the means of identification will only be able to do so on the basis of the data which he himself had already acquired, which the citizen had previously given him. This is the case with banks. With the 500+ program, when establishing a profile we trust, the only thing we do is confirm whether the data that the bank has, especially the PESEL number previously collected from the citizen who created the account, because such data must be collected by the bank... PESEL number, name, address of residence, date of birth are basic data, basic set of information about the citizen. The only thing that's going on in this trial is to confirm that it's true. We call it a PESEL shot. We're just checking to make sure everything's okay. If it is not okay, it is not possible to assume or verify. So the exhibitors of the means of identification will only have the data that citizens themselves will voluntarily make available to them. At the same time, there will be a large control by the state, because not everyone will be able to set up such a system and display means of identification. And this is one essential part of the answer to your question. We actually focus on administration. There are, of course, slippages in a lot of things. It's a long time to discuss what they've come from, but it's not like the senator says that citizens are offended, for example. CepiK, because I'm trying to say I'm going to defend him now, even though I was a critic of how he was implemented, and I had to devote a few months of my own to keeping him stable. The fact that this non-workable CEPiK allowed registration during the same period, year to year, from January to May, half a million more cars. This year we registered 2 million 800 thousand and last year 2 million 300 thousand. That's one thing. Secondly, he allowed us to adopt solutions such as the lack of the need to have a registration card or an OC insurance. We're gonna be... [[It's time-delayed.]] It's not time-delayed. In accordance with the Act, which the High House has also adopted, a mechanism has been developed which authorised the Minister of Digitisation after the agreement to issue the communication, and we still have to wait three months for everyone to be well prepared for these different solutions. I can say, unofficially, because it's gonna happen officially tomorrow, that I'm gonna sign this message tomorrow, and it won't be necessary to carry these documents with me from October 1st. This is just a fraction of the possibilities that these systems give. And that critical mass that's... So that we can talk about definitive acceleration, that's ♪ As I said ♪ We also need to put a little pressure on various service exhibitors. Because it's not that only the Ministry of Digitalization generates services in the administration, it's done by many ministries. Some do it much better than the Ministry of Digitalization, not all of them. Let's just say the minister of digitalization is always on the podium. Anyway, there are those where these services are very advanced, but there are those that don't, because they say there's no need. So we want to force a little bit and gradually integrate the various services offered by the various administrations. This whole process is planned. When we talk about delays, I want to make this clear. In most cases, not in all cases, but in most cases they are not due to the fact that something has been done too slowly, only because ambitiously and for reasons often... It sounds nice when we say that the system will be ready in two years, and at the start, when the first action was started, it was known that in two years it could not be done. Just no system as complicated as e.g. CepiK... Nobody does that. When banks build their systems, they build them with evolutionary methods for a few years, and no one has any complaints about it happening because it just happens. Such systems are not built in such a way that a ready solution is brought in and implemented. If there are smaller applications, yes, there is. But big systems take time, they need testing. Besides, they require not only IT solutions, but also the training of officials, their equipment, as well as the matching of procedures that are in offices. This is also very important, because if the system changes, the procedure changes and the organisational structure of the office does not fit, it will not work either. So that we try to keep all this in mind and maintain control. As I say, at the last stage, we have added a few more solutions that will strengthen this control. Well, in some areas we should also work with business.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u395	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u396	Thank you. Message one. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Trade Unions and certain other Acts will take place on 29 June, Friday, 8.30 p.m. in room 176. Message two. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the submitted proposals for the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws, Senate printing No 840, will take place tomorrow, 29 June, at 8.45 p.m. in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-28-senat-62-2.u397	Thank you. We're adjourned until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Meeting adjourned at 19 minutes 27]]
