ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, on the seventy-fifth anniversary of the apogee of the crimes committed by the Ukrainian Uprising Army on Polish residents of Volyn and Małopolska Eastern, we honor the memory of the murdered, as well as condemn the murderers and demand the possibility of worthy honoring the victims, including exhumation of their collective graves. We expect international cooperation, based on a fair presentation of history, to exclude the glorification of the perpetrators and participants of these crimes. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the victims of this crime. [[Everybody up.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on Tax Ordination and some other laws. and consider this item as item 19 of the agenda; amendment of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator And considering this point as point 20... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please don't talk. You're acting weird, at least. [[I'm sorry.]] [[Excuse us.]] Sorry, you can't do that. ...Law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and consider this item as item on the 20th agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Senator Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u2	There's an objection.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u3	Objection. To? [[Mr. Marshal...]] To one and the other? [[To both of them.]] To both of them. Then we'll vote. Not separately, just for both... Is there any other proposal that excludes one point and the other leaves? No. Then we'll vote... Who among the senators and ladies is in favour of my proposal to complete the agenda with items: the Law on amending the Act on taxation and certain other laws and the Act on amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator? Who's in favour of my offer? Who's against the proposal? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 64 senators voted, 43 for, 21 against. (Vote No 1) My proposal has been accepted. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the organisational issues concerning the procedure of the remaining laws. In a moment we will proceed with the examination of the 18th, i.e. the law on the national cybersecurity system. Then we will consider paragraph 19 concerning the change of tax ordination. After these points, we will proceed with the examination of paragraphs 5 and 6, i.e. Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence and the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue. The next points will be the sixteenth point, i.e. State aid law on the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment, and point 17, the Law on facilitation in the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments. The last item on the agenda will be the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the act on the national cybersecurity system. The text of the Act is contained in print No 893, and the report of the Commission In print No 893 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Michał Potowy, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On 9 July a joint meeting of the National Defence Committee and the Infrastructure Committee was held to discuss the National Cybersecurity Act. The bill was a government project. It aims to implement into the Polish legal order Directive 2016/1148 of the European Parliament on measures for a high common level of security of networks and information systems throughout the Union. The Directive lays down obligations to ensure cybersecurity of information systems in services sectors which are essential for maintaining critical socio-economic activities, i.e. energy, transport, banking, financial institutions, health, water supply and digital infrastructure. The effect of the regulation, as underlined in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, is to increase the resilience of key services provided using information technology to attacks from cyberspace. Thus, the Act aims to ensure the continuity of these services so that both citizens and businesses have permanent and undistorted access to them. The scope and basis of the bill were provided by Minister Karol Okoński from the Ministry of Digitalization. Minister Skurkiewicz of the Ministry of National Defence did not comment on this project. The Legislative Office has submitted seven points which were supposed to correct the project's records, but all of them have been dismissed by the Okonski Minister due to the lack of application. Moreover, these comments concerning the order of record did not have a significant impact on the content of the law itself. The votes of the joint committees cast 11 votes in favour of the bill, no one protested. The discussion on the bill lasted about 30 minutes and was related to some minor technical formulas that could be concluded around the law. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Mr... [[There isn't.]] Excuse me? No questions, no questions, no doubts. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. The Secretary of State, Minister Karol Okoński, is here. You are also Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okonski: No.]] No. Good. There might be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes, Senator Klich. Minister, you're welcome to speak to the speaker. There you go. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u6	Minister, of course, it is commendable that such a system related to cybersecurity is currently being modified. After all, he already existed. But, as with any system related to cybersecurity threats, there must be a dozen different players here. I have two questions. First. What is the role of the leading institution? How do you see the state of the institution's preparation for this role? Two. What is at this stage of creation of this system... What is the combination of the individual elements of this system when it comes to preparing to run it? How does it look today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. One moment, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Then please, Minister, answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As far as the role of the Ministry of Digitalization is concerned, it is in this law, it can be said, multidimensional, mainly because the Ministry of Digitalization is the institution that plays a role in planning and coordinating cybernetic activities in the international space. There is a Government Response Team for Computer Incidents, which belongs to NASK. This institution shall be subordinate to the Ministry of Digitalization and shall be such a contact point for the exchange of information with other Member States of the European Union. In addition, this law is the result of the implementation of the NIS Directive, which is also the result of the implementation of the NIS Directive. ensure that this information also between countries is transferred as quickly and smoothly as possible in order to coordinate those incidents that go beyond the Member State concerned. So here this contact point is placed indirectly in the Ministry of Digitalization. The Minister of Digitization is also a member of the so-called. a cooperation group that coordinates at strategic level cybersecurity-related tasks in Europe. The Ministry of Digitalization is also responsible for preparing strategies for cybersecurity in Poland. Such a strategy currently exists, called the national cybersecurity policy framework for 2017 and 202022. Another strategy, i.e. This will already be a document, but the title will include a strategy to be prepared by October next year. And she will somehow consummate the experience of the current implementation of the policy and the assessment of the implementation of the law itself one year after its implementation. Because let us remember that the very way in which this law is implemented is also connected with the choice of the so-called. key operators for key services. The deadline for the selection of these operators is 9 November, so de facto after 9 November the practical implementation of this law will take place. As far as the state of preparation is concerned, I can say that this central institution or those central institutions that are currently involved in coordinating and managing computer incidents are those institutions that already exist. Because we're talking about MIL-CERT, which is a unit that, within the Ministry of National Defence, deals with incidents in an area under the Ministry of National Defence. We also have CERT. GOV, who deals with incidents in the area of critical infrastructure supervised by the ABW. And we already have the NASK mentioned here, which already plays the role of an institution that collects reports from the area... from all other areas except the two previously mentioned. Thus, these institutions already exist and have many years of experience in this area. In response to your question about the state of preparation in this area and the question of combination or coordination, I will say that these institutions have been working together for many years. And at a time when an incident reported to NASK bears either a sign that it concerns critical infrastructure, or a sign of a crime, cooperation with the police or the justice system is immediately established here. So it can be said that this law is a system that introduces in an orderly manner or sanctiones certain things that have been implied, and clearly sets limits for cooperation so that this cooperation does not leave any doubt and may not give rise to any discussion about the division of competences, etc. And these proposals on the role of individual institutions are also based on the experience that has been gained from the cooperation so far. That's why this bill calls things anew, i.e. it gives some institutions new names or assigns them new roles, but it largely has experience in carrying out tasks that have been done simply for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u9	Senator Grubski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, what budget are you planning here? Analyzing the appearances in the Sejm, it can be noted that there was a ripple involved in the fact that these measures were not secured. And the institutions that will carry out certain activities, several arise. What kind of money is that gonna be? And second question. At a committee meeting, one issue raised doubts in some sense. It was a matter of individual incidents that could occur. Could the Minister also refer to how the citizen should react if such an incident occurs, to whom it is reported and what is the procedure in this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u12	I have a question for Minister Skurkiewicz regarding internal coordination in the Ministry of National Defence between the CSIRT and this institution, which has been called differently in the past, from the Cyber Security Centre through some cryptographic center, and which is responsible for active cybersecurity activities. I mean, it's not passive, it's active cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u13	Okay, thank you. I ask you, Minister, to answer the first question, and then Minister Skurkiewicz will answer Senator Klich's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So this budget, which is in the so-called. The OSR, in the impact assessment of the regulation prepared in connection with this law, is necessarily not the overall budget of cybersecurity in Poland. With regard to 2 of the 3 main institutions involved in this management of the cybersecurity area, in combating the consequences of any incidents occurring in this area, i.e. as regards the ABW and the Ministry of National Defence, these institutions are implementing this system in respect of the expenditure limits previously provided for in the Budget Act, whether in relation to defence matters, as regards the MONs or other matters relating to the budget of the ABW. There's one small difference, and it actually was. it is also the subject of the parliamentary amendment in the Sejm. An additional budget of about a few million a year has been guaranteed, depending on the year. As far as the implementation of this special scheme is concerned, so-called. the early warning system, in those institutions that belong to critical infrastructure, in fact the ABW, as it is a completely new undertaking, requested additional measures. The remaining budget, which was entered in the Act, i.e. approx. 70 million PLN, is intended for the Ministry of Digitalization. First of all, it is about increasing the resources of the Ministry of Digitalization as this institution, which at the same time is the competent authority and has these additional tasks that I have mentioned earlier, but also about building an IT system, which is to be the default system in which incidents will be recorded and where the process of exchanging information between institutions will be followed in the event of a notification, as well as about increasing the staffing in respect of salaries in individual ministries, which are called. the competent authorities of the key sectors concerned. The law defines a number of sectors for which we consider them to be those sectors which, in order to maintain the continuity of state action and security in an area, whether economic or social, require special attention. These competent authorities, i.e. the Ministry and the Commission for Financial Supervision, have secured in the Act additional staff resources related to the care of these areas, on the issue of certain recommendations which are intended to affect the consistent management of cybersecurity in these areas. Thus, the amounts that you see in the Act are not full amounts for cybersecurity. These are the additional amounts resulting from the specific additional obligations imposed by the Act. And there's one more thing that's also worth paying attention to, at least when it comes to the ministry of digitalization. We support our actions, too. In particular, in the case of those projects that we are implementing the EU budget. Well, it's about EU funds within the National Centre for Research and Development. At this point projects are already being implemented, financed by the NCBiR, for the amount of over PLN 40 million. These are the additional resources used to build cybersecurity competences, so that it is not just about budget resources listed directly in the Act. Is it the budget, or is it the one currently under consideration? But also for additional European measures. Nor do we conceal our aspirations to use EU funds in the future, in particular that the European Commission, under the Multiannual Financial Framework, provides for or plans a completely new programme called Digital Europe for the coming years. Within this programme, security is one of the five key objectives of the programme. And we are also going to benefit from these measures. And the second question about individual incidents. As I informed at the committee meeting, although the law is more designed for the institution sector, those key to the economy, it also sanctiones what is happening now: that each individual user can report an incident to the so-called. CSIRT NASK. And this incident is normally treated like any other incident, it's being undertaken... By default, it has a lower priority than the others, but it is analyzed and when it turns out that it can affect an area wider than only an individual application of a given user, it in such a dimension of scaling the said reaction can also be treated as a critical incident, with all the consequences that are described in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u16	I will respond briefly to Senator Klich's question of internal coordination. As regards active protection, ladies and gentlemen, the Cyber Operations Centre is responsible for passive protection and CERT MON is responsible. Both of these institutions are directly subordinate to the National Cryptology Centre. These issues, which the Minister was talking about, are not explicitly included in this bill, but we at the Ministry of National Defence are currently working on completely new solutions, on the Cyber Troops Act, and what we are talking about here, will be included, among others. in this bill. And I hope that soon we will meet in the Senate to discuss these issues in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you, Minister of Digitization. There are no deadlines in the bill, no deadlines to... There is no record that an incident specified on a given scale would be corrected e.g. In a while. Is the Minister able to say... Because we had examples of a cyber attack probably on Latvia or Estonia, such a massive attack. If this were the case, how long would such incidents be repaired, from critical down?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u19	You're welcome, Minister. Wait a minute. Are there any more questions for the Minister or Minister Skurkiewicz? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u20	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, what the law introduces, and what we consider critical to the functioning and security of cyberspace in Poland, are the required deadlines for reporting the incident. Here the Act makes it clear that when it comes to a serious incident, it should be reported to the relevant CSIRT within 24 hours of detection. The point is to be able to react as soon as possible and to be able to react as quickly as possible. prevent, first of all, through an appropriate communication informing about the threat, but also about taking action, as well as cooperation with other individuals, if necessary. We are not in a position to enter the maximum time allowed to repair the incident because the scale of the possible effects or those, I would say, of the vulnerability that may be detected... It is not possible to systematically include this in the bill. These are very individual cases, sometimes requiring international cooperation as well. Thus, the law stresses above all the need to deal with the incident as quickly as possible, to exchange information in a coordinated manner, including at European level. And this is going to make it possible for the incident itself to be repaired as soon as possible. Nevertheless, as I say, the complexity of the subject is not possible in the law itself to enter a strict deadline with which the penalty would still be imposed. Because let's remember that when it comes to reporting, this is one of the key operators' obligations. This failure to notify within the time limit will be punishable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u21	Thank you very much. There are no more requests to ask questions, so thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 899 and the committee report In print No 899 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report on the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which took place today and concerned the Law amending the Law Purpose and subject of the bill. The main purpose of this law is to amend the provisions introduced into the legal system by the Law of 24 November 2017 amending certain laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud, so-called. STIR and, as a general rule, a change in the tax regime. The revised matter concerns the automatic establishment of a clearing house within the meaning of Article in the electronic system. 67 banking law, i.e. in the STIR system, on the basis of data from banks and cooperative savings and credit banks, the risk indicator of using banks and SKOKs to commit tax fraud. On the basis of a risk analysis, the head of the KAS is currently entitled to block the taxpayer's account, so-called. eligible entities. Part of the new solutions to the bill is due to the changes introduced on 1 July 2018 by the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws related to the mechanism for split VAT payments. These are both changes made to the STIR rules and changes not related to the STIR system. This amendment of the tax administration assumes, first of all, the abolition of the challenge of blocking the eligible entity's account for a period of 72 hours; the amendment of the appeal measure of the blockade for a period of up to 3 months; the appeal measure in the form of a request for review of the case was replaced by a complaint; the extension of the definition of the eligible entity's account by a split payment mechanism of the trader's VAT account; the inclusion of the definition of the eligible party's account; the introduction of the definition of a proxy in the eligible entity's account; changes in the scope of the time-limit; the information by the bank or the SKOK on the request of the eligible entity; the extension of the scope of the data transmitted daily by SKOK-i and banks is about the information about other locks and seizure of claims, the so-called number. a virtual account, an indication of the VAT account number for the account account or the SKOK account and add to the information sent on request information about IP addresses. It's about the bills the operations were made out of... And further: clarification of the provisions on extending the blocking of the eligible entity's account; changes to the transmission of risk indicator information; indication by the clearing house of discrepancies between the banks' or SKOKs' data and data from the Central Register of Entities National Taxpayers' records; processing of data by the clearing house; extension of the possibility to withdraw funds from the blocked account of the eligible entity For outstanding salaries and all maintenance; specifying the date of the fall of the blockade; applying the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure for fine payments. With regard to the amendments made in the Civil Procedure Code and the Enforcement Act in the Administration, they aim to eliminate doubts as to the possibility of seizing claims from the bank account during the period of the blocking of the account, against claims other than maintenance claims and remuneration from the employment relationship in the judicial execution. As regards the revision of banking law, it concerns the entry into force of the split payment mechanism. It indicates that it is not possible to charge a VAT account for payment by means of a transfer message if the payee's account is kept by a foreign bank or a credit institution which operates in the form of a branch in the territory of the Republic of Poland and is therefore not subject to Polish banking law. As regards the amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services, they relate to lists of entities not registered in the Ministry of Finance's Public Information Bulletin despite the application submitted as taxable persons of VAT, which were removed from the register ex officio without having to be notified or returned as taxable persons of VAT. In line with the reasons set out in the draft law, these amendments aim to increase the transparency of the lists, to clarify the conditions for deletion, to improve the legibility of the lists of re-established entities and to restore the taxable person to the register as a VAT taxable person in the European Union. The amendment to the SKOK Act extends from 3 to 6 months the period of interruption of the transaction or blocking of funds in the account by the prosecutor. It therefore harmonises the provision with an equivalent solution to banking law. The amendment of the Act on KAS concerns the audit supplement for carrying out checks on compliance with the obligations introduced by the Act STIR. The Act also modifies the transitional provisions of the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries concerning the planned list of countries which have undertaken to participate in the exchange of information on reported accounts. Following the entry into force of the split VAT payment mechanism, the amendment of the Act of 15 December 2017 amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws makes it possible to exclude from joint and several liability a taxable person other than that indicated on the invoice, who received payment in a split payment from the purchaser of goods and services on his VAT account after 1 July 2018, but himself made a payment to the supplier, the service provider indicated on the invoice before the entry into force of the rules on split payment. In principle, the Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. As far as the Legal Bureau's comments on the matter of the bill are concerned, the Bureau has identified four issues that it has doubts about. The first issue that followed during the committee meeting That's the question you asked Senator Klein. It is a question of abolishing the challenge of blocking the eligible entity's account for 72 hours. Mr. Vice-Minister's argument regarding these changes was that, in the previously adopted regulation... the provision of a law on the challenge of the decision to block an account is de facto not feasible due to proceedings before an administrative court. And it's right to get out of it. The point is that this recipe was de facto unused and has so far been applicable, if I remember correctly. Mr. Minister pointed that out. Only 2 accounts occupied... [[Locked.]] I'm sorry. Locked. The Ministry pointed out that such a lack of possibility it is not that I would say anything unusual, because similar regulations apply to the account blockades by the General Financial Information Inspector and the Financial Supervision Commission. In the same way it is solved. The Minister pointed out that in the event that the account was taken to the detriment of the owner and had some economic impact, the account holder could always apply for civil compensation. The second point raised at the committee's meeting was the issue of the entry into force of the tax ordination on 1 July and, in fact, the failure to meet the deadlines for the contested law and the rules that had already entered into force, because this law was passed by the Sejm on 5 July and was sent to the Senate on 6 July. The Legislative Office expressed its concern that this would result in the retroactivity of the bill. The Ministry assures us that there is no such possibility or threat. Moreover, these provisions are beneficial for the taxpayer, and this will not result in any negative effects on the taxpayer, so to speak. As regards the further comments submitted, there was one specific comment to which the Ministry referred. The Minister said it wouldn't be problematic, so to speak. And the last remark, which was quite important, was related to the fear of the Legislative Office that the entry into force of the Act and the transitional provisions could actually have caused... The regulation, which was temporarily maintained under the transitional provision, would cease to apply on 14 July. The response from the Ministry was that the draft new regulation is already being prepared, the regulation will be issued on 13 July, so the concerns of the Legislative Office are unreasonable. In addition, at the committee meeting, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki read a letter addressed to the committee, to the Marshal of the Senate, a letter from Minister Gruza requesting the bill to be treated as an urgent act because the delay in its adoption could have negative consequences. Questions were also raised at the committee meeting and concerns were raised by a representative of the National Chamber of Tax Advisers. There was some doubt, a matter of thought, namely the question of blocking the accounts. When an entity whose account is blocked has a tax liability to pay, i.e. de facto to the same authority... On the one hand, the tax authority blocks the account, on the other hand, there are some tax obligations. There's a concern that he's not going to be sanctioned for it in some way. On the part of your department director, the answer has been that there will be no sanctions. There was also a question about information, daily information sent... information sent to the head of the National Tax Administration about IP addresses. Wouldn't that agree with the constitutional right to privacy? About this type of information the head of the KAS will be acting accidentally That was the answer. They will be presented at the request of the head of the KAS and therefore there is no concern that the right to privacy will be compromised. During the committee meeting, she was still being raised. I was the one asking this question about extending the catalogue of information to which banks and cooperative credit and savings banks will be required to send to KAS. The director of the department answered these questions in quite detail, he presented the current state, he said what it looks like, what the data is currently being transmitted and how this catalogue will be expanded after the amendment of the law. During the meeting, we were also informed that the definition of the fixed-term deposit had been changed. The explanation from the ministry is that some entities... These short-term deposits are actually carried out in daily cycles or transferred to overnight deposits, so the balance at the end of the day of the bank accounts of the entities is often zero, because these funds, so to speak, are in night mode directed to overnight deposits. It was therefore necessary to clarify these regulations. We have also been informed at the committee meeting that there have been changes in the terms of representatives. From the Ministry it was argued that various levels of power of attorney are assigned to the accounts. In fact, the point is that it is possible to demonstrate the actual authorising officer so that there is no such situation that the notified authorising officer is e.g. a person who uses an ATM card or a credit card but does not operate on a bank account. These two types of power of attorney had to be separated, and that's what this bill is going to do. During the committee meeting following the vote, this government submission was recommended for adoption without amendments. The majority of committees supported this proposal and I therefore submit this report to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u23	Wait a minute. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Tomasz Robaczyński and Minister Paweł Cybulski. Do any of you wanna... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: No.]] No. At present, senators can report from an ongoing location... But please, Minister, because Senator Kleina will ask at least one question. [[One.]] One. Minister, please come to the podium. Come on in. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Senator Kleina will ask one question, and he will not be in the discussion. I have prepared an amendment which, however, goes back to the question of challenging the decision to block the account. So far, there has been a situation that this provision has been in operation in this law. The minister at the committee meeting said that there was virtually no problem with this recipe. However, it seems to me that the possibility of appealing against a decision, which will not be taken in practice by a man, because it will result from automatic procedures, the automatic machines will generate those accounts that are scheduled to be blocked... So it seems to me that a citizen should have the right to appeal against such a decision, even if it were to continue and the final decision would be taken after the account was unblocked, all the more so because then it would be easier for a citizen or an entrepreneur to seek compensation for an incorrect decision. I therefore have a question for the Minister: would it not be worth leaving this provision as it has been so far? All the more so because for less than a year of operation of the Act there have been no cases related precisely to the challenge of incorrect decisions. Such a safety gate, it seems, would be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, please... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: Dear Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me, Minister. Aside from the senator, are they still... No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u26	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to answer this question maybe in such a broader context. Well, first of all, why do we want to make these changes when it comes to STIR? First of all, because we want to seal the tax system, especially the VAT system. This is the consequence of what we have done so far, of our determination and of everything we do in the framework of tax sealing. As far as the challenge is concerned, the issue of the challenge, of course, this is a matter that requires some consideration, consideration, but we have already talked about the fact that the challenge would generally work... The court's decision on appeals would be ex post. Here we have 72 hours to block, it's such a time, a 72-hour block, and I don't suspect that the court will at that time take a stand to challenge these actions concerning the blockade. Of course, the challenge in general in tax proceedings and in the entire tax process exists as much as possible, so we can always apply such solutions at a later stage of the procedure. The tax procedure will continue, and here is the speech only about securing our risk analysis activities. Surely the actions taken by the National Tax Administration, when it comes to blocking accounts, will be reasonable, reasonable, risk-based, in-depth risk analysis, and therefore there is no major concern that we will be acting unlawfully. And the prosecution... Well, I don't know what the effect would be if it didn't actually have that effect... 'Cause there's only 72 hours to get the account blocked. By the way, I would also like to say that we already have the first cases of blockades. These are blockages applied on the basis of specific risks, which clearly indicate that they have committed infringements. Once again, I would like to stress that we will act wisely and analyse all cases carefully. We're not gonna operate from a vending machine, we're not gonna block out those taxpayers' accounts that we have no doubt about. I can only stress here once again from the speaker that we will act wisely in this matter. And taxpayers who are honest, tax advisors and all entities operating in Poland who are honest can sleep peacefully. There is absolutely no possibility of blockages being made against legal market players who fairly account for the state budget. [[That's in a different system we've heard.]] [[And what kind of system was that?]] Maybe. [[He misses you, Mietek misses you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u27	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In the light of this law, transitional provisions of the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries are also amended. And I have a question about that. Because the opinion refers to a planned full list of countries which have committed themselves to taking part in the exchange of such information. Could the Minister determine whether these are all the countries of the European Union and what countries outside the European Union have committed themselves to this exchange? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u29	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u30	As far as this question is concerned, I would like to answer them in very detail, but at the moment I do not have the necessary detailed knowledge. I think we'll answer in writing. [[Well, let's put it in writing. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u31	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Paweł Cybulski: Thank you very much.]] I open the discussion and inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... Oh, no, that's not it. I'm sorry. It's not here, it's here... Oh, that's before... I'm opening... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody signed up. I would like to inform you that legislative proposals have been made in writing by Senator Kazimierz Klein and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposal put forward? No. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposal and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Centennial. The text of the Act is contained in print No 863, and the committee report In print No 863 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century, contained in print No 863. Hello, Minister. [[Oh, there's the minister.]] The bill adopted today, coming from the presentation of the President, was presented by Minister Wojciech Kolarski of the President's Chancellery during the committee's deliberations, and the legislative process in the Sejm was presented by the rapporteur, Tadeusz Wozniak. The purpose of the bill, as I said, from the presentation of the President of the Republic of Poland What is written in the Act is the establishment of a new award: Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. The award of the medal is intended to be a form of distinction between people connected with regaining and strengthening independence of the Republic of Poland. The establishment of this medal is part of the initiative of the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of Reclaiming Independence of the Republic of Poland, but at the same time refers to the Medal of the Tenth Anniversary of Recovered Independence established by the Council of Ministers in 1928. I would add from myself that then the government, justifying the establishment of this medal, argued inter alia. in such words:, commemorating the decade of the rebirth of the Polish State, which, after more than a hundred years of captivity, thanks to bloody efforts in the fields of battle and the undead work of the best of their sons, was called back to life, are very beautiful words of justification from 90 years ago. The symbolism of the proposed medal refers to the identification mark, so to speak, all of us, Poles of the White Eagle, supported by a ribbon with the inscription "Polonia Rediviva" or "Polish Reborn." The eagle is placed on a diverse surface suggesting a wave flag, rising to flight, although by some committee members it has been interpreted and understood as sitting on a nest. But I think that even if he sat on a nest, it was almost as if he had taken over all those districts of Poland, which in 1918 constituted our matrix. Furthermore, it is important that the Heraldic Commission considered the appearance of the medal to be entirely in line with the rules for the creation of such marks. I would like to add that on the reverse, smooth side of the medal are convex initials of the Republic of Poland, with dates These leaves of Lorenzo and oak with fruits symbolize the merits of the Polish state. As I mentioned, the medal will be a commemorative award given to Polish citizens during the national celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, i.e. in the years 2018 and 2021. A special committee was set up in connection with these celebrations. The medal will be given to citizens And here I'm going to quote the bill again. For those living who, by performing impeccable public service, civil or military service, struggle for independence and activities for democratic change, active professional and social activities, scientific, literary and artistic works, contributed to regaining or strengthening the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland, including in particular the building of the civic community of Poles and the sense of national identity, the development of science, the fame of the good name of the Republic of Poland, etc. This award will be given to both combatants, people working for democratic change and representatives of the young generation, e.g. athletes who are successful, as well as those who are successful in the fields of science and the economy. Interestingly, this medal will also be available to Members and Senators, which is a certain event, as well as local government officials, representatives of public benefit organisations, associations, entrepreneurs, employees of various industries. In this context, discussions took place during the committee's deliberations. The opposition senators pointed out that since the honor will be given by the president, well, a known political option, will it not be so that this medal will be, so to speak, for my own. At the same time, it was stressed that giving this medal would also be a test, a real test for the President, and it is about how and who will be awarded this award. Personally, I am convinced that the medal will not be awarded according to the political key, but will be available to all who deserve it. The discussion also focused on people and environments who should have the initiative to apply for a medal. Senator Andrzej Kobiak tabled an amendment to extend the applicant's catalogue to include a group of 10 Members or 5 Senators. The amendment was not supported, as the Act contains a delegation for the President of the Republic to issue a regulation setting out the procedure for dealing with cases for the award of a medal. The provisions of the Orders and Awards Act are applicable here. Thus, the medal is awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland either on his own initiative or at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Head of Central Offices and Voivodeships. There were votes at the committee meeting that the medal could devalue itself because millions of people today deserve such a medal because they are successful in their fields, etc. It has been said that the fact that a large number of people are likely to receive this medal may have an impact on the fact that this medal will not have that meaning. I would not be afraid of that, because those who receive it will be individualities in their fields and each of them in their own way will be deserved for Poland. Here's another thing. There was an amendment to the law I personally notified it; it was supported by it to extend the time limit for the award of the medal until 2022, in which year the celebration of the century of joining Upper Silesia to the reborn Republic will take place. I will remind you that such an amendment was also tabled at second reading in the Sejm, but did not pass. In my opinion, it was not properly justified there. It should be remembered that only after the winning third Silesian Uprising did the part of Upper Silesia find itself in the Republic of Poland. Therefore, it is very important that the President can award this medal in 2022 so that we can enjoy the celebration of independence longer, especially since this year there will be numerous celebrations in Silesia related to the 100th anniversary of Silesia's return to motherhood. It is true that the third Silesian uprising broke out in 1921, but formally part of Upper Silesia was joined to Poland only a year later, namely on 15 June 1922, the intersociate committee called on Poland and Germany to take over their part in the disputed area. On 17 June Katowice left the French garrison. On 20 June the Polish army entered Silesia. And you can say that actually only from that day on the creation of Polish administration began in Silesia, the construction period of the Polish administration began. But, what is important, the act of this symbolic gesture of acceptance by Poland of Upper Silesia was signed in Katowice only on 16 July 1922. I am not going to take part in the debate, which is why I am talking about it. I would like to appeal to the President, the Minister, the representative of the President's Office, to the senators for the adoption of this amendment, so that this medal may also be given in 2022 to those Silesians who are now serving to unite Silesia with their homeland. I think that because independence is not given to us once and for all, given the activities of the center in Silesia, especially the Silesian Autonomy Movement, this commemorative medal will not only be one of the forms of commemoration of the anniversary of the century of independence, but will also be an expression of gratitude for contributing to the strengthening of the Polish state for those Poles who feel Silesians and serve our homeland with all their heart and talents. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the Committee on Culture and Media recommends The Senator abstained from voting, with an amendment to the Act establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Centennial. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u33	Thank you, Senator. Stay here for a minute. At present, senators may raise a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Senator Florek volunteered first. Then Senator Jackowski, then Marshal Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I am not a member of the cultural committee, but from what I read, it appears that the medal will be given to Polish citizens, not to organizations, but to Polish citizens. And what you said was that the medal could also be given to Members and Senators, of course I was very surprised. I would like to know at what point of the bill it is written that this medal can be received by Members and Senators. Art. 7th Act states that the provisions of the Orders and Awards Act apply to matters not governed by the Act. Members and senators shall not be entitled to medals during their term of office. So I'd like to be here... Where I'm trying to find a record that permits it right now. Is it written down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u35	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u36	Mr. Senator, this is a memorial medal. Although it will be awarded according to the provisions of the Orders and Awards Act by the President, it will be awarded to all Polish citizens. If we excluded Members and Senators from this, it would mean that we are not members of this nation. [[One more time, please.]] That's why there's a very wide list here... In fact, there is no list, only any citizen can receive this medal if duly justified. [[One more time, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u38	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, Art. 7 says clearly, I quote to you: "In matters not governed by the law." The provisions of the Law of 16 October 1992 on Awards and Awards shall not apply to these matters. And here there is no possibility, and there is no way to give these decorations to Members and Senators. [[Yes, you can.]] If it's written somewhere, please... Because I'm gonna file a motion to make sure it doesn't happen. [[But you can.]] It's been like this so far, so where is it written... [[Now you can!]] I repeat, where is it written that you can? [[And those of Solidarity get it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u39	Mr. Senator, sign up for the floor. You have a voice, Senator Richard. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u40	The President will issue an appropriate regulation on the award of this medal, but, as I say, we cannot exclude ourselves from receiving this commemorative medal. If you want to make an amendment to rule out Members and Senators, go ahead. [[I'm coming in again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u41	I'm gonna... I'm gonna... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u42	One more time, I'll just fill it in. Mr. Senator, it is written that the President of the Republic of Poland will determine by regulation... And it's still written down what he's gonna say. And there it's clearly, enumeratively mentioned, what it's going to say. He can't define what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u43	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. You mentioned this in your report that you tabled an amendment extending the time allowed for this medal to be given by 2022. Perhaps you should remind us, because perhaps not everyone in the High House knows what the position of the applicant's representative, Mr Kolarski, was in relation to this amendment. Was it positive or negative? And what was the result of the vote on this amendment during the committee's work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u45	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u46	Mr Senator, Minister Wojciech Kolarski supported this amendment, although, as I said, it was lost in the Sejm, but was poorly justified at the time. As for the result of the vote, only 1 senator abstained. So that also the opposition senators, apart from the one who abstained from voting, supported and supported the bill, and this amendment. I just want to repeat that the main celebrations in Silesia will be in 2022. It will be a great opportunity for the President to honor, honor, reward with this Silesian medal, who today work for the good of the country and feel Silesian. I myself am a Silesian, although mostly Polish, but in Silesia this sense of being a Silesian is very vivid. In various referendums or on the occasion of votes, almost 400,000 people declare that they are Silesians.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u47	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u48	Senator rapporteur, I did not really understand: has this amendment passed or not passed? [[Senator Jan Maria Jackowski:]] She's through. [[Only one senator abstained.]] I see. And the president's position was positive, right? Extensifying? Good. As far as decorations are concerned, it is a custom not to award decorations to current senators and Members. Of course, this is a custom that functions. I understand that this president can also change this habit. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But it's a medal, not a medal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u49	Mr Senator, Mr Marshal, it has been said many times that senators and Members receive different decorations. They get the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity, they get... [[Voice from the room: It's not typical.]] [[But it's in the bill.]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Let the senator explain.]] [[Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I think you can ask the Minister that question. He will explain why the President's Office includes this commemorative medal also of Members and Senators. I think a lot of us deserve this medal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u50	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u51	Senator rapporteur, have the committee's work on this project been consulted, directly or indirectly, by the organizations and associations of combatants? Because they were there. And did the author, the initiator of this bill, the President, present such opinions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u53	At the committee meeting, there was no question of what opinions were consulted, but we were quoted with the opinion of the Heraldic Commission, which supported the appearance of this medal. I think the Minister will answer the question of which associations or social groups the issue of this medal has been consulted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u54	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you a question about the article. 2. This article says that the medal is given to the living. This means that this law excludes a huge number of people who deserved for Poland's independence their outstanding activities and whose families live, as well as whose various social environments perfectly remember from their activities, but because of the fact that these people e.g. They're gone a month ago, they can't be honored. The question is, why is there such a construction that we cannot honour in connection with the century of regaining independence of people who make a huge contribution to it through their activities that have done this work to regain this independence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u57	Mr. Senator, these very well-deserved people are marked by crosses and awards, the honors of the President, those who are already gone. And here the model was adopted, that this medal is only for the living. As I say, in the case of deserved people who are dead, you can seek to give them the Bachelor's Cross or the Merit Cross, etc. [[Is there anything else I can ask you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u59	Several dozen senators have requested the President to give the Order of the White Eagle to Professor Włodzimierz Fiyałkowski, as well as a large group of Members from various terms of office. And the answer from the President's Office is that, basically, people who have died don't receive these kinds of decorations. So the answer is the same. I'm afraid... I see a very serious problem here, and I ask the High House, as well as the Minister, to consider that people who were extremely involved in activities for the independence of Poland, in various activities, could be scientific, artistic and social activities... The point is that these people can also be honored, especially this year, and that the accent is very clearly placed on this. At the moment, the answer is generally to them, also with regard to the awards currently awarded by the President's Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u60	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Half the question was taken from me, but very rightly, Senator Szymanski. I would like to support him; I think we should simply make such an amendment here. But my question goes even further. Namely, the granting party, as I understand it, is to be the President, the President of the Council of Ministers, ministers, managers of central offices and voivodships. Why is the possibility of acting as a bottom-up, self-government and social factor excluded here, the possibility of making proposals from this side and submitting proposals for the award of different people, both living and dead? If this was raised, what was the motivation for this exclusion? Because, no doubt, from a regional perspective, this social factor seems extremely important to me. Central offices... [[Voice from the room: It's in the bill...]] ...doubtless they have knowledge of who it's worth admitting such a medal, but it doesn't have to be complete knowledge. Furthermore, the possibility of such requests would mean that such a citizen factor would also be involved in the celebration of regaining independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u63	Mr. Senator, the president has his own initiative. And everyone can send a letter to him, stating that he wants this medal to be awarded to this and not to another Pole. There are no restrictions here. Associations, social groups, everyone can write to the President or send this letter to the voivodeship, to the Minister, to the Prime Minister. And then it takes the proper official course. Our Amendment That is, not ours, but Senator Kobiak's amendment aimed at giving 10 Members or 5 Senators a share in the award of this medal. So that's what's left of it... This amendment was not supported.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u64	You're asking Senator Bonkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u65	I have a question for you. I would like to say that, as in most cases, I do not agree with the total opposition, so in this case I share this doubt, because I know one situation where a certain organization has asked the President to give a medal. I read this answer: a medal cannot be given to a person who is an active parliamentarian; please return again when that person is not a parliamentarian. How could this be solved? Because here my colleagues say that the medals of solidarity... the medal of solidarity is not the medal given by the President. [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] This is a completely different matter. As far as I know, some of the total opposition receives state medals, but mostly German decorations receive. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And Poles can't get them. [[And I didn't get it.]] Will there simply be a revision of this regulation? Will this ban on the award of medals and decorations to current, active parliamentarians be excluded? Because it's discriminatory.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u67	No, the bill clearly says that the decorations... well, indirectly, that the decorations are given to the president, and they don't belong to the Members and Senators. However, this is a commemorative medal for all Polish citizens who have made some special contribution to strengthening independence. [[They're all...]] I don't see any contradictions here. We're using the President's office, who has officials, and the relevant provisions in the Awards and Awards Act, to perform this huge process of execution and just handing over this medal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u68	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, maybe I can help. The Law on Awards and Awards clearly states in the article. 3, that only the Order of the White Eagle, the Order of the Rebirth of Poland and the Cross of Merit apply this prohibition. This even concerns the submission of proposals for Members and Senators. [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] Other awards and decorations are not covered by such a prohibition, and therefore the use of this auxiliary law will in no way negate the possibility for a Member or Senator to receive such a distinction. But I have another question for the rapporteur. Namely, why is this provision about the award of a medal not announced in the Polish Monitor? It would be a trace in history that something like this just happened, just like other decorations. Will there be so many of them, or will there be such inflation of these distinctions that this will not be announced? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] What's the reason for this? Why isn't it announced?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u70	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u71	That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. I think it's a question to the Minister, to the law firm that prepared this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u72	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 is clearly written that the medal is given by the President of the Republic of Poland on his own initiative or... And that's where the other entities are listed. I do not recall that in the last eight years one Member or Senator in Poland has received a medal or any award given by the President. But my question is different. Mr. Senator, because I'm already beginning to have doubts. If there is a situation that Members can receive this, then who will be able to present these Medals of the Centuries of Recovered Independence? Is there a law here, or isn't it? Then who's gonna be able to hand out these medals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u75	According to the provisions of the Orders and Awards Act, they will be handed over by the President or those on whom he will cede this act of handing over medals. [[Question...]] I would also like to stress that this medal will be given temporarily, only during these years celebrations of the century of independence of the Republic, which I would like to extend until 2022, and the end. So it's just a souvenir medal, a temporary medal. That's why it's a little different in character and doesn't exactly match all the rules that are in the President's Awards and Awards Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u76	Now you're asking Senator Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u77	Well, I regret to say that I have different decorations, for example. French... [[You'll get the marshal's medal. It's not worth it...]] ...but I don't have a German. Senator rapporteur, will the award of this medal involve an IPN check?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u78	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u79	I think this is a procedure that is carried out when giving every award.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u80	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u81	I'll ask you two questions, if you'll excuse me. Undoubtedly, the Church has a share in regaining independence, directly, indirectly and in another sphere, and they have churches, and they also have church organizations. I know that the issue of awarding these awards, of making proposals is quite difficult, because there is a separation between the Church and the government, and here it is the law of the state administration alone. So the question is: how will this work? I, in my work related to the Solidarity, when I intend to submit an application concerning a priest or people directly related to the Church, nuns, nuns, always carry out an inquiry to the authorities of the Church. How will this be solved? Father Shelly's character opens this list. The second point concerns the recital. Well, here is such a critical assessment, and therefore a distinction, and it is indicated who can get this medal, so those fighters who have strengthened, directly or indirectly, who have built identity, but there is also a statement of the material well-being of the Republic of Poland. I apologize for the question, Mr. Senator Ryszka, but you are well-trained in these matters. You did well to give this medal to Marshal Borusewicz, but I have a question: does Mr Balcerowicz, in your opinion, deserve such a distinction or not? Would you file a motion? [[Senator, you're gonna put the senator...]] [[After all, Mr. President has awarded...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u82	Senator, please, at your discretion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u83	Thank you for that question. Senator, when it comes to matters of the Church, I will answer on the basis of my experience. There's a parish priest in my district who's been organizing catholic celebrations for 29 years or even longer. There are some beautiful plates on the walls of the church, some reliefs associated with the Katyn crime. I spoke to the president as a senator and asked the president to honor this priest with a cross and he received the Bachelor's Cross. So that there is no problem for the Church to participate in this, so that the priest will receive this medal. It's just a matter of justification: who's for it. Polish citizens, I think priests are Polish citizens, I think you will agree... [[Voice from the room: Not all of them.]] As for the second question, about the material well-being of the Republic of Poland, I think this is about people who have some merit for the Polish economy. If anyone proves that Mr Balcerowicz has served Poland economically, then 100% He's gonna get a medal, I think, but it's got to be proved. [[But we have to prove it.]] To justify, to apologize, to justify, not to prove. I wouldn't do that. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u84	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question. [[Here's the punishment you need...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u85	I was holding this committee meeting, Senator, as you know, and you answered a lot of questions there. All I ask is that you explain, because we discussed this at the committee meeting, that there is this point that states that the representatives of the most important government institutions, ministers, also voivodships, etc. are asking for this. And then, as you know, the question is, isn't it gonna be closing off opportunities for other organizations and associations? Was it then answered that this is in accordance with the Medals Award Act and that everyone can perform and that the voivode is only an intermediary in the transfer? That's the only question you can answer. That's the only question you can answer. This will dispel some doubts. Because there were arguments. I guess I'm speaking as rapporteur now. That this medal can become a medal that will serve only one option and will be given so-called. Yours. Such questions were also raised at the committee meeting, Senator. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u86	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u87	You have already answered that question, Mr President. Voivodeships, prime ministers, ministers and managers of central offices are like intermediaries, i.e. those to whom we apply. They'll review him and send him on.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u88	You're asking Senator Mammets a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u89	My question was actually asked by Senator Czerwiński, but I would like to refer to Senator Flork's statement. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: This is a discussion.]] Mr Senator, I know a dozen current Members and Senators who have received the President's award, the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. This cross is given to the president at the request of the Institute of National Remembrance. That's what it looks like. It cannot be said that no Member has been given.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u90	I have to correct this, Mr. Marshal. That's what the record says. Of course, as far as medals are concerned, they can be given to Members and Senators. This is a statutory record. [[You can explain it, but it's like throwing peas against a wall.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u91	Is there anything the senator would like to make up for? [[No.]] You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u92	In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 2 (1) is said to be a medal for Polish citizens. What about citizens who have double, triple citizenship? Will they be eliminated or not? What's the story? Has this issue been discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u94	We didn't discuss this at the committee meeting, but someone with a few citizenships... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I did not ask such a question.]] You asked about Polonia. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: No. I asked why there is only Polish citizenship here.]] [[Senator, I'd like to see you in regular mode.]] I'm answering. Someone who has several citizenships, including Polish, is definitely a Polish citizen. Otherwise, we would have to exclude Senator Anders from the group of Polish citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u95	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Senator Elephant and Senator Florek. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, do you have any idea what he looks like and what the Medal of the Centennial of Independence Reclaim is awarded for? I'm asking because I read on one of the web sites that two days ago, the President gave Marcin Gortatov such a medal. The one you're talking about is the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence, and that Medal of the Centennial of Reclaiming Independence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Perhaps that's a question for the President's Chancellery's representative, but there seems to be something going on here. [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, allow me to ask you a question.]] This threatens with a certain inflation of medals with a very similar name, the more that the medal is being given. It was written about on one of the Internet portals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u97	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u98	Mr. Senator, I don't know anything about this. I don't know there's a medal being handed out. This medal is new and only after the law has been passed by the Sejm It still has to come back with an amendment to the Sejm. It will be granted. [[I will repeat this question to the Minister.]] That's a good question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u99	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u100	Mr Senator, the medal is awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland either on his own initiative or at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Central Offices and Voivodeships. As this, I would say, the lowest level is asking the president to give. You said the voivode was just a middleman. I would like you to confirm unambiguously that if any organization, anyone, goes to the voivodeship, the voivode will accept the documents and hand them over to the president. In my opinion, that's not true, because the voivode has to check the documents, write her own opinion, and either she's gonna step forward, or she's not gonna apply for a medal. So he's not a middleman, and it's not gonna be that every application submitted to the voivodeship will be handled positively. I just want you to confirm to me if you're a middleman or not a middleman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u101	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u102	That's exactly what it is. I agree with what you said. This mediation of the voivodship is so to say, quite important, because it can refer the request further, but it does not have to, because the voivodship e.g. should check the IPN of each citizen for whom this medal is requested. So it's mediation, but it's related to the provisions of the Awards and Orders Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u103	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] This bill was introduced by the President. Minister Andrzej Dera and Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Wojciech Kolarski were authorised to present the position of President during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a special year and this award is also to be unique. This award is intended to be a unique commemoration of the celebration of the century of regaining independence, and at the same time this award shows the state continuity between the 2nd Polish Commonwealth, a state reborn after 123 years, and a free Poland today, in 2018. Hence the President's initiative to refer to a medal established by the Council of Ministers regulation in 1928 on the occasion of the decade of regaining independence. The Act under investigation today is closely linked to the 2 legal acts, the 1992 Orders and Awards Act and the 2017 National Centuries of Recovering Independence Act. I am talking about this because this knowledge is used to explain the many doubts that have arisen here. On this basis, I think we can get an answer to the questions that you senators have asked. At the same time, I mention this because the Senator rapporteur, when he referred to the session of the Senate Committee, informed about the proposed and adopted amendment to the bill. I have expressed a positive view on this amendment, and on behalf of the applicant I have expressed my appreciation for this amendment. And I would like to explain now that nothing about intent is changing. The President wishes, stressing the importance of 1922 for the history of Poland, the moment when Silesia returned to its mother, also for 2022, to extend the possibility of giving a commemorative medal on the occasion of the century of regaining independence. Nevertheless, because this law must be, I would say, compatible with the National Reclaiming Act, which sets out the framework for the 2017/2021 celebrations, I would like to ask the senators to adopt this law without amendment and at the same time declare that a request will be made at the next meeting of the Sejm to amend these 2 laws. We will thus avoid a formal problem which would involve the adoption of the amendment today. So I would like to thank you for this amendment, to stress that the President's initiative is going to be the year for the award of these awards in 2022, and at the same time to ask for the bill to be adopted without this amendment, so that it can continue to process and work on the award. Let me ask you a few questions. I'll start with the last one, Mr... The senator asked if the medal given to an excellent basketball player was a medal we're discussing today. I'm calming down. No. It was a human error, misconstrued information. It was a commemorative medal that was given to Mr. Marcin Gortat. This medal refers to the century of regaining independence, but of course it is not a distinction. I kindly ask the High Senate to adopt the bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u105	Are you finished with the minister? Yes. At present, the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, please, because there are questions. Senators may report from a place of no more than one minute of question to the President's representative related to this item on the agenda. You were the first to sign up for Senator Rulewski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u106	The Minister has already heard the first question concerning the process of opinion of this law. This is particularly about the participation of independent and veteran organisations. The second question was what Senator Ryszka was doing nicely... Yeah, but he's an altar boy at church. Well, there is no place in this law, but above all in the Law on Donations, on the Church's conclusions, which is understandable, because the Church retains enormous autonomy in matters of contact with power, and rightly so, it follows from the principle of separation... So the question is: where will such regulation be found when there is a need to honor church representatives for their struggle to regain independence? And the third thing, I've already said it... Don't you think... Although it is placed, Minister, in the preamble, it is extensive, but... It's about this material prosperity of the Republic of Poland. To tell you the truth, everyone who worked in Poland and before the war and after the war strengthened this material... Even the unemployed... It happened that they had to go to unemployment to build this prosperity. Don't you think it's too broad a formula? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u107	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u108	Mr. Senator, the bill was prepared by an experienced team who has been preparing legal acts at the President's Office for 20 years. This project has not been consulted with specific independence or combatant organisations that you mentioned. The second question was, if I understood correctly... [[Church, possibilities...]] No, no. The medal is given to people, not institutions, and therefore the problem you are signalling does not exist. [[Can the Church bring...]] [[The voice from the room: No, it can't.]] I'll say it again. This law is in a systemic sense consistent with the Orders and Awards Act. This problem that you are signalling, Senator, does not occur in the case of State decorations. [[The church can bring in, just like anybody.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u109	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question, but please don't take the floor before... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we talked about this at the committee meeting, and I asked that question. But right now, in the courtroom, I'd like to ask you to try to determine the number of people who might be rewarded with this medal. Because when I look around our room, I think everyone's actually... Was there any evaluation at all in the preparation of this project How many, more or less, will there be a year for these three years of commemorative medals? I'm asking because I'm sure that's the kind of information that citizens are gonna be asking for. Do you have any price calculations in this situation? And who's gonna pay for these medals?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u112	Mr. Senator, the medal is a commemorative decoration. The circle of persons to whom such a designation may be awarded has been defined very widely. This is due to the belief that independence, our independence today, is not so much the result of individual actions, but that thousands, hundreds of thousands of Poles had an impact on the fight against independence, on the free state building. And I think it would have been a bit out of line if the applicant had, i.e. those preparing such a project estimated how many such outstanding people are and how many positive proposals should be adopted. Well, no, that's not an estimate. But we're definitely talking about a very large number of people here. Which should not be regarded as a reprimand. [[I don't...]] I think that if you look at it from this point of view, i.e. that we are talking about a decoration, which is part of the celebrations co-created by Poles, it will be visible that also the scope, the number of people who will be honored with this award, is very important in the community or in the state of creation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u113	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to return to my question about granting this medal to people who are also dead. 'Cause now, for example. Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, the creator of Gdynia, but not only, an outstanding person, when it comes to Poland's independence, could not obtain such a medal. And I'm sure the Gdynia community would apply for such a medal to your voivodeship. Why can't such people get it according to the law? And are you open to such an amendment? Which one do I put to remove from the record the word "living"? This would also open the possibility of awarding this medal to people such as Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, and this would be of great importance to Gdynia, and not only to Gdynia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u116	Mr. Senator, the answer has two aspects. First, formal: this is a commemorative decoration, and commemorative decorations are awarded to the living. Case two: State decorations are awarded to deceased persons, but it is not appropriate to treat a situation where a deceased does not receive such a distinction as an expression of a despot. There is another way to highlight the merits of independence of those to whom we owe our freedom today, and who have not lived to see freedom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u117	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u118	Yes, Minister, you rightly state here that this medal is a commemorative one. If so, then the question is: how long will it be broadcast? That's not part of the bill. Well, it's customary that the president or... [[Voice from the room: It is defined...]] [[Voice from the room: There was a speech...]] [[Until 2021]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, questions... He answers the Minister's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u120	Mr. Senator, I'll answer right away. There is a clear deadline: 2021. This will be from 2018, i.e. from the time of adoption, until 2021. And I'm going back to that... [[No, no, no, but I don't mean what years...]] No, no. I am talking about... The medal as a commemorative award is supposed to be a form of celebration of the centenary of regaining independence, which has been defined by the Act on National Celebrations for the years 2017 and 2021. I mentioned here the President's initiative, so that the year 2022 was also the year of the centenary of regaining independence due to the century of joining... the return of Upper Silesia to its mother. This will be the time frame for the Medal of the Recovered Independence Centennial.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u121	You ask the marshal... [[Excuse me...]] Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u122	Mr. Marshal, this is where I've been yelled at, my friends and my colleagues... Indeed, Minister, as far as the years are concerned, we accept, with the amendment, that this will be the years 2018 and 2022. The question is: how long will the broadcast take? Because it can continue in an unlimited way or may be limited in such a way that it can only be granted during the ceremony. But that record isn't in the bill. [[And it won't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u123	Mr. Senator, this case is precisely stated that it is a matter of merit for service in the free Republic and in the years 2018 and 2021... So during these 3 years this award will be awarded for the merit given to free Poland in previous years or present years. [[You ask the marshal...]] The medal will be awarded in the years 2018 to 20201, as it is now enshrined in the Act, and as the Sejm and the Senate amends the bill in accordance with the President's intention, 2022 will be included in this period and will be the year in which it will also be possible to... [[I'm sorry. Right on your side.]] ...to give these decorations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u124	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u125	They won't be able to receive this medal if they're dead, I understand. Yes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of Poland Wojciech Kolarski: Yes.]] This, Minister, I believe that this is the right way to go, that we must turn back from the path that the previous President Kaczyński entered when he gave the Order of the White Eagle to Fr. The bronze, of course, to the civil insurgent of the January Uprising. But you have to stop somewhere. If you can give the award to a dead hero from the January Uprising, why not give it to a hero from the November Uprising, why not give the Order of the White Eagle to Mieszko I and the first bishop in Poland? [[Wojciech.]] The first one wasn't Wojciech... [[Voice from the room: Jordan.]] [[Jordan.]] Jordan. [[The first one was from Poznan.]] So what I'm trying to say is that it's a good thing... You have to go back to the past, but you have to stop somewhere. [[And the question, Mr. Marshal?]] I already asked you a question. I asked if this bill didn't actually provide for the award of awards... [[You've already told the Minister.]] ...a person who's dead. I heard the answer: yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u126	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, I assure you the record is precise. The commemorative award will only be given to the living.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u127	Are there any more questions from the senators? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u128	Minister, in matters not governed by the law, the provisions of the Orders and Awards Act of 16 October 1992 apply. And how it is regulated That's what we were just talking about. Whether a postmortem mark can be awarded or not, it is regulated by laws. And there's no doubt about that. My question concerns this issue. There are doubts about this. 'Cause there's no clear record in this bill. To whom can this medal be awarded. I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister whether Members and Senators of the Republic of Poland will be able to receive these medals in the light of this law. Until now, these national medals have not been awarded to Members and Senators, they may have been awarded exceptionally, where this was recorded in the Act. The question is whether this is such a special law, under which Members and Senators will also be marked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u129	Please. [[In light of this bill...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u130	Senator, as I said, this is a special time, a special award. I would like to make it clear that the senators and Members will be able to receive the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u131	I don't see any further requests for questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of Poland Wojciech Kolarski: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to sign up for Senator Jackowski. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] He's here. You're welcome. I'm giving the floor. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please keep your conversations quiet. Senator Jackowski has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to say that I welcome the President's initiative to establish such a commemorative award. It is absolutely right, and it refers to what was already mentioned in the report of the rapporteur and in the statements of the Minister, to a medal or a medal from 1928. It was a Medal of the Ten Years of Recovered Independence, established to commemorate people who in a special way contributed to the creation of an independent Polish state. If one of you could even reach the Internet and read a list of people who were awarded the Medal of the Ten Years of Recovered Independence, this medal established in 1928... In a sense, we can say that it was a social, political, cultural, religious elite of the then Republic of Poland, because they received this medal of people who directly participated in the fights or in the construction of an independent Polish state. On the occasion of this medal we are dealing with a period of the century, so for reasons, let's call it biological, there is no way to respect the people who forged our independence in 1918 and 1922. However, it is a commemorative medal with a character of distinction. It is worth noting that the President, as an applicant for this bill, adopted the principle applicable to other State awards, that there is a circle of applicants who may apply to the President for this distinction. And in this circle of people there are voivodeships, central government managers, ministers of individual ministries, but the President himself can also, on his own initiative, award this award. And any concern, consideration, the whole thread of our discussion, whether it would be selective for reasons, let's call it a political choice of the circle of people who will be awarded this medal, in my deep conviction are unjustified for a very simple reason. After all, various social organisations, associations, foundations, councillors will be able to ask the President to honor people who, for example, are responsible for this. at regional or local level, they played an outstanding role in the construction of the Polish state, especially in recent years. Thus, this award is justified in substance and related to the celebration of the century of regaining independence. I understand the Minister's concerns here, and I regret that this issue has not been immediately taken into account in the legislative work. This cesuria of the year 1922... At the moment, for reasons of constitutional, legal reasons, it is not possible to adopt the amendment that we tabled at the committee meeting, extending the duration of this award until 2022. Well, with regret... I mean. We acknowledge that, but we expect a quick revision of the bill. Perhaps some of the elements that emerged during this Senate debate will also be included in the amendment. And my appeal to Minister Kolarski to... Well, I know perfectly well that the firm has a great deal of experience here, and I'm talking about the President's Office. But the idea is to give some kind of set-up or a special, scenarioal award of this medal, as the President will hand it over or on behalf of the President, an eligible circle of people, i.e. ministers or voivodships, in order to create the right formula and define, as in the regulation, how such a celebration should take place. Respect for this has an extremely important civic value, a teaching value, let's call it that. And I say this as the person who, as President of the City Council of Warsaw In 2004, she gave hundreds of awards to the insurgents, who were still very much alive. It was a badge of the Warsaw Uprising, which was given by the Council of the capital city. And although this was a typical commemorative distinction in the hierarchy of decorations and awards, it was especially appreciated by Warsaw insurgents. And really meeting these people was very touching. It was 14 years ago, on the 60th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. Like I said, the circle of people was huge, big, but so... Here, I'd encourage you. I know that the firm has a lot of experience in this area, and it has a whole department that takes care of these issues. It is in the course of further work on the implementation of this law that this element is taken into account. This can be a very important event in the local environment, whether on a national or regional scale. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, however, the medal is a part of history, because it concerns the reality that settled in 1918 and 1922, although it left its important traces earlier and later. That's not what I want to talk about. I would like to talk about the fact that, as the Minister said, Mr President's initiative is special and unique. This particularity and uniqueness emphasizes this I was wrong. What is written in the bill, namely that the medal will be awarded only within 4 years. In fact, it should be a little longer, because if someone makes an application at the end of 2022, then of course the confession and handover will take place a little later, but it is not about the pharmacy we are talking about here. We are talking here about a serious issue that... the President's vision includes, and especially the workers. I would like to stress that the issue of independence has taken place among many Poles with different views, different visions of the way to independence. In the meantime, the appointment of the President... and the establishment of a path of granting and requesting only on the basis of the official administration, because even the President is an official. It is a restriction of this initiative, to the detriment of the President himself. After all, there is no denying that the carriers of this independence and this memory are primarily independent and veteran organizations. However, only the official way is included in this initiative: it is the voivode, it is the ministers who can present proposals. The medal may also be given at the initiative of the President. I believe that, while the role of the President, the Supreme Officer, is not disputed because he represents the majesty of the Republic of Poland, the dedication of the initiative to apply only to officials, i.e. voivodeships, ministers, is, however, a limitation of this initiative. That is why my amendment, not only my own, but also other colleagues, is aimed at granting this right also to combative and independence organisations under the particular circumstances mentioned by Minister Kolarski. The argument is actually the statement of the Minister who said that these organisations were not consulted on the matter. This is the first case. The second is a matter that cannot be written down in the bill, but it is the reality of everyday life. Around historical politics, so the achievements of those people who will be candidates for this award, for this commemorative medal... These are not only soldiers, not only recognized representatives of environments that had their share of direct and measurable, but also, as I said in the questions asked, these are people who build a cultural identity, and this is a little vague. They are also to be those who built the material prosperity of the Republic of Poland. There is already a discussion here, and to this day there is a discussion, and it is not a polemic one, it is a court or even a nudge, when it is said that someone has ruined a wonderful Polish one. Read: communist economy, and there are those who say that the Polish People's Republic rebuilt Poland from destruction, that is, building the prosperity of the Republic. And in order to avoid this, to give this initiative a citizen's character, but also to what Senator Jackowski said in front of me. In order to give a solemn character, to show that it is not a badge from power, but it is a badge from society, because it is the one who has requested it, and the President has accepted it, it is advisable that this law be extended to include the possibility to apply, not to report... Because what else is reporting, and what else is inferencing, is an official act, reporting is merely an initiative. In the context of the proposal, it is necessary to submit to the proposed regime, and in the case of the initiative, this is not defined and therefore, of course, the proposal is of a higher rank. You can tell me the minister told me it was the good officials who prepared it. That there is some convergence with the law that speaks about the current path of applying or submitting candidates. But there is a precedent that includes Members and Senators in the Law on the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. It is not reported to the voivodeship, but it is applied to the competent institution, i.e. the IPN, and the IPN concludes. So it is right to assume that the most competent in such matters is the IPN, that the IPN proposes to the President, and therefore the IPN has the right to apply for Members and Senators. So, Minister, while listening to your appeal, I am prepared to resign from this amendment on condition that your statement is presented that the conclusions of the Veteran and Independence Organizations will be dealt with by the direkt, as the Germans say. But we don't get paid for it. Directly, without this unnecessary bureaucratic myth, without the participation of voivodships, ministers, sometimes good, sometimes bad... In this way we will create an open, friendly climate around these celebrations. I thank the High House for listening, and I am making an amendment to the marshal's hand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Anthony Szymanski, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to one point which I raised in my questions both to the rapporteur and to the Minister, i.e. the possibility of giving this honorary award also to people who died and who have done very important deeds for Poland's independence. I would like to say at first that it is very important to thank people for their good deeds. The older I get, the more I realize that thank you. Especially should we thank those who are the creators of Polish independence. Therefore, this limitation only to people living is a restriction that does not convince me, because it means that people such as Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, professor Włodzimierz Fiyałkowski, Irena Sendlerów, Danuta Siedzikówna and hundreds of others cannot be honoured in this way. This is about bowing down to these people, their families, their backgrounds, but also about showing the living, this young generation that such people were, what they were doing, showing their history, showing that you can live not only for yourself and your loved ones, but also for the community. Therefore, the form of honoring by granting this medal to those I have mentioned and hundreds of others... the creation of such a possibility seems very important to me. I will give an example of what happened in Gdansk last year, but there will be a continuation. The social school environment has created an initiative called "Immunity Creators." It was an initiative which then ended with a great concert, a great event in which these creators of independence were mentioned. I asked this young generation It's the young people who did it. Why these independence creators chose only those who died. The answer was this: because they deserved their entire adult life to be shown during this unique event that was organized. We don't know how a young person will behave, who has done something very good in one act or another, but then, with her continued life, has embezzled this beautiful path... It could be different. For them, for this young generation, convincing was this... As creators of independence they chose, they offered people who did good things throughout their adult lives. Among these people were among others. already mentioned before me Danuta Sidzikówna, Włodzimierz Fijałkowski, Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski. This should also be taken into account, this intuition of the young generation, which shows that people must be honored for their whole lives, not just for a passage in which... Then some inconsistencies can occur. So that I make an amendment that deletes one word I'm a living man. This will also take into account those who died and who were of great importance for Poland's independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u137	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm short. By joining the ones that have been made here, I would like to make one amendment. I would like to make this amendment so that there is no problem among Members and Senators so that the President does not have a dilemma when it comes to giving these medals to Members and Senators. We know what this situation might be like. Until now, it has been so customary that such medals have not been admitted to parliamentarians. I ask you, because the elections, next year's parliamentary elections, will be next in 2022. The Minister said that there would be an amendment tabled by the Sejm to extend this period until the end of 2022. So not only will this term, but also the next term end before 31 December 2020. Therefore, anyone who is a Member today will be able to receive this Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence if he is not a Member or Senator for the next two terms. I therefore propose an amendment to add an article. 2a is replaced by the following: "Medal is not suitable for Members and Senators." There's a list of who it's suitable for. It doesn't fit. I did not state here that after the end of the term of office you can, because it is obvious. It's just not suitable for Members and Senators. So if someone doesn't get elected a Member or a Senator next year, then of course they can get a medal like this. If he is not elected in the next term of office, he will also be able to receive it. So I don't want to point out here that you can apply to the president, but the motion will lie there until I stop being a Member or a Senator and I can receive this medal. But it is clear, in a summary version, that the medal is not suitable for Members and Senators. And that's the appropriate request I'm making. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but there's a little mistake here... Oh, here we go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u139	Thank you, Senator. Please, Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! No amendments will be tabled, and the ones that fell from both sides, after translating the Minister, I find it pointless. [[What do you mean?]] That's what I think. That's how I'm gonna vote. And you can do what you think, we have freedom. Among the many laws that we are investigating in the Senate, in the Seym... they are known to be accompanied by various emotions, for political, substantive reasons. But today I treat this bill as a sacred act as a joy for Members and Senators. Probably every one of us in some kind of moving moment in our lives, something in our ears sounds, or a verse from a poem, or a song. And my ears have been ringing in my ears since morning, and it's already very exciting: we're lucky. We are lucky to have lived in the country above the Vistula River at this moment. We're lucky. Our country is happy, beautiful, real. People who are open, innocent in their hearts. Our country is happy. So it turned out that the President is the President elected by a certain political option of the country. In democratic elections. [[By the nation.]] But we are all fortunate, and Members and Senators of the opposition, that we are holding the mandate which we have been given in democratic elections at such a beautiful time as the celebration of the century of independence of Poland, and that we, on a suggestion, can share this joy with society. And there's nothing here to find any nuances. Any one of us who gets proposed for this medal can get this medal. I already see in my community people who have such a medal, even though... I am a politician, so active, since 1997 and these people, already wrinkled today, will always be for me... Always in my eyes will be those people who do nothing else at every patriotic ceremony at every Holy Mass, but come with a white and red flag. Of course, they are also flawless in their work. They're good people. I already have a list of people in my head that I'm going to report to that medal. Minister, thank the President for this medal. Our country is happy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Jan Żaryn, Senators Jan Rulewski and Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Antoni Szymański and Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Wojciech Kolarski: No.]] Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue. The text of the Act is contained in print No 864, and the report of the Commission In print No 864 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Dear guests! High Senate! I present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue adopted by the Sejm on 15 June 2018. Mr. Marshal of the Senate sent the bill to the committee on 9 June 2018 which, after considering it on 3 July, asks that the attached draft resolution be adopted. It is rare, High Senate, to present such a non-controversial amendment to the bill. These are regulations that have been developed through dialogue and agreement. As stressed by the President's Office, the basis for this project was proposed and proposed by representatives of the parties on the Social Dialogue Council, but only those accepted by all parties were accepted. When the Social Dialogue Council was established on the basis of the July Act in September 2015, it replaced the Tripartite Committee on Social and Economic Affairs after 14 years of operation. The trade union environments, the employers' environment, had very high hopes for this law. As the parties on the council stress, these hopes are still on the board. It is possible to implement all plans that individual representatives of the parties bring to the board. The Act states that after 24 months the parties will present to the President of the Republic of Poland proposals for changes which will serve to improve the functioning of the Council, changes which will contribute to strengthening the position of the Council. Such proposals were presented to the President at the end of 2017. Today we will be debating these very proposals that you have presented to the President, namely the proposals agreed by the representatives of the Council of Social Dialogue. The most important changes introduced by the Act include: giving the Council and the workers' and employers' side the power to comment on the multiannual financial plan of the State, draft strategies, draft programmes and drafts of other government documents relating to the planned activities of the Council of Ministers, prepared by the Council of Ministers and its members; granting the Council the competence to make a request to the Sejm and the Senate to provide information on matters of significant importance to the Sejm or the Senate; granting the staff and the employer's party the power to apply to the Minister responsible for public finance with a request for a general interpretation in the case of non-uniform application of the provisions of tax law; extending the circle of persons who may take part in plenary meetings of the Council with an advisory vote on the Chief Labour Inspector; broadening the circle of persons who may take part in the vote on representatives of the Minister responsible for Dialogue and the Minister responsible for Public Finance; allowing the staff and the employer's party to take decisions by means of communication; requiring the chairman of the social service to present the Council and the Senate to express their views in particular in the proper capacity of the office. I would like to draw particular attention to this last element of the High Senate, because this increase in planned funds for the functioning of the voivodship social dialogue councils is significant, because more than four times. For example, according to previous records in 2019, less than 790 thousand PLN was foreseen for these 16 voivodship councils of social dialogue. This amendment gives the possibility to allocate PLN 3 million 273 thousand to the operation of these 16 councils, and therefore this is a significant increase. He will improve the quality of functioning and functioning of voivodship social dialogue councils. High Senate, the law does not raise any legislative objections. It was adopted by the Sejm at its sixty-fourth meeting on 15 June this year. During the committee's deliberations, there was not much discussion on this subject. Perhaps because the changes are not controversial. There was only a request, made by me, that representatives of the President's Office, as well as representatives of the Council of Dialogue, consider granting to the voivodship councils social dialogue powers so that they could also evaluate documents of a strategic and financial nature at the level of the voivodships, since they are to be co-hosts of the voivodship. It was also a matter of having the president, who at the moment do these functions, report to the sejm of the voivodship. This would be a similar solution to what is set out in the Act and concerns the fact that the chairman of the Social Dialogue Council reports such reports to the Sejm and the Senate. This comment was welcomed by a representative of the President's Office. I hope it will be taken into account in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u144	Mr Senator, I could not be at the committee meeting, and I am curious which of the changes advocated by the trade unions and employers were not included in this submission.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u145	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u146	There has been no communication of the requests of the representatives of those bodies mentioned by the senator. There was information that the environment had presented proposals for change, but this submission contained only those with broad consensus, all parties on the Council of Dialogue. The suggestions of the various parties were certainly presented to the President, but they, as I said, were not presented during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u147	Senator Piotr Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm talking about the art. 50. In this article it is written as if a correspondence vote, which has not yet been written. I have a question: did you talk about why... Was there a problem with the meetings of the voivodship social dialogue councils, and therefore it was necessary to introduce this correspondence vote? Was there any justification for this correspondence vote at the committee meeting? Thank you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u149	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u150	Dear Senator, this aspect of the amendment of the bill was not discussed at the committee meeting. As the senator suggested in the question, it is probably a matter of improving the functioning of voivodship councils in order, for example, to exploit the opportunities offered by addressing certain issues in correspondence or even circulation. It's accepted. Furthermore, it must be borne in mind that this proposal certainly appeared as a result of the votes coming to the Council of Social Dialogue from the Voivodeship Councils of Social Dialogue, which have been followed by at least a few dozen meetings. On the basis of these meetings, such conclusions have been drawn and they have found their place in the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u151	Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] This bill was introduced by the President. Minister Wojciech Kolarski, Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, who is with us today, and from the government side Minister Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Do the President's representative and the Government's representative wish to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present their position? Minister? What about you, Minister? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to representatives of the President and the Government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Augustine.]] Senator Augustine, right? Minister Kolarski?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u152	I would like to ask the representative of the applicants, the representative of the President, about these demands of employers and trade unions, which are not included in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u153	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Senator, the principle that all changes will require consensus has been accepted during the work on the amendment. Therefore, all the cases that were brought forward during the work were more of an opinion than those of the various parties, and all the parties agreed on the proposals submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u155	Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry, but...]] Yes, please. Minister, stay. [[Mrs. Marshal, could I ask the Minister to answer in writing so that I can learn about these demands that have not been taken into account?]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of Poland Wojciech Kolarski: Good.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Good. Thank you. Stay here, because there's still a question, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u156	Minister, while working on this law, which you are expanding, which is supported by many, as you said, all sides of the dialogue have agreed to it. Probably one side didn't agree, that side wasn't there. And that's what my question is about. In Poland, the economic situation, including workers' or agricultural families, is also determined by the economic sector, agriculture. In this Council, there is neither a representative in the form of a self-government, and membership of an agricultural self-government is compulsory, nor even more a member of a trade union. There is a nationwide organization, the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers, and there are national organizations of agricultural circles and others, but there are no such organizations in the Council of Dialogue, so they cannot be heard. But the opposite is in social life, where they participate widely and eloquently, not only in premises, not only during negotiations and consultations. So have you considered inviting them to participate in social dialogue in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u157	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u158	Mr Senator, the Social Dialogue Council Act was adopted in 2015 because the current social dialogue formula has been exhausted. This institution has been defined, the framework for its functioning has been defined, and now we are discussing the conclusions of our previous work on the basis of this law. These proposals are contained in the law that we are currently debating. There's so much I can tell you about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u159	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the President's representative has committed himself to answering the questions in writing by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Does a government representative still wish to speak? Minister? No. Are there any questions for the Minister as a representative of the government? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Rulewski, please speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think it's any abuse that I'm taking part in a debate on the Social Dialogue Council, and actually taking part in its work by actors, including trade unions. An additional condition for the presentation is the fact that, during the implementation of reforms in Poland, among others, it was introduced. principles of social dialogue based on 3 members, i.e. employers, trade unions and government. In fact, this law is a consequence of the company pact, which still lives in all of us and fulfils the constitutional principles of social dialogue. As I have already mentioned, when I ask a question, there is an evolution due to changes in the economy and its structure, which were not there at the time when these institutions were formed. Therefore, legislative action, including that of the President, is right and justified in order to revive this dialogue. Well, I regret to say, however, that the pillars of this dialogue are not developing at the same pace as the initiators, i.e. the President or even the Government and Minister of Sweden, the trade unionist. The number of unionists is decreasing. The union, which was so important in the field of economic prosperity, in the area of food, i.e. the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers, unfortunately shows a certain I'll take that politely. "Quantitative regression'. But the fact that there is a quantitative regression can be an internal cause of the lack of dynamics and mobility of people, can also be a response to the problems that occur, problems of a professional nature, but in Poland there are still small farms based on the work of the farmer or his family. These are a lot of problems, which we often find out about. Well, almost every day we find out, even because of drought, and the target is government or local government. So it would seem that in these actions I am also urging myself that we could make a break in this dialogue, but we could invite representatives of the rural environments, especially those who live, as I said, from work, from our own employment. Because the others, I understand, are placed in a group of entrepreneurs, owners or employers. There is no obstacle, Mr. Ministers, to invite them to this board of dialogue on matters that all of Poland lives on. Well, family budgets include food expenditure of 28/32%, and the prices of this food and the structure of the economy have an impact... Especially since they are also recipients of the social security system derived from the taxes of all citizens. So I'd like to talk about the great absents. The first absent, of course, are individual farmers, only that the current conditions of the Trade Union Act close them to this, because in order to be able to participate in this as a representative relationship, they would have to meet at least 2 criteria. The first criterion is the universality of the organisation. This condition is fulfilled. Well, unless Mr. Senator, former chairman, well-deserved unionist, denies it. The second is that they have to be legit by a number of, if I remember correctly, 300,000 members. Well, that's a criterion they don't meet. Note what else is the number of 300 000 members in the industry that employs more than 5 or 6 million people ..the economy....the and a dozen million And that's another thing for those farms that we have more than 1 million 200 thousand. So this criterion, although equal, is unfair. Let us leave this to further consideration. The problem today is also the not representativeness in the Social Dialogue Council of another employer, clearly noticeable on a daily basis, i.e. local government. One could say: well, they should be a joint government representation or as employers they should be associated with the local employers' institutions. Only today there is no such institution, so there are no agreements with local government employees, because there is no representation of employers in local government. They act as a swamped part and each local government signs agreements, collective agreements in a given territorial unit. Once it is 60 employees, and once it is, as in Warsaw, almost 3,000 employees. In total, it is a deficiency in the principle of dialogue, because the government, which is today's main employer and, as I remember, employs 300 000 people, of course it is universal, trade unions work in it, there is no translation into dialogue, especially in the Council of Dialogue. In this Act I'm just getting to the bottom of this. - I suppose it's in the article. 5 or 3, the legislator rightly provides for the extension of the board of dialogue to include observers. It had already been a bank, a national bank, and in this case it would be the State Labour Inspection, an important supervisory authority and control of working conditions. They will have observer status, this is important, because their actions, the results of their actions determine the state of social dialogue, especially on issues that are still a nightmare of the economy. I'm talking about trash deals. If it is so that the self-government is an employer, it is a gesture of life for many working families, it is obvious that it should participate in this dialogue board. But since there is no need for employers to organise themselves in a specific employers' federation, my proposal is to supplement the observer catalogue with representatives of local government. Someone would say, what if they weren't there? But we have an institution of a joint government committee and a local government. Fortunately, local authorities have chosen their representation and participate in important public service matters. And my amendment is not only aimed at keeping representatives of local governments on the board of dialogue as observers. It makes it clear that they will be those chosen by the joint committee of government and government and whom the President will appoint to the Social Dialogue Council. I think that this dialogue will not only expand but also gain new values. Because it happens that we, even we... I'm not talking about governments that have different pro orientations anymore. - or anti-government, it may be that many powers or privileges or even the conditions of the functioning of local governments are lost. That is why their voice, the observer's voice, will certainly not harm the functioning of the dialogue, especially as regards the budget. It is in the budget that we define, for example, the conditions for the functioning of teachers. Let me remind you that the employer for teachers is now exclusively a local government. 600,000 people, associated in relationships, who with local governments... Even the working rules lay down the conditions for reform, restructuring, relocation, appointment of a director, manager, issues relating to the social fund, health care, implementation of the Teacher's Charter, such important issues, which do not, however, have a bearing on this dialogue. And if he's not there, then we have a lot of that, so to speak, wild dialogue in the form of various kinds of protests. And on the basis of this value of enlargement, I propose an amendment to extend the observer catalogue to representatives of local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u161	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law, which aims to improve the functioning of the institution itself, the Social Dialogue Council, should also encourage us to devote a few words to the issue of social dialogue in Poland. The Council should build and channel the infrastructure of this dialogue. It seems to me that it is difficult to find a place where dialogue is more necessary than in present Poland, when Poles are so divided on so many issues, on so many very specific issues. And it is clear that since there is this division, since it is so deep, it means that the institutions of social dialogue, and to some extent also Parliament, which should be a place of dialogue, and not just a political struggle, are functioning badly. And these words here, in our House, in the Senate, should fall because it is visible to the naked eye. Since demonstrations are coming, and since strikes are coming, since desperate people are moving into dramatic movements, leaving patients and someone even in front of the palace of culture is setting themselves on fire, this shows the need for a fair dialogue and, unfortunately, the diminutive results of this dialogue in those structures that are. Ladies and gentlemen, the Social Dialogue Council has a duty to report on its functioning. Unfortunately, I could not be at this meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee when it was done. However, quite recently I was at the Social Dialogue Council meeting and, because the point where I was invited, concerning the Act on Help for Independent Persons, was one in turn, I had the opportunity to see what these discussions looked like. But, ladies and gentlemen, it was disheartening not only to me but also to the participants of this committee, because it turned out that in this council of dialogue due to the rigid position of the government, the Minister's involuntaryly to any dialogue on those issues which were discussed there, in fact, at least at the time when I was there, there was no agreement. And the representatives of employers, and trade union representatives, expressed their bitterness and even pointed to the nonsense of the whole meeting, because the Minister's only answer to the question of whether he had any authority to make any concessions, any dialogue, was: no. I'm afraid we're going on the exact same tracks that led to the crisis of the trilateral committee, that impatience of the partners will eventually, and even I think, soon, be the result of what I saw, that they will leave this table sooner or later. Therefore, thinking about this law today, I asked about those issues that were raised by the social partners and were not taken into account, i.e. blocked by the government most probably, and perhaps by other partners towards each other, it is also likely, but I am interested in... I mean, I'm interested in both. It is a pity that we cannot discuss this, because perhaps some of these proposals would be worth the dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is difficult to oppose what is in the law as an agreed matter, but we cannot close our eyes on the fact that the Social Dialogue Council lacks the voice of so many fundamental issues and laws. Well, if there is no opinion of the social partners, there is no presence of them during the implementation of laws by Parliament within a few hours, how can we talk about the participation of social partners in the lawmaking and socio-economic reality in Poland? How can we speak of this when we, as the ones who have an impact on the law-making here in this House, have many times laid our hands down because there is no time for any dialogue, for any discussion? That is why I am not surprised when on the sides of the social partners I see bitter words about the functioning of the council. It is precisely that there is no time for the opinion that there is no time for expertise, that there is no discussion in the Council on fundamental issues that should be considered calmly there, negotiated in the hope of finding a compromise. This is the reality we're in. I once asked Mrs Henryka Bochniarz, who as the President of the Council at the time was here, about where is the voice of the Social Dialogue Council on a matter as important to entrepreneurs as the shape of the Polish judiciary as its independence, as the question of the Constitutional Tribunal. Finally, there are contentious matters that are important for the functioning of the entire social groups, when people try to assert their rights at different stages. This is of course of great importance for the functioning of business, for the management of EU funds, etc. In this respect, we, as a country, are being charged with serious charges. And there is no position of the Social Dialogue Council on this matter. There is no position of the key social partners on this issue, on such matters. I'd like you to keep that in mind. It would seem that it is beautiful that there is a council that social dialogue in Poland is developing, but it would seem seemingly, misleading. I agree with those involved in the dialogue in the Social Dialogue Council, who increasingly speak and write on their official pages under the heading "Evaluation of the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council" that dialogue is very often only apparent and facaded. This law will, to some extent, extend some of the topics, perhaps improve a little. However, if there is no intention of dialogue, no institutional or legal solution to this situation will change for sure. This is a fundamental issue: to understand that social dialogue is in order for the majority to have the opportunity to listen and take into account the interests of other groups, including those in minorities. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Otherwise, it is done under the auspices of a democratic rule of law, merely exerting influence or violently putting on its own instead of conducting dialogue. [[Thank you very much. Time's up.]] I call for this dialogue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u163	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I was not to speak, but I was called by Senator Rulewski, because it was stated here that agricultural solidarity, as an important relationship, was a significant force in the 1980s, together with the workers' solidarity... After 1989, it had a huge impact on the shape, the functioning of the state. I do not hide that we have put a lot of effort, both of which are solidarity, in order to have these rubbles of our country that arose after 50 years of law, as we say, enslavement... in order, however, that this system should be as we expected as a movement of solidarity that arose in 1980. Indeed, the situation in the countryside is changing, indeed the farmers are getting less and less, but as we look at the economic division of agriculture, we see that it is huge. The state budget for this is huge, the EU funds are huge, which means it is very important. Unfortunately, I must admit, we were only assigned to the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture, of course, appointed a dialogue board composed of representatives of a hundred and several organisations that serve him as a consultative body. Yeah, well, it's hard for a hundred-man representation of one person from the organization to be representative. We, when we protested in a green town, made a request, said that farmers wanted to have a council of social dialogue. Since we cannot be allowed into the Social Dialogue Council, because there are such barriers in this act, the Prime Minister should set up a dialogue board composed of agricultural representation on a comparable, say, level, but with the President of the Council of Ministers. This request is still valid today and we have recently passed on to the Prime Minister, as an agricultural solidarity, that such a council with the President of the Council of Ministers could arise if the President of the Council of Ministers wanted, and on the basis of the law we could also have such advice. But today there's no chance of it, and the village is left behind. Let me remind you that in the green town, we have been paying attention to one of the important issues: the problems of the village are not just a matter of the Minister of Agriculture, because this is about almost all the sectors of the economy that involve us. It's not like the Minister of Agriculture has health issues. Nor are science matters with the Minister of Agriculture, although it can be said that partly so, because agricultural schools are partly in the agricultural department. But education in the countryside of people associated with the city should be of great importance. That is why I have already asked the President to see this possibility and to take into account the agricultural solidarity. Of course, I can thank the President here for inviting us to the table that the Minister, who deals with agricultural matters, often invites 2, 3 organisations when matters of the countryside are discussed. But this is a table for me to say, organized in a situation where the problems of the village are being raised, in order to express an opinion to the President. I think it would be worth it, as Senator Rulewski said, for the next amendment. I will not make any proposals today to consider whether or not to join the village representatives in the dialogue board. Because these parameters will not be fulfilled today by any organization in Poland, unless we talk about a local government with which everyone is bound, but then they are not organizations, it is already a local government. In this connection, I believe that I am addressing these words to the Minister, Mr President, in the next steps, if he had the opportunity, he should see this or possibly appoint agricultural representatives himself to his council. So that I thank you for all the actions that the President is taking. I believe that at the moment this dialogue is much better than we used to when we protested in a green town. And I think that in this spirit, the good spirit in the future will be even better actions and the Polish village will also be noticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u165	Thank you very much. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I was moved to speak in this debate by Senator Augustyn, who spoke about his visit to the Social Dialogue Council. Unlike the senator, I have been a member of the Social Dialogue Council for over two years, and I think that my experience in this area is slightly greater, although not so huge. I can only confirm that the Social Dialogue Council is a very difficult undertaking, and there is no doubt about it. The parties that gather there very often disagree in each possible configuration: government with employers versus employees; government with employees versus employers; employees with employers versus government. And it is not true that there is universal agreement of this web page, let's call it, the Social Council of Dialogue or social sides of the Social Dialogue Council, and government representatives are deaf to what those parties say. It's a false image, it's not. I think that my experience, also my difficult experience, in running the social dialogue industry team in the field of health, also confirms that there are a lot of different situations that are not at all conflict between all and the representatives of the government. I think that there are a lot of different kinds of problems that are related to the perception of the Social Dialogue Council, including those who visit it at one meeting, and such a bad impression that there is no agreement there, it follows that there is a expectation of this agreement. The Social Dialogue Council is not the advice of social agreement, it is the advice of dialogue, and this is a little bit different. I think it's really important to listen to each other at these meetings. This isn't the place where they're supposed to make decisions, where the agreements are supposed to be signed. Sure, it would be perfect if something like this were possible, but I think the unique value of the Social Dialogue Council is that the parties who could not meet in other circumstances can express their expectations, their ideas, their opinions and it happens in a civilised way. This is, in my opinion, extremely important. The Social Dialogue Council is not the place to make decisions. For this reason there are other authorities of the State which by law are predisposed to prepare and take decisions. But it is this Council of Social Dialogue that I view this place as good and important for Polish democracy First of all, it has a role to respect each other and to listen to each other and then to go back to each other and, after hearing other parties' reasons, to make decisions or to express opinions, especially in the case of social parties, to formulate their expectations, which... After all, the Social Dialogue Council does not suspend consultation processes, different types of decision-making, etc., etc. I am grateful to the President for preparing this project. In my opinion, this amendment of the law is precisely proof that social dialogue is well, because it is largely prepared in consensus by all parties participating in the Social Dialogue Council. And this alone proves that you can with, perhaps with caution, but with optimism look at the further developments not only of the Council of Social Dialogue, but also of social dialogue at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u167	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Is the representative of the government or the representative of the President wishing to comment on the proposals put forward? Yes. You're welcome, Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much to Senator Radziwill, because he actually delivered me on the answer. But I would not like to see the false image that Senator Augustine presented about dialogue in Poland. If I were malicious, I could recall a time when there was no dialogue in Poland at all. E.g. This is why the Social Dialogue Council was set up. I will refer here to the issues that have been raised. The first was the question of Senator Jan Rulewski's request. Today we practice in such a way that according to the article. A representative of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government, i.e. is invited to each meeting of the Council of Social Dialogue Act. Secretary of the county union, Mr. Marek Wójcik. He has the right to speak and to speak. It's not formally entered... This topic was raised during the discussion. Mr Wojciech Kolarski also spoke about this all the time. That there was no consensus on this matter, there was no agreement on the formal introduction of the representative. The parties considered that they had their representation, which is the joint committee of government and self-government, and that this body is the body in which the issues at the interface between government and self-government should be dealt with. Here it is done through a representative who is invited. So that this issue has been resolved in this way. As far as agricultural unions are concerned, of course, it is as the senator said, that the Council of Dialogue works at the Minister of Agriculture. Exactly 103 organisations conduct this dialogue. Here's what I'm gonna say. We need to know what the role is and what the role of the Social Dialogue Council is to be. If we say they're business representatives and employees... After the amendment of the Act, also those who are employed will be co-opted. on civil law contracts. That's how we move. Representatives of Solidarity have the Agriculture Secretariat, which deals with agricultural issues. Such representation is also possible within the Social Dialogue Council when it comes to employed persons. Expansion... Of course, different formulas can be adopted here. We have set up a Social Dialogue Council in our country as a representation of employers and workers who are associated in trade unions. 11 problem groups operate within the Social Dialogue Council. You were Senator Augustine at the band meeting. It wasn't a meeting of the board of dialogue, it was a problem team that was discussing. That's what Senator Radziwiel was talking about. Discussions on various proposals are most often held at the assembly meeting. There's no decision to make. The panel shall prepare the material for the meeting of the Social Dialogue Council. Later resolutions, either the resolution of the social party, or, if there is consensus, the resolution of all parties, are taken. In addition, there are 20 industry teams in Poland that conduct a dialogue at the sectoral level. Such a team also worked with the Ministry of Health and conducted a dialogue on health care. It is known that these are not easy issues. That's the role of the council. At the committee meeting, the report of the Social Dialogue Council was unanimously adopted. This will be the subject of debate. Madam President, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, who is currently chair of the Council, will report on the last year of the Council's work. I know the debate is scheduled for September. Then you will be able to make all these comments as regards the whole functioning of the Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u169	Thank you, Minister. Since proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, please... [[Voice from the courtroom: Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes? [[Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to exercise my right to the replica.]] But, Senator... [[My name came up.]] [[There's no law. You can't do that in this part.]] But we're finishing this point. This is the end. [[I'm entitled to a five-minute speech.]] Mr. Senator, please, but very briefly and from the point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u170	Senator Radziwiłł and the Minister called me by name, so I would like to refer to their statements. I would like to say to you that what I said did not only refer to a situation that we are familiar with, where without any opinion of the Council of Social Dialogue, we receive a law of fundamental importance. I don't think anybody in this House will deny it. And that is why, as I read in one of these opinions, the authority does not pay attention to the voice of the social partners, adopts important solutions without expert opinion, without public debate... Hence the call to avoid a false and facade social dialogue. These were quotes from the websites of the official partners of the Social Dialogue Council. However, I would ask you to consider this. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u171	Thank you, Senator. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 898 and the report of the Commission In print No 898 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: There was and there isn't.]] [[There's no senator. Mr. Marshal, there is no senator.]] Perhaps the senator has resigned... [[Totally. That would be nice.]] You're a senator. Welcome to the podium. [[I've seen everything that's happened.]] [[Mr. Marshal was worried about your senator.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the joint meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. The Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on 9 July considered the Law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment, print No 898. This law was adopted by the Sejm on 5 July 2018 and is one of the key legislative initiatives of the government implementing the Priority National Housing Programme. In this respect, it complements the other instruments of the package, which are intended to improve the availability of housing in Poland. The Commission has taken a positive view of the law, with a number of substantive and legislative amendments being proposed for effective implementation of the socially important programme. They will be presented in the following part of my speech. The Act introduces a payment scheme for rent, which has 2 objectives. Firstly, a social one consisting of directing non-refundable financial assistance to those with income that hinders the self-fulfilment of housing needs and, secondly, an investment to address payments to tenants of new apartments, which will increase the volume of housing investments. These payments will be intended for tenants of apartments built or provided with revitalization activities in the framework of the cooperation of investors with municipalities. In this case, the target group is people who face transitional problems with self-sustaining housing and fulfil other statutory conditions. The payments will allow the rent paid directly by the tenant to be reduced. Part of the rent determined by the landlord will cover non-refundable support from the State budget. The initial recruitment of tenants of apartments covered by the scheme will be carried out by municipalities based on local preferences. However, the final decision to conclude lease agreements will depend on the investor. He will assess whether the household has the ability to pay the rent on time to guarantee its solvency. Applications for aid will be submitted to the municipal office. Support will be granted by decision for 15 years, but every year the household will be subject to verification of compliance with the income condition. As far as monthly subsidies are concerned, they will depend on the average cost of building apartments in the municipality and so-called. the normative area determined by the number of persons in the household. The Law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment is a legislative initiative of the government, but in the course of the work of the Sejm in relation to this initial submission of the Council of Ministers we are introducing some important modifications which have been approved by the Government. Thus, the mechanism for determining the amount of the aid has been corrected. Where the annual verification shows that the income of the tenant's household is higher than the statutory income limits, the tenant may continue to receive aid but at a reduced rate. It will be used so-called. It's a gold rule. It's a gold rule. The removal of aid will occur only if the amount of excess is at least equal to the payment to the rent or less than 25 PLN. It was assumed that the monthly surcharge should not be less than 25 PLN. It was possible to apply for subsidies for tenants who settled in a newly built apartment 12 months before the date of entry into force of the Act. The aid will therefore be granted to the tenants of apartments formed in cooperation with the municipalities, who were the first to join the new or substantially modified by the government of social housing programmes and the pilotage of the culmination part of the package. This ensures equal treatment of tenants of new apartments built as part of the 2016 package of changes that activate the construction of apartments for rent. The flexibility of new solutions has also been increased, including: in the context of the possibility of taking into account local circumstances in the implementation of the programme by the municipalities. The recruitment of tenants of apartments will be carried out using the so-called. priority criteria. In this respect, the possibility for municipalities, in addition to the priority criteria chosen from the statutory catalogue, to determine the criteria not indicated in the law but justified by the local housing situation was allowed. Moreover, the possibility for investors to conclude agreements with municipalities at a later stage than to prepare for the implementation of the investment is clarified. One of the important areas covered by the aid scheme will be housing newly built under the social housing scheme, in particular new investments in TBS, already in the case of preferential loans of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego supporting, performing... in cooperation with the municipality. With this in mind, the Sejm adopted amendments to the Act of 26 October 1995 on certain forms of housing promotion. They increase the possibility of obtaining a newly built dwelling in so-called resources. TBS. They introduce the possibility of supplementing the missing funds to finance the new investment by engaging in investment in the funds of the closed investment fund. The contribution of the Fund to TBS will be an option to replace the required contribution of the future tenant, co-financing by the tenant of investment costs in the form of so-called. own participation. The amendment responds in this respect to the problem of families who do not have the resources to contribute to the participation and the available offer to finance their own contribution on the basis of credit. In such a situation, income and property households applying for housing in TBS are one of the key groups to which the rent subsidy scheme is addressed. The last group of substantive changes introduced at the seymary stage was the extension of the maximum period of application of the aid from 9 to 15 years and the possibility of applying the aid to subsequent tenants of the apartment within 20 years after the completion of the residential investment. In the original version of the Seym, there was no record of this... This was not in the original version of the government project, it was in the Sejm that this change was introduced. It will provide more stability for tenants in the maintenance of the apartment. In addition, it will increase the effectiveness of support instruments, enabling e.g. exchange of apartments between tenants. In this context, the limitation of the maximum period of application of aid for a given dwelling will ensure the stability and predictability of the system of aid in terms of public funding. The extension of the period for the payment of rent payments results in a sufficiently longer horizon for the release of funds for new benefits as a result of the end of the payment period by the beneficiary of the scheme. As a rule, it'll be 15 years. It was therefore justified that the maximum level of funding for the programme after 2029 should increase from a fixed level of up to 2,2 billion PLN to a maximum of 3.2 billion PLN in 2034. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, 9 July this year. At a joint meeting, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure welcomed the law by proposing 6 substantive and legislative amendments. First amendment, to Article. The aim of point 7, is to remove interpretational doubts concerning the concept of housing related to the incomplete definition contained in the Act, as also pointed out by the legislator. In the proposed wording, according to the intention of the designer, the dwelling is a self-contained dwelling within the meaning of the Property Property Act, located in a building consisting of at least 2 premises or in a single-family house. Second amendment. This is a group of amendments, and the purpose of this group of amendments concerning the conversion of the concept of "residual residence," related to the right to aid, to the concept of "residence," is in turn to remove interpretation doubts and to apply the concept of "residence." Making such an amendment is proposed in several articles which require such an amendment I'm not going to replace them here. Third amendment, Article. Point 7 (2) (a) (ii) b, aims to exclude interpretation doubts concerning one of the parameters taken into account by the tenant when assessing the rental capacity of the future tenant. At the same time, it points out that it is possible to cover the amount due on the lease agreement also at the stage of the contract and not only on the date of the emptying of the premises. This is complementary to the changes introduced in the scope of the deposit under the institutional lease agreement by the so-called. I'm an apartment specialist. And the fourth amendment, to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1) and to Article 3 15. The purpose of this amendment is to allow the submission of an application for aid already at the stage of the conclusion of a contract requiring the conclusion of a lease contract, i.e. after the conclusion of the so-called contract. a reservation agreement. This amendment will allow the payment to be made already in the context of the first rent required by the landlord in connection with the rent. And in the case of the government version, it would simply not be possible to use the first subsidy. Amendment five, to Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 8 and Article 3 18. These changes are linked to the decision of the Sejm to introduce the possibility for subsequent tenants to obtain aid. As a result of this decision, the regulation of the Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, the protection of the right to be paid by another tenant entering into the rights of the contracting party in the event of the death of the tenant receiving the payment is redundant because... If the next tenant is entitled to benefit, then this provision is redundant. That is why the amendment simply proposes deleting these entries. Amendment six, to Article. 35, will allow entry into force within 14 days of the publication of the law preparing for the launch of the aid, i.e. concerning the recruitment of tenants and the conclusion of lease contracts and letting tenants into the system who have not settled before the date of entry into force of the Act. This is in line with the previous rulings in the Act, according to which the provisions on agreements between investors and municipalities and agreements between municipalities and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will already enter into force, as well as the obligation for municipalities to determine by resolution, among others. rules for the recruitment of tenants. Mr Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the joint committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, I request that the amendments discussed be adopted by the Senate of the Republic of Poland and that the entire bill be adopted in the proposed form that I have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Investment and Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Mr Senator explained this very competently.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek. You're welcome. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, using the fact that you're in session, I have a brief question. Well, this bill isn't controversial, so we're just gonna be discussing this next one. In five minutes, could you give us the essence of this bill? The senator has discussed it quite extensively, very widely, but we all want to understand what is really going on. First of all, I have a question. One quick question and I won't ask anymore. What conditions will the tenant have to meet in order to receive the payment? This was widely discussed, so that the most important ones please specify. How will the amount of aid be fixed? Oh, that's important too. Whether it's equal to the surcharge or in some way... And who will depend on this final decision to conclude the lease agreement? [[That was three questions.]] There won't be any more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u175	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In a few sentences, I'll talk about the bill itself. We need an instrument that will meet the 2 assumptions behind our housing policy, behind the Living + programme. The most important social objective is the aid to those who do not receive such aid from the State today. This is the group of people who, on the one hand, do not meet the social criteria, i.e. there is no chance of support under the social policy of the state, e.g. through investments supporting local government in the field of municipal construction. For this purpose, the Polish state will allocate over PLN 6 billion by 2025 in order to increase the municipal housing stock for the least wealthy, the most needy. On the other hand, it is the group of people who do not have the chance to build or buy an apartment from their own resources, and is also dismissed in a situation where they try to make a mortgage commitment to purchase such an apartment. We estimate that even 40% of the population is located between these social criteria and an offer on the market, which today requires an increased supply of housing. Because the demand for an apartment is huge, and because this demand is huge, these margins and these housing prices are very, very high. As for the questions you asked, Senator Florek, I'll answer. What conditions should the tenant fulfil? The tenant has 2 essential conditions to meet. He can't have his own apartment. If it has a cooperative tenant's or tenant's residence, it must give up this lease or the cooperative tenant's right. And it must also meet the income criterion. This income criterion is relatively high in the bill, because we defined it as 60%. the average salary on the single-person holding and 30% on the next household member. In practice, it's like this. Let's try to figure it out in our heads. That if we have a four-person family, 2 adults and 2 children, this bar is suspended at a level of 1,600 PLN per person. This is a much, much higher criterion than a social criterion. What is the amount of the surcharge? The amount of the aid depends on 2 elements. We're tearing her away on purpose. In order to ensure that there is no doubt about it, I would also like to stress this at the Senate meeting in particular. From the amount of the rent. It is associated with 2 parameters: with the parameter so called. restoration value, i.e. real investment costs in various locations of Poland 'Cause these costs are different in different places in Poland and it's completely obvious and so-called. the normative area that we have written down as the area per person and per person in the household. The first person in the household is 20 m2 and each person in the household is 15 m2. If you follow the example I mentioned, i.e. with two adults and two children, the apartment will have 60 m2 and the rent will be 20 PLN/m2 in the case of such a family, i.e. one thousand 200 PLN per month, this family can receive less than 400 PLN each month. Who's gonna decide who's gonna make the deal? The whole process is based on the agreement of the municipality with the investor first, then the municipalities with the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego Fund. So the investor comes to the municipality, says he's going to make an investment that could be covered by the subsidy scheme, and he makes an agreement with the municipality, and the municipality determines what apartments he needs. We have written down the priority criteria in the act, but the local government will have a final opinion on what criteria best fit the local, adequate, as far as the local community is concerned, needs. Of course, we have defined this catalogue wide enough not to exclude anyone from this help. Of course, children and help for families are preferred, but there are also people with disabilities, older ones, e.g. Poles from the East, repatriates... We want this social structure, which is included in these subsidies and in these apartments, to be varied. Nevertheless, this municipality will be able, thanks to the amendment which has been adopted, to indicate its own separate criteria which will meet local needs. After discussions with parliamentarians in the Sejm, we have such expectations that the subsidy programme should cover, for example, some professional group necessary in a given place For example, when a hospital needs nurses and the city wants to keep them, giving some additional preferences, e.g. in the form of an apartment. And this possibility also according to this law will also be possible and the municipalities will have freedom in this regard. And ultimately, the municipalities will select the people within these criteria, and the agreement will, of course, be signed by an investor. And it's on his account that these funds will be directed at Because the funds will follow the tenant, but it is not the tenant who will receive them for his account, but the tenant who rents this apartment. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions... [[No, I'm sorry, there's another question. Senator Czerwinski.]] There's another question. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u178	Yes, Mr. Marshal, there's another question for the Minister. I mean, does the municipality have a duty, a duty, to enter this programme? In particular, is he obliged to adopt an appropriate resolution? Because that's where it all starts. It's a resolution from the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Why am I talking about this? Because there is no transitional provision to indicate the time limit for this resolution to be adopted. So the theory is that there is a bill, everything is already in the air, and the commune says: well, we have not yet adopted a resolution. Of course, it would be a little unreasonable, but things happen in nature.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u179	It is right that the senator pays attention to the construction of our cooperation with the local government in general. It is that the local government takes decisions in the interest of the local community and its inhabitants. It is difficult to imagine a situation in which the local government would not have adopted an appropriate resolution, at the same time accepting the location of the investment in this mode, i.e. investments covered by the aid scheme. We didn't put the deadline on purpose. This is the response to the offers of those investors who will be part of this Payment Fund. So if BGKN comes to the commune or the commune wants to expand TBS, and we'll prepare, for example. in September, huge funds for social rent construction It will be over PLN 1 billion for local governments, among others. whether, first of all, TBS and if a housing cooperative or a private investor is interested, because this is also possible in this way, the municipality will have to adopt such a resolution. Well, but yes, there is no time limit here that would oblige the municipality to adopt this resolution at a certain time. But this is the task of the municipalities and we have this project agreed with the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government and we give the municipalities an instrument for housing policy. I think it would be irrational for the municipalities not to use such an instrument.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u180	Thank you very much, Minister. More? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I cannot ask this question in this House, the Minister should know why. Two committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, practically in the previous and during this term, were the initiators of the Law on individual savings accounts. I, of course, fully support this direction of the government, the Housing Council, for state aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of the lease, would ask whether the adoption of this law would result in the total exclusion of the individual housing account bill prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure, which, in our opinion, the senators, has some advantages in relation to other public aid instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Housing policy is decided by the Housing Council, headed by the Prime Minister, who defines among others. for me, for the Ministry of Investment and Development priorities. These priorities are the set of laws that we present to you. The first law deals with the Homestay, the rent subsidy, that is the law we are talking about. In a moment, we will be discussing a law to facilitate the implementation of housing investments. I think that there will be another law soon, because in Parliament there is work on a law that eliminates perpetual use on residential land. One of the projects that I think, at least to some extent, will respond to the senator's expectations, is the draft law on the so-called. The REITs we are working on together with the Minister of Finance. I think that this project will also soon be addressed to parliamentary work and will give the chance that, say, average Kowalski could not only save money but also invest in housing. It will be an instrument that will also create tools for greater capital involvement in housing, i.e. it will achieve the common goal that we are looking for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Law on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments. The text of the Act is contained in print No 902, and the committee report In print No 902 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Law on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments adopted by the Sejm on 5 July 2018; print No 902. The aim of the Act is to support the implementation of the National Housing Programme. The Act is also part of a package of measures to support housing that is also available to low and average earners. It is a tool to reduce housing deficits and bring about a situation where the basic parameters determining the level of housing needs will not deviate from the average value of the developed countries of the European Union. The main objective of the proposed law is to introduce regulations that allow for a significant acceleration of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments. The Act also provides for the introduction of specific rules for the location of housing investments and associated investments aimed at speeding up the investment process. The reduction of the administrative burden associated with the implementation of these investments will reduce significant investment risks and thus increase the possibility of preparing such investments and carrying them out in an efficient and efficient manner. The law under discussion will be open to all entities implementing housing investments as long as they comply with the standards laid down in the law. At the same time, the draft law does not exclude the possibility of preparing or implementing all or part of the housing investment or accompanying investment under general rules laid down in separate provisions. The location of the investment will be determined by the council of the municipality by a resolution adopted at the request of the investor. The investor's request to determine the location of the investment will be subject to consultation with the local community concerned. In addition, the assessment of the planned investment will be carried out by the same authorities and entities that carry out this assessment in the ordinary procedure for adopting the local plan, except for the voivodship conservationist, road manager and geological administration. The municipality council will be required to issue a resolution within 60 days of the date of the investor's request, with the possibility of extending the deadline by 30 days. The realization of housing investments will be possible where in the studies of conditions and directions of spatial development the municipality predicted areas for residential construction. The investment will also be possible in areas which in the past have been used as railway, military, production or postal services. generational, post-production and post-mail services, and these functions are currently not carried out in these areas. In this way, residential buildings will be able to use areas where, due to their functions in the study, this is currently not possible, and these areas are equipped with the necessary infrastructure and comply with the urban standards set out in the Act. Housing investments or associated investments shall not be located in areas protected from localisation or construction under separate provisions, unless the investor obtains authorisation under the provisions providing for such protection for the location of the housing investment or associated investment. Preparing for housing investment will be preceded by drawing up a urban-architectonic concept containing functional and spatial solutions for residential investment, taking into account the nature of local and local development. These concepts will be developed by people with expertise and experience in space planning, including urban planners and architects who are currently preparing projects of local plans and construction conditions. The housing investment will have to comply with high urban standards, which are framed by the law. The municipality itself will have the right to increase or reduce the standards required of the investor by 50% of the indicators laid down in the Act, specifying local urban standards by means of a resolution. In addition, the municipality will be able to determine the number of parking spaces necessary for the operation of the residential and accompanying investment and the obligation to provide access to the heating network. Buildings built will require a decision to allow use. The competent county building surveillance inspector will verify the compatibility of the housing investment or investment accompanying the urban standards. It was also proposed to amend the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code as regards the extension of the institutional lease formula to lease contracts with the intended transfer of ownership of the premises. The bill will be in effect for 10 years. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 9 July, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration held a joint meeting. During the meeting a very substantive discussion was held on the solutions contained in the Act. Provisions were discussed to enable the implementation of the investment regardless of the existence or arrangements of local spatial planning plans, but provided that the planned investment was compatible with the study of the conditions and directions of spatial planning of the municipality. There was also a solution to enable investment in rural, railway and industrial areas, which could not yet be used for residential and post office construction. It was also suggested to define a catalogue of separate provisions which provide for the protection of land from localisation and construction. The procedure for organising investments planned in the law and supervisory measures were discussed in relation to the decisions taken by the municipality. Urban standards and public participation in the decision-making process were also raised. At the committee meeting, amendments were tabled concerning: firstly, the obligation of the municipality council to conclude in the resolution to establish the location of the investment of the economic analysis and the forecasts of the financial consequences of the investment; secondly, the question of the urban and architectural concept raised at the stage of the seymical work by the Chamber of Architects of the Republic of Poland. The Legislative Office has also proposed a number of legislative amendments. A motion to reject the law in its entirety has also been made. The amendments I was talking about and the motion to reject the law were not supported by the joint committees. These amendments and the motion to reject the law were submitted as minority requests. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, I request the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Piotr Flork, to present the conclusions of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the minority in the Act of 5 July 2018 on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments. The minority position concerns the rejection of the entire law and, if it is not rejected, the introduction of 14 amendments. And now the reasons for the motion to reject the bill. One can first ask the question: why do we need another special act? Let me remind you that we recently adopted a specialty on the construction of the Central Communication Port. So what's the point of another specialty? The answer's probably pretty simple. Law and Justice has a great problem with fulfilling the promise of building apartments under the program He pretends that the first apartments from this program have already been put into service in Biała Podlaskia and Jarocina. The work on the programme, as you know, we remember the debate in the Senate, was moved from the ministry to the ministry. We remember the discussion about where the Minister of Construction is, where there are construction cases in which the Ministry talked about these changes here. Minister Tomasz Żuchowski was dismissed from his post on 8 March 2018. I remind you that he announced that the urban and construction code, the one with these simplifications, the facilitations of the investment to be made, will enter into force in October, November, then was the date: the end of the year, i.e. 1 January 2018. He didn't come into force, and Minister Żuchowski isn't here. This time, another special act, presented by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Minister Arthur Sobonia, appointed on 7 February 2018, is to be a rescue for the You haven't had much time, Minister, but a bill has been prepared, which we, of course, judge very critically. I would like to remind you that the special act is something unique, which is generally used to meet public needs. There are many specialities that have been adopted in Poland, but the main one, the most important one is the road law, concerning linear investments. She makes it possible, for example. expropriation of land. Where there are no buy-outs, the special act shall regulate the expropriation of the land. But this special act is something else, completely new in our legislation, so far unheard of. We predicted that the Act on KZN, i.e. the National Property Resources, would not achieve its purpose. We remember the discussion we had here in the Senate. This bill turned out to be It's not just my opinion, it's my colleagues'. A complete failure of the PiS, so another SOS signal had to be turned on to rescue. The question can be asked how many contracts KZN signed with housing operators, whether they are willing to sign contracts offered under these conditions and how many KZN took over the land for its registration. I remember asking you why double that record. If there's land records, why create something new? I'll remind you, it was supposed to be a cheap apartment, it was supposed to be half the rent normalized for 15 years, it was supposed to be getting to the property in 30 years, the other half of the rent was supposed to be commercial. We said it would be very difficult. But we do have a National Property Resource. The flyer we got says that the National Property Resource will build the so-called. Apartments +. This Act of 5 July 2018 was proceded in the Sejm at an express rate, contrary to the principles of correct legislation. It was passed, of course, by majority votes, law and justice, and went to the Senate. In view of the lack of time, the Senate Legislative Office limited its opinion to a number of proposals for amendments. The Act restricts in a drastic way the opinion of self-government The municipality's autonomy in terms of spatial planning creates a danger of chaotic development. It will lead to social conflicts and its effects will be irreversible. Cities and municipalities must develop in a balanced way, in accordance with the will of the inhabitants. Stable municipal policy improves the security and security of investment processes. At the consultation stage, there were many oppositions from local governments and the project was negatively assessed by the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. The government had no choice but to relinquish, in my opinion, the very clever idea of giving planning power to implement housing investments of government administration, i.e. voivodeships. The voivode was supposed to make the location decision. Now, after the changes, it will be decided by the council of the municipality in a resolution which may be either positive or negative. The municipality will not be able to refuse to establish a location without providing an adequate justification. This is necessary, the justification is required in case of refusal. However, if the housing needs of the municipality are not met, this will be practically impossible. I have a question: how many municipalities are there in Poland that are satisfied with all housing needs? I'll quote the exact wording of the article. Paragraph 7 4 which reads: The Council of the Municipality shall adopt a resolution establishing the location or refusing to establish the location of the investment within 60 days of the date on which the investor lodges the application referred to in paragraph 1. 1. The municipality council, when adopting a resolution, takes into account the state of the housing needs of the municipality And I'm going to add what the Minister particularly stresses here, because that also matters. The municipality's development needs and opportunities resulting from the findings of the study of the conditions and directions of the municipality's spatial development. I remind you that all resolutions of the municipality are subject to supervision of voivodships on the basis of compliance criteria, including negative ones. In the event of a supervisory decision, the voivodeship of the municipality is entitled to a complaint to the voivodship and then to the Supreme Administrative Court. The resolution of the municipality may be brought against any person whose legal interests or powers have been infringed by the resolution in question. Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act: The housing investment or ancillary investment shall be carried out irrespective of the existence or arrangements of the local spatial planning plan, provided that it is not contrary to the study of the conditions and directions of the municipality's spatial development and the resolution on the establishment of the cultural park. Now I'm going to quote the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4: The condition of inconclusiveness from the study does not apply to areas which in the past have been used as railway, military, production or postal services, and these functions are currently not carried out in these areas. And, ladies and gentlemen, the bright gate. There's no doubt about it, all the local governmentmen are paying attention to it. It may not be in accordance with the plan, but it must be in harmony with the study, and there are such exceptions in the study. In other words, especially in these railway, rural, post-production areas, post-mail services, etc. There won't be a problem. And this looks different in different cities, e.g. There are cities in which such large areas are located in the centre. The whole procedure, the way in which the municipal council adopts a resolution, is described in the Act. Of course, the investor must submit an application to the executive body. The mayor or the president, as there will certainly be all these possibilities, will turn to... first publish it on the site of the commune, must publish it in the BIP so that anyone interested can read it within 3 weeks and possibly make some comments, although it is not known how they will be considered. And after that time, it will have to be decided by the municipality. The municipality has two months to adopt this resolution. Maybe this time will be longer by a month if we find that we need some additions. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the passing of time, and I know that by 2:00 p.m. we are due to be sitting today, I will not discuss this law further. I think that the rapporteur of the committee has quite extensively discussed what procedures these are, so I'm going to skip these procedures. But I will return to the committee meeting that took place on 9 July, which was referred to by the rapporteur's colleague. It was in such a way that the Legislative Bureau had tabled amendments and the Minister had expressed a positive opinion. Minister, you have expressed a positive opinion. Five amendments were proposed and all except for the proposal for amendment 4 were referred to in Article. 5, as I recall, to separate provisions which, according to the Legislative Bureau, should be mentioned... Senator Rotnicka also spoke at the committee meeting on this subject. These proposals were taken over by Senator Pekkis and Senator Hamerski, except for the proposal of amendment four. Mr. Senator Dobkowski At the meeting of the committee, he supported these frames. But what happened that Mr Grzegorz Pekkis spoke again at the meeting after a while and said that because the Minister withdrew his support for these amendments, he also withdrew his support for the proposals he had tabled? When the Minister withdrew his support, I don't know. Apparently, they were in the middle of some kind of consultation. That's when Senator Grabowski applied for the bill without amendment. As Senator Rotnicka pointed out, such requests have recently become a rule at committee meetings. Then why discuss it at the committee meeting, why discuss it when it all ends with a motion to adopt a law without amendment? So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I'm going to say that minority proposals are a motion to reject the bill, and If it is not rejected, the proposal for amendments to the Act. There are a total of 14 amendments that I tabled at the beginning of the meeting and which I took over after Senator Pekkis withdrew. They were proposed by the Legislative Bureau. There are also amendments that I have tabled, proposals from the Polish Chamber of Architects from this magazine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support the motion to reject the bill. If it's accepted, then in a short time after it's operational... Of course, one can expect to hear from local governments about this law. This is interference. That's what I'm gonna say, getting into the boots of the government. There hasn't been a bill like this before. Really, it will be a mess to implement. I am convinced that there will be not only a mess but also resistance. Great resistance from local governments. If that's what you want, you'll take the bill. I would like to make it clear that we will not support this law. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u187	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. You signed up for Senator Rybicki. Which of the rapporteurs would you like to ask a question to? [[The Senator of the majority.]] You're welcome, Senator. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u188	Mr. Senator! I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur about the outcome of the joint committee meeting and whether representatives of the Commission of the Common Government and the Local Government, representatives of local corporations, as well as chambers of industry of architects and urbanists were invited to this meeting. What were the opinions of these institutions? That's the first question. Second question, a little bit related to the first one. The implementation of the provisions of the Act would make it appear that the policy preferred by the Government of Law and Justice of the integrity of construction, the non-emergence of construction beyond compact spaces in the city and in rural areas would destroy plans and actions that would prevent spatial chaos. After all, this law gives developers or investors tools to build residential buildings as if in isolation from compact urban buildings, which will impose additional costs on the local government related to access roads, communication, kindergartens etc. These are the 2 questions, the opinions of the local government and the joint government committee, and the consequences of the introduction of a law on spatial governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u189	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u190	With regard to the opinion of the Chamber of Architects, the opinion of the Chamber was received by the committee. Maybe I can read it. It's short, only amendments are longer. In connection with the transfer by the Marshal of the Sejm to the Senate of the Law on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments and the meeting of the Senate Infrastructure Committee on the subject on 9 July this year. we forward legislative amendments to this law to you, with a request for consideration by the Commission. We presented the issues covered by the amendments to the Deregulation Commission of the Polish Parliament on 4 July this year, which examined the draft law at first reading. They were accepted with understanding, but due to the shortened legislative procedure they were not examined. These amendments concern substantive issues, which in our opinion should be clarified, regardless of the assessment of the whole law. It is therefore justified to take them even at the last stage of the procedure. There are proposals for amendments that were taken over by Senator Flork. Here, in this opinion, these amendments are even described in detail, but it does not seem to be about me detailing them, reading them and justifying them. They've been voted negative by the committee. It follows that the Chamber of Architects simply proposed amendments, but there was no negative opinion of the Chamber of Architects, she simply wanted some things to be clarified and these amendments to be amended by the law. As regards the joint committee of government and local government, the Minister informed that the project had been assessed by the committee of government and local government. Maybe I would ask you to tell the Minister about the details here, because we didn't ask about the details of this opinion, we just know that the project was being evaluated. As far as opinions are concerned, this law has been passed to the opinion... this law has been opinionated and by the local government, and by other entities since March this year. So that saying that it's in an emergency mode, that this bill comes in like this... Well, in fact, the whole procedure associated with this bill is pretty fast, because for example. to the Senate, this law entered the Senate committee in such an urgent manner, but it cannot be said that it was proposed by the government suddenly, because it had already been mentioned since March and in the public opinion this law has already functioned. So it cannot be said here that she is completely made of a hat, that is, thrown into the Sejm and procededed in an emergency mode, because, as I say, there have already been discussions on this subject since March and there have been consultations. And what else was there at the end? [[Spatial charge...]] It's a spatial charge. [[...and the chaos of the buildings that this bill introduces.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen... [[And to what extent it is consistent with the policy of the PiS government, because earlier actions have rather accumulated and concentrated buildings rather than distracted them.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill is to match the European average in terms of building housing within 10 years. It is assumed that it will be built from 2 to 3 million apartments in these 10 years. And in order to do that, there must be tools, there must be possibilities. Right now, it's all about acquiring new land and land, as I say, just... It's not entirely that it's chaos. That's right... The Minister spoke like that. Land development plans... The adoption of these plans, the whole procedure is very long at all, takes about 3 years, and sometimes lasts up to 10 years, so every year we manage to introduce about 1% new plans. In total, there is an average of about 16% in Poland. ...Senator Florek here said that in the case of cities there's 30%, I didn't verify it, but there's an average of 16%. So if we were to acquire these areas in this way, there would be no way, let's say, to be equal to the European average within 10 years. You just have to do it in faster mode. As I said in the report, it will be necessary for these areas... This will be in the areas for which the study of the conditions will be conducted, as well as the plans for spatial development of the area, i.e. the directions of this plan provided by the municipalities. So that this will be implemented in these areas. It won't be as freely... Moreover, as regards the decision on these plans, it will be adopted by a resolution of the municipality. It is true that after that there is still the possibility of interference of the voivodship. In any case, if the municipality e.g. She won't give consent or negative consent, which means they won't approve at all, she's gonna have to justify why she doesn't do it at all... well, what are the reasons why she doesn't do it. There are also areas that are shut down, e.g. for environmental reasons, protected areas, etc. Such areas are not subject to this, they are excluded when it comes to construction. [[The question is...]] Senator Rotnicka in the cockroaches said she was afraid because the neighborhoods are in the centre of Poznan, so... This was not discussed at the committee meeting, but in my opinion such apartments will not be built in the centre of Poznań, because then the rent would be expensive and simply not interested in building such apartments, and then to rent them and pay expensive rents. In my opinion, they will be in areas where rents are simply small.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u191	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u192	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. You're an experienced man, and we both know that all of a sudden, it's for the devil. We've learned that in the last two and a half years here, when we've corrected everything we've done on our knees. The first question I ask you as an experienced senator, the rapporteur, is: why such an acceleration on this bill? We know that this legislative process is unclear. First, the act quickly passes through the Sejm, and now, without prior information, appears in the Senate. Why, for God's sake? My second question concerns urban standards. I've been in construction for 50 years, and I know what complicated matter this is. There are no records, there are no indications of what the minimum standards are. Now that we're saying the commune can lower its standards... But to what level? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: The bill says that...]] After all, we want to make legal acts... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: The bill says.]] ...which will provide everyone in our country with similar living conditions, at least on a basic level. And the third question: why does the project not provide for any economic analysis? I'll say it again because it's important: why isn't there an economic analysis? Neither the forecast of the financial consequences of the investment attached to the resolution on the location of the residential investment or, of course, the associated investments are required, nor... After all, this is absolutely necessary. Anyone who's ever touched on this subject will find that without economic analysis they won't do it because it's gonna be bullshit. Economic analysis, the forecasts made should prevent investment by the unscathed... [[Mr. Senator, the question is not the speech.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. They can stop certain investors, municipalities or individuals from building where there is no need for such an investment. I think that's a clear question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u194	When it comes to these concerns... Because you're concerned about the urban-architectonic concept. The Act provides that the preparation of a housing investment will be preceded by the development of a urban-architectonic concept containing functional and spatial solutions for housing investment, taking into account the nature of the buildings in the locality and surrounding area. These concepts will be developed by people with expertise, experience in spatial planning, including urban planners and architects who are currently preparing projects of local plans and construction conditions. So that the bill provides for it. Well, it's hard for the bill to make this case specific, that is, in detail. The bill, so to speak, delegates it to professionals who are specialists in this field. We've got these specialists here, too. The senator is and knows what it's like. I'm not an urbanist, and I'm not doing this to... well, at home I can plan something, but I can't, let's just say, I have a concept of building Warsaw or some other place. Urbanism is a kind of art at all, it's like art science and professionals have to do it. And the bill is predicting that it's the professionals who's gonna be doing this. You asked me about the economic analysis. I think it's gonna be... I don't know if it should be regulated by law. Of course, all investments must simply be economical. I think this is the town that... It is also taken into account that the municipality authorities themselves know best what housing needs are in their municipality, etc. E.g. in cities where there were large industrial plants, there are a lot of apartments and I don't think there are any big housing estates in such cities at all, because they won't be willing to live in such apartments. But where industry is developing, where there are more and more people, where more and more people live, there are these needs. And these things will be dealt with as soon as possible. This just can't be done, I think, in the bill... Maybe I'm wrong, but maybe you can give the minister more details. I believe that all investments should be considered economically.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u195	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u196	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Flork. I was interested in this bill and it was changed significantly. I would like to ask the senator for his opinion and ask if there were any questions raised at the committee's meeting regarding the fact that this law is a tribute to the failure of the scheme, i.e. what happened to this program and what a legal and organizational bubble it turned out to be. I would like the senator to take this into account, and to say what they will consist of, following the changes made by the Ministry, these simplifications as regards the possibility of applying for a building permit, wherever it may be, in an area not covered by development plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The law was, of course, amended in a quite fundamental way, because the most important provision in the law was that the localization decision was to issue a voivode, i.e. the government administration was to interfere with what would arise in a given municipality. And we're talking about different areas. There are smaller areas with which there was no problem, but there are also large areas. The minister talked about construction even, I don't know, a few thousand settlements etc. And in such areas, the synchronization of everything without the participation of the municipality, without cooperation with the municipality is of course without a chance, there is no possibility. The governor wouldn't have been able to take any action. Therefore, this particular change can be assessed very positively, the change which has been introduced, abstracting from the whole law, because the whole act is not good. But it was a good direction to actually keep this power in the commune. The Minister said that there would be cooperation to some extent, etc., but we know what life looks like, that it is not. So, getting out of this... Because that's what happens in all the specials. In all special laws, it's the voivode who makes the location decision. This is where it's been abandoned, and it's right that it's abandoned. With regard to how this procedure is to be done, of course for each document here it was mentioned... In the Act we have listed the documents to be submitted, the documents to be submitted by the investor who will apply to the mayor, the mayor or the president who will accept it and then present them to the Council. It is mentioned what specific documents must be submitted. Well, of course the architectural analysis must be, but in the case of large areas, etc. It's definitely not enough, it's not enough. And as for what the senator mentioned, which is economic analysis, the economic consequences of adopting this... After all, we know the consequences of adopting a spatial planning plan, which is a problem. Often the municipalities do not want to adopt a spatial planning plan precisely because the adoption of a spatial planning plan will result in the neighborhood, etc... What can happen, what can happen, how the amount of land value can be raised, etc., what will have to be done, what are the tasks of the municipality at that moment, infrastructure, all the development, etc.. Therefore, without such an analysis, of course, and this is not provided for in this Act... since there is no such thing as this, there is no such thing. There's got to be one in the development plan. I understand it's not in the so-called. Wookies. I don't want to develop this topic because it's another very broad topic and when we get into a discussion about what it looks like, what they're for, what they're for, good neighborhood... Of course, there's a lot of downsides here, too, we can agree on that. Anyway, this bill has big shortcomings, she doesn't solve these problems. That's why I don't know if investors will even be interested in this subject, this cooperation, or that one. Private is certainly not, unless some others rise up, which may not yet exist, maybe they will be interested. In this bill, in order to solve this in some way, there are still standards. Of course, these are standards that haven't been there so far. I'll give you an example. I'll read it because I don't want to give it that way. In cities up to 100,000 inhabitants, the height of the building is 5 floors. Five, if I recall... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: 4th floor.]] [[Four floors.]] And I'm sorry, four floors, the Minister fixed me up, four floors, four floors, which is depending on how we count, the ground floor, etc., four floors. Except the Minister has already said that there are derogations, there are limits, and there really are about 40% of them. If there's any, which means there could be six or there could be two. I can't imagine the city... I could give an example of several cities in Poland with fewer than 100,000 inhabitants, and among the former voivodships, because there used to be 49 voivodships, almost all of them located here, crossing this border, most of which have between 50 and 100,000 inhabitants, so of course this standard will apply to them. Senator, another example. There is, for example. such a case that an investor, in terms of infrastructure, will have to provide adequate distance to school, kindergarten, etc., that is mentioned in the Act. And if there's no school... He'll be able to deliver, for example. For five years, but he's gonna have to pay for it, pay the right amount to keep the kids in custody for five years. And let me ask you, what happens after five years? What happens next? What happens if there's no infrastructure? It is a matter of building the entire infrastructure. Will there be an investor who's gonna have to talk about everything... To prepare a plan... It's not as simple as it looks. In the case of large investments, it is necessary to have an environmental decision, a decision on environmental conditions. It is in accordance with the law, the law determines when it is needed. That's where we're gonna need it. I can't imagine. The environmental decision, etc. That all this will be realized in a short time. Similarly, the procedure for adopting a resolution by the municipal council and then the appeal. What's gonna happen... I'm already seeing problems. For God's sake, the council of the municipality will adopt a negative resolution. Then he will be able to intervene the voivodship and the whole process will begin again: terms, the voivodship court, anyone will be able to file a complaint, etc. It doesn't solve the problem, it doesn't speed things up. Without the commune's participation... The municipality is the host, the municipality must answer, the municipality must be supported, the municipality must be helped to develop housing. And this bill, as I said, Senator, comes in, so to speak, with shoes in the authority of the local government, which will certainly be misacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u199	Senator, continue? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u200	Yes. I will say that these laws, which are so far, and that there are parts of Poland, were 16, I do not know if there is still so much covered by the development plans... However, in cities these development plans are and large cities are somehow dealing with it. What is it they can't handle? It's with the neighboring municipalities. Cities are expanding, urban agglomerations are expanding and a situation arises that municipalities, and more and more distant from the city centre, are building housing estates. There the land is cheaper and I understand that these settlements will be built there, in the surrounding municipalities. ♪ But who's gonna make it ♪ Just like we have, for example. Wroclaw Special infrastructure, transport? Who's gonna protect big cities from traffic jams that are gonna be the consequence of something like this? Senator Florek, who is from Poznań, also from a big city, knows exactly what the problem is. With us right now we have a huge problem with traffic jams, because just outside the city's borders, in cheaper areas sold by the municipality too many settlements were created. I'm afraid this process is going to grow. Would you mind giving the senator your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u201	I'm gonna go back to those clothes we talked about, and they're so criticized, and so on. In the case of such investments, larger ones, the municipalities had the possibility that they could suspend it, not spend it and draw up a spatial planning plan. Of course we say that when it comes to plans, it always takes a little bit, etc., etc., but the fact is that the municipalities could have made plans. As far as these areas are concerned, which in these cases will be destined... Yeah, farmyards. We remember what we did. In the area of the cities we have landed all the agricultural areas, and therefore in the agricultural areas it will be possible to build these settlements. I'm the only one asking now... Yeah, that was a good question about these municipalities, mergers, etc., those 5%. I was talking about the fact that it's a shame that the municipalities weren't given the 5%. Because the point is, in a new organism, to combine it, to make the way from one commune to another, that would be good. And who's gonna have to do that? The municipality's gonna have to do this. If there's an enclave, some part that's used for housing in one place, another place, third place, etc... Well, that's nice, that's all you have to compose. Who's gonna do it? Who's going to build this infrastructure? It's just a commune. The investor will report this topic in a specific place, one, the other, but there will be no such overall planning. There will be a request from an investor who will prepare the required documents, submit them, and the board will say yes or no. And there will be problems in both cases. There will be no overall concept, what can be done now, planning, etc. Each city plans a development strategy for 20 years ahead. How's it look? Like you said, Senator, about Poznan, it's... I can give you an example...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u202	Mr. Senator, I am so sorry, but I have the impression that you are having a substantive debate, and this is the place in the course of the discussion. [[All right.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a report.]] This is just a reporting time and I ask all your senators to discuss the proceedings of the committee. I'm gonna say this because I'm allowed to say that we want to finish this point. If this continues very much, for technical reasons, due to the fact that we have to prepare the room for tomorrow's summit, we will have to stop considering this point. This would not be very prudent given that there is a prospect of sitting on Saturday. So I would ask you very much to move these discussions to the debate, to a discussion which, of course, will, and now, will be limited to questions concerning the conduct of the committee meeting. Would Senator Komarnicki like to ask you a question in this spirit? [[Mr. Marshal put me in such a position to give up this question. To a large extent, you have explained this matter to the minority rapporteur, Senator Florek.]] Thank you very much. Now Senator Rybicki is asking a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u203	Thank you. Mr Senator, I would like to ask whether during the committee's meeting consideration was given to the negative consequences of such a law and possibly its implementation. Because so far the investment process has been transparent, it has been a transparent process of planning cities, multi-stage actions in the adoption of studies or spatial planning plans. They were transparent and lasted for many months, sometimes, unfortunately, years. Now, as you said, the council of the commune is going to say yes or no. What are some potential corrupt threats? And to what extent are residents excluded from participating in the trial? As far as I know, this bill gives the residents 21 days to comment, and this is actually an express deadline. Please indicate whether these aspects were taken into account during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u204	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u205	Okay, thank you. Mr. Marshal, I am the rapporteur for the minority, but the proposal concerns the rejection of the bill, why this rejection... That's why I'm talking a little bit wider. I'm not talking about what happened at the committee meeting. If I were the committee's rapporteur, I'd say exactly what was at the committee's meeting, but because I'm justifying a motion for rejection, maybe a little more... But I'll do my best, Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna be your speech... it was an appeal. Tell me as much as you want, and we'll listen.]] Of course. Of course, the senator's right, that's what I'm talking about. It leads to chaos, mess, etc. Because right now, it's actually a duality. So far, it's been known what the procedures are, how... And now the investor who comes in with a motion... You can probably suspect he's gonna get it, he's not gonna get it, he's gonna get it, he's gonna fold, he's gonna get it, he's gonna get it, he's gonna get it, he's gonna get it, he's gonna get it, he's gonna get it, he's gonna What kind of action are you gonna do? Yeah, well, you might think that's what's gonna happen. This life will show. But it can be predicted that such situations will take place. Of course, our negative attitude to this issue is generally due to the fact that the power of spatial planning is the task of the municipality, the municipality has control here. And now it's adding something extra to the commune that she's gonna have to face. And how's he gonna face it? Well, she's gonna have the options she's gonna have. The motion is made. If it meets all the formal requirements, and I was talking about the fact that the municipality does not have satisfied housing needs, then the voivode has a simple case in case of a negative decision. He can make a supervisory decision. And such cases will take place in Poland. I am convinced that there are places where building in the center of the apartment +, when there are... Not 100 ha, etc., but it has to be somehow incorporated into the fabric of the city. It can't be that we, oh, on this passage, here, are going to build apartments + and that's it. This must be based on a broader concept of implementation. And so, as I said, we see clearly that there will be negative effects of this law in many directions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u206	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Senator Kopeć. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u207	I'm right in the end... You don't even have to answer that question. [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] On the basis of both my experience in the investment, housing and my experience as an old-timer of the county responsible for issuing permits... [[Professional...]] ...I can say that I have no doubt that all these arguments presented by you, both by Mr Młyńczak and by you, are unfounded and that this law will actually bring more benefit in the future than those concerns you are talking about. However, I would like to ask you a question because of your great knowledge, also in connection with being a voivode. It's about your close heart that I'll let go of the Notebook. Did the investor and the municipality need a special act, or did they build a castle with apartments on an artificial island in the Forest of Notecka on the basis of the 2011 plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u208	If, Mr. Senator, this has been the subject of a discussion, please answer, if not, rather leave it to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u209	Mr. Senator, briefly. I am glad that all our debates in the Senate are being recorded. Because what we're saying here... Now times have changed, it used to be different. Sooner or later, we can get back to what we're saying here. So you have to be very careful what you say. etc. Of course, it wasn't mentioned. There was a building permit, one of the old men gave it up. I don't know the subject, but I saw a snapshot on TV last night that something was being built there...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u210	Then let's not talk about TV, Mr. Senator. It wasn't in the meeting... [[Oh, okay. It wasn't.]] If Senator Kopeć would like, he may still be in the discussion. [[It was PiS-owska TV.]] [[PiS-owska? I don't know.]] I see there are no further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Voice from the O.R.: I think that's where we're gonna end up.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Investment and Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Arthur Soboń is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe if I explain a few things now, this debate will... we will not repeat the same statements. I just want to say that Maybe I'll disappoint Senator Flork. I do not have any leaflet with me, but I see that he has pointed out one fundamental point, namely that the law we are talking about is not a specialist, because it does not have a public purpose. I mean. within this project, we do not regulate property matters, compensations or other such issues that are regulated by classic specifications. This law also fully secures the interest of the municipality as a host in spatial planning. The bill we are talking about today has indeed been widely consulted, and for four months we have consulted 260 stakeholders who have made their comments. These comments were over a thousand. Of course, many of them repeated themselves. Nevertheless, it can be said that we have taken into account both the voices of the public, so we have linked this project much more to spatial planning, we have made it possible for the public to participate much more in the creation of this instrument, we have increased the profile of urban-architectonic concept, etc., etc. I don't want to prolong. As well as from the local government, giving total authority to the local government, in this case the city council, to decide on the spatial development of its local community. However, I would like to clarify that there is no doubt in this regard that already in the original version According to her, the localization decision was to issue a voivodship. It was so that this decision of the voivode was always a decision with the approval of the local government. So there was never a situation in which we wanted to deprive the government of this planning power. Why did we tie these conditions to the study? It is right that the senator pointed out that these conditions in terms of housing needs have been extended to include the basis of the study. This has happened for two main reasons, which have already been mentioned in the discussion. First of all, college is everywhere. It's a document that all the municipalities have today. And spatial planning plans, current plans... And here I'm explaining this difference, these values are 31%. and 16%. So 31% Current development plans. And on the basis of the law that is in force today, from 2003, that's actually 16%. ... Secondly, studies contain what you have called for, namely economic analysis, demographic forecast and all the information that allows the Council to make the right decision. We have only excluded certain areas, in full agreement with the local government, when it comes to this compatibility with the study. What's more, the local government was conditional on support at all... We didn't agree to this in the joint government and local government committee. It was one of the differences, which, by the way, did not leave so much at the end. And the idea was for local governments to limit this law only to these areas, i.e. railway, post-industrial, semi-industrial, post-basic and agricultural areas. As there may be a situation in these areas... Because it may be that the council would like to pursue the purpose of housing, e.g. in the form of a program of living +., but land conversion, e.g. It would take three, five or ten years, because that's what happens in big cities. Every third plan in Poland is a plan that has been adopted for more than 3 years. Therefore, this path is similar, but much shorter. There's no revolution here. I think that's how I said à about what suddenly was... But it's not all of a sudden. Urban standards are described in a precise manner, as well as a derogation from them. 50% One way and the other. The government would like it to be a 100% derogation, but in this situation... We have to say that we have something to root for this localization resolution. These must be rigid standards. And they are rigid in the sense that they are conditional on obtaining a permit for use. In this way, if a residential investment is carried out, the contract of the investor with the local government has very tough rules. The investor bears a gigantic risk because the expectations of the investor are much higher than in the normal one or the other way in which the investor wants to invest. In short, this contract is: you get, you have a faster path This speed is mainly due to the opinion versus the agreement and to the short deadlines which are the authorities and then the Council itself imposed in this law. But instead you have to meet the high urban standards that we have written in the bill and whose visualization will be the urban-architectonic concept that will enter this area into the existing space. This is something you haven't asked an investor to do so far. I want to emphasise one more thing here, which I think is important, so that I say, statistical. I'm going to refer to this statistics here again, because she's unfortunately unsatisfying. One third of the local development plan adopted in Poland by local authorities does not cover even 1 ha of the area. So what we call spatial planning isn't, in fact, a broader view of space development, it's a matter of individual, clipping, a matter that has to be for different reasons. Or self-government has that will. It's done. I no longer want to get into a discussion about which local governments support this bill and which do not support it. The Polish Government Association expressed a positive opinion. Many cities have expressed a positive opinion in this regard. The issue is very important. I care about explaining it. Which Senator Zdrojewska told you about. Well, I am also so convinced that today local governments are abusing this instrument, which is the conditions for construction. For housing investments they were spent in 2018 more than 83 thousand in the whole of Poland, of which several thousand for multi-family buildings. Why? Therefore, of course, there is no development plan, the WZs are not even related to the study. What's on the market today? Let us refer not to this perfect reality, but to the one that surrounds us. The market is that the apartments sell on the trunk. There's a huge demand for apartments. Investors know that. What do investors do? Their only goal, the developers, is to get the highest possible margin, to the highest extent possible to earn on this investment. What can we do to make as much money as possible on investment? Find a location that will allow the margin to be as large as possible. As we're not demanding anything from investors today... I understand this concern about what after five years, if the investor signs a contract with the municipality to deliver the children... Only today no one requires an investor to bring in any five years of children. So, going back to this reality, the situation is that the investor goes beyond the administrative boundaries of the city. - Yes, it is. In order to obtain a higher margin. He knows that these apartments will sell, and all the costs that are, social costs, travel costs, technical infrastructure, communication and social infrastructure are being transferred to the local government. Therefore, we would like to unblock attractive areas in the area of housing, just those that I have spoken about, which are very often in the city centers today, in the immediate vicinity of the settlements, in the immediate proximity of the school, public transport, so that they can be used for residential construction. Hence the whole idea of so-called. a localisation resolution, which assumes some proportions and describes broadly the infrastructure accompanying this resolution. I mean. The proportions are 80:20, but we put there the necessity to locate all the necessary functions within such an estate. So far it was possible to build only one block at a time, only one block, to make money on it. We propose a completely different look, a look taking into account the various tasks that may be carried out under this localization resolution. And if we want to implement, and we want, large investment projects, such as for a few thousand apartments in one location, then we need to ensure an integrated decision-making process on the whole investment. And, of course, I can't help but think of the meanness that, at the end of the day... Maybe I should stop myself. Mr. Marshal, for example. He's looking at me right now, like... [[Yes, please stop.]] Just so I can stop myself. But I have to say this: the castle in the Forest of Notecka, à about this transparent decision-making process today, was created on the spatial planning plans adopted by the municipality in 2011. And this is à about this transparency of decision making today in the field of construction investments in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u212	Thank you, Minister. Stay here for a while, because there might be a question for the Minister. Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u213	I have a question. That's what it's all about. It's about the construction and the fact that there was a plan in the Note. If, now, with this kind of requirement, etc., it's not good, what's the risk of such simplified procedures? Minister, don't charm here. If the procedures are simplified, there will be more pathology, not less. It's completely obvious to me. The second thing I'm gonna... But I'd like to get back to the question. I'd like to ask you, Minister, something like that... 'Cause you set standards for some kind of ease for the residents, and so on. And I'd like to ask you if you're familiar with these solutions... Because this isn't the first government to come up with an apartment program. There were programs for Game, there were all kinds of ideas like that. But there was also an idea like WuWa in Wroclaw. Of course, it's in German times. Which, surprisingly, even though they were cheap ideas, apartments for people who weren't wealthy... However, these apartments have been modern, and they still recognize their architectural beauty today. It was... [[Senator, question.]] Exactly, I'd like to ask you why you didn't set such standards and whether or not. The Ministry did not think about announcing a nationwide competition among architects and, however, define an architectural framework that would also concern ecology, new applications, I don't know... let's say smart houses, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u214	I see you still have Senator Rybicki and Senator Czerwiński. Will anyone else be asking a question? Senator Florek. So why don't we divide it up so that Senator Rybicki adds his question to the senator's questions and ask for a brief answer. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I had the impression that the Government of Law and Justice, through amendments or regulations that we have adopted, concerning the non-distraction of construction, for example. in rural areas, the location of windmills within a distance of no less than any of the buildings... that it is a sign of concern for public space, for landscape, and the natural, and cultural, whatever it may be called. But this bill, according to analysts, can lead to a dispersal of buildings, suburbanisation, city spills. Don't you see such a threat? And second question. Does the fact that there is no mention of forest land in this law mean that the Government of Law and Justice gives up the possibility or no longer considers the possibility of housing on forest land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u216	I'm asking for brief answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Simplifications are rigidly fixed in standards. I would encourage you, firstly, to look at these standards, secondly, at what we require as part of the urban-architectonic concept from the investor in this mode. We're actually... The senator is paying attention to the competitions. As far as such model, standard solutions are concerned, BGKN has prepared, as far as multi-family construction is concerned, and one-family... I encourage you to get acquainted, because these were competitions where several hundred teams took part, combining forces of technology suppliers, scientists and architects. The concept itself was to be implemented in the competition. But here we have collided with the constitutional principle of freedom of business. According to the Government Legislation Centre, imposing a competition formula in the choice of urban and architectural concept would be a restriction of freedom of economic activity. What I'm trying to say is that in the case of Wroclaw we have I'll be happy to tell you about it on a case-by-case basis. Big investment plans for apartments that I'm sure... If I can convince the senator, the senator will support us so that we can make it happen. It is about municipal housing, but also those implemented with investment money, which we want to implement on the land of the State Treasury. As far as system solutions are concerned, I'm sorry, I didn't say that at first. This, as I said at the committee's meeting and I maintain this also at the Senate meeting, we will show these solutions after the local elections, we will put them under public discussion and you will be able to assess the system solutions in terms of construction law and spatial planning. Why at the end of the year? For obvious reasons: I would like them to be merely part of a substantive debate, not the subject of a debate other than a substantive one, and such a temptation would have occurred if we had shown these solutions earlier. Space Care I'm answering to the senator. It's absolutely fundamental. The Prime Minister in his exposé said that beauty would set us free by quoting Scruton. He created an institute of urban planning and architecture, with which we worked in designing this law and with which we also cooperate in designing further laws, including an important law on the profession of architect. So together we are fulfilling this obligation, which is the common space. I think I've answered the intention of preventing suburbanization in this bill. We want to use those areas that haven't been used up to now. No, we have no intention of building in any protected area. This is quite precise in the article. 5 of this law saved But also in forest areas, in this law we do not regulate this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u218	Thank you, Minister. Now I'd like to ask the questions of Senator Czerwinski and Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is the relation between those provisions which are in this law and the planned building code? Are they part of this code, are they outside it, or perhaps the code will not be further developed and they will become the only ones that will apply?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u220	Thank you. And Senator Flork's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's just a short nuisance, Mr. Minister. It was like this: when the judge stole a piece of sausage, you have to replace all the judges or if you couldn't put a monument in the square, you have to change the manager. So, of course, we can give such individual examples of this construction. But, Minister, specifically as far as standards are concerned, this example I gave you, these four floors... Is that possible in standards? Because I understand that in cities up to 100,000. So it's either six or two. If you could explain if there are derogations... 'Cause I think there were derogations and possibilities, but I'm not sure if it's possible that it's threatening to happen to some town. I don't want to set an example anymore... Some town, say Konin, or 70,000 inhabitants... There's no building above six floors. Is there a possibility? And, Minister, one more question. I tabled an amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One to add another point. I meant the economic analysis and the forecast of the financial consequences of the investment. This financial impact forecast is something that has to be in the plan, etc., etc. So an investor could do something like that. Well, at least we'd know... the Council would know what she's in danger of, if it were a resolution. Why do you not want to support this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u222	I answer briefly to Senator Czerwiński: only chronological, that is, this project is now, and the draft code will be a project that we will present at the end of the year. But what I'm trying to say is that I'm not attached to the fact that it's going to be one code that's going to have the ambition to settle all the issues. I'm ready with the team I've set up... And the team is talking about it, and there are no politicians there, only experts. The idea is to make it a system solution, but maybe it will not be a single code, but in the form of systemic changes to key laws in this area, especially building law and spatial planning law. Because the problem with the code is known to you. It would be made up of a substantial part of the transitional provisions. I'd like to avoid this kind of perturbation here. I apologize to Senator Flork for not answering my first question about these four floors. Without going into details, I will say briefly: this is not the only way to obtain permission for the location of the investment. The best is when there's a spatial planning plan, because it's the shortest. I mean, you go straight for a building permit if the investment meets the assumptions of the spatial planning plan. Therefore, So that we don't mislead the public that no more than 100,000 buildings can be built in cities now. This method is defined for specific investments where investors will want to benefit from this mode. Under no circumstances does he abolish the general principles that are in force today. And now: I know that typing any distance or e.g. the number of floors always arouses some emotions, because one can say: why such and not another. Only I want us to understand each other right now. If we are talking about giving local governments the possibility of derogations, and I would not have entered any height of these buildings, it would be impossible to derogate from infinity. I mean, you can't 50% more than infinity, 50% less infinity... Yeah, that's where the four floors are. So, if you consider that this is an investment that's going to make lower-priced construction, it's rational in this sense... And to answer the question of analysis... We really require much more as part of the urban-architectonic concept and the council will be able to require information from the investor, which so far, for example. Under construction conditions, she couldn't see at all. They will now be publicly available, including the visualization of this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u223	Senator and Marshal are still reporting. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'll have the senator now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u224	That's my last question. I would like to ask you to answer the question of what was the support in the Seym for this project. If that's the case, don't be angry about the people I'm gonna ask. But is it true that the ministers of Jak, Kaminski and Sellin, the Deputy Minister of Culture, were against this project? And tell me what the reasons were. If this is the case, it's not the case. The Deputy Minister of Culture, the Ministry, who should be taking care of the spatial economy in some way, has, however, reacted negatively to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u225	One last question. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u226	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said there would be a ban on the construction of protected areas and forests. It's clear. I ask if there will also be a ban on construction in flood areas. I remember 1997 and remember the problem that we created because it was built in floodplains. This was especially true of Wrocław. Is there going to be a ban here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u227	Thank you. I ask the Minister to give brief answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Senator! It is difficult for me to speak in favour of Members who voted in favour of the proposal and for Members who did not vote in favour. If I remember correctly, the majority, 225 Members from various parliamentary clubs, voted in favour of this project. Ask those who voted against. In any case, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, voted in favour of the project. I'm answering your Marshal's question. Yes. Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2: the provisions of paragraph 2. 1 is about the location of these investments It shall apply mutatis mutandis to... Article. 5 speaks of protected areas. In the mouth. 2 there are shelters of nature conservation forms, family gardens and areas of particular flood risk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u229	Thank you, Minister. We've finished a series of questions with a government representative. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Komarnicki signed up for the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to my knowledge and knowledge of self-governments from my district, district 21, which I consulted with was introduced by the side door. It was procedated. I don't know why, because no one's explained it to me to this day. In an extraordinary hurry. I repeat, in an extraordinary hurry. And yet this law is important because it concerns housing policy and spatial planning and the tasks of local governments themselves. However, it was created as a mistake, in a hurry and without proper consultation with local authorities. I'm going back to the point of substance. It should be noted that the bill allows the investment to be located at the investor's request, without the provisions on land-use planning, with poor public consultation and, above all, in violation of the principles of local government spatial policy. These are the words of local governmentmen I've been talking to for a very long time. The Act introduces regulations that burden the municipalities with the activities of developers. It will also cause the spread of urban tissue instead of tightening it up. The Act ignores any analysis of the rational identification of areas for housing and unfortunately does not respect the existing, tediously developed plans. The Act creates the conditions for the quality and reduction of standards in the use of space. The effects of the proposed deregulation can, above all, lead to the destruction of the space, which is our valuable resource. We all know that it should be managed in a very rational manner. The introduction of the Act as it stands may result in a reduction in the role of spatial planning, a reduction in the role of residents in shaping urban space and subjecting planning processes to political will rather than substance. Of course, it is not so, Minister, that this bill contains nothing but bad records. I wouldn't be me if I didn't say there were very positive records and that I could see them. They could be part of the whole system change, even in terms of technical investment parameters Here's your full support. With regard to access to educational, social and recreational services. However, as a whole, this law runs counter to the call for public space to be a public good, not a property of a developer who, according to this law, can actually do with this space what he really likes. Dear Senators, we in this House have examined many laws for 2.5 years and we know very well that such laws require serious treatment from us, require consultation with local authorities and, above all, with stakeholders. I beg you: you cannot prepare such laws in a hurry. Should we vote again in favour of a law that will cause paralysis in the day-to-day functioning of local governments and will have to be updated repeatedly? This can't be right. The seriousness of this building commands us to do such things prudently and substantively. Which is exactly the opposite of the way this law was prepared by the government. Minister, I say: we will meet again and again with this bill. And that is why today I am saying this law, although I am heartily in favour of making as many apartments as possible in this country. The fact that I'm not, I'm not supposed to be accused. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u231	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u232	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Senator has already raised a few points that I also wanted to raise. Therefore, I will limit myself only to certain matters. Public participation. Minister, that's where 21 days are written. We know what the whole process looks like. Of course, I'm sure the whole process of preparation... Because if an investor wants to... and he's gonna have to meet all the conditions that are, if there's an environmental decision, etc., then of course it's all gonna take a year or two. It's just prep. We know what it looks like to prepare an investment. My previous speaker, who talked about it, made such investments, so he knows what it looks like. This process will last for a long time, there's no doubt about it. The realization itself, of course... If this proposal is filed, then there are these statutory terms. Yeah, but among other things. If this is announced on the municipality's website and on the BIP, then there are 21 days for any comments to be made. I don't really know how they'll be dealt with. It's positive, it's negative... It is clearly stated in the zoning plans that, as negative, it is also the council that decides later. I don't know what that would be like here. But, Minister, these cheap apartments, what you said... Because that's the purpose of this bill, and that's what we're going to agree on: that's the thing, that it's mostly land... That's what it was all about, building land. Although we can generally say that in Poland there is no problem as to what is currently in the plans. Because there are some 60 million people in Poland, and there are less than 40 million people in Poland, according to the data we read there. Thus, many of these land could actually be found. But the idea was to make the land cheaper. And they were just gonna make it these cheap apartments. And now the share of this cheaper land, i.e. These mining areas we've been talking about, the cosmic areas, etc... Except, of course, he'll be cheaper, because he'll be in stock, but the realization of construction today... And we know that the investor has to take into account all elements, including. Of course materials, which is important, well, workers, someone who does all of this, realizes it, etc. etc... and that largely determines how much the apartment will cost. So, as a result, what you're saying about this cheap land... Well, this is actually an element that can lower the price a little bit. But I don't think it's caused such a significant reduction in the cost of giving 1 m2 of space. And now you have to see what other solutions are. And here, of course, the big plus is that there are these subsidies. - There's no doubt about it. For rent. Just to make them fair, to people who can't afford it, etc., etc., that's the bonus. Not that we're gonna make some money here on this land, because if we get it, and we know how... National Property Resources was supposed to do all this, collect, trade, sell, finance infrastructure. That was the idea of the program. Well, today I'm sure we've forgotten all about it. So, Minister, I don't see... Besides, we already have the first examples. I think it's Jarocin, as I recall. There was also a decision about the construction, so a little bit was divided... The point was that there was some kind of municipal construction there, so, uh... And what did it turn out to be? I only saw it on TV, I wasn't in Jarocina. So it turns out that the rent in these communal apartments is lower than in those apartments that were given up. Well, there's no miracles here, there's no miracles in the market. The investor has to make, build, hire people and buy materials. That's enough, prices are still rising a little now. There's nothing you can do about it. On the ground, you can save a little bit, but it really doesn't matter much. That's why complicate the situation in this design and so on... You could have looked for other solutions. Now is not the time for me to suggest here other solutions that are possible, but I am saying that it was necessary to look for other solutions, because this law is simply not going to change much. Of course we will hear that somewhere in one city it will happen that 1 building will be built, 2, 3 residential buildings, multifamily buildings etc., etc., but that's not the point. It's not gonna fix the situation. This will not make apartments cheaper, accessible, etc. To sum up, Minister, I do not think, unfortunately, that something will change in the housing market here. We're just gonna talk, talk, say everything's lege artis, that everything's okay, and the effects are gonna be as always, it's gonna work out like always. Well, I'm not talking about football anymore, but we could compare that to that right now, 'cause we've been doing it lately... So that, of course, I can only confirm once again that unfortunately, but this law, as it is presented here, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u233	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to say this: well, let's remember our discussions and doubts about the so-called. Apartments +. They checked out. It's about what Senator Florek just said, I mean. Such situations as this pathetic Jarocin, in a pathetic... Turns out, after all this time, what they might look like... [[We'll thank you for your relationship with Jarocin.]] ...how the effects of this program may look after such a long time. If we listen to the residents, the people who are living there and who have to pay a higher rent, while across the street in municipal apartments, in identical apartments, only that they have to finish it at their own expense, people live for less money, pay less rent and can buy the apartment for their own property, and those don't have their own rights... Of course, somewhere in the contract. They probably had it, but remember that people will always be surprised by it, because... well, shovels, the presence of premieres, the execution, the wind orchestras playing around, that they said how fantastic it would be... Turns out it's not. [[That's what the gierek did.]] People are happy to be better, and it turns out that we're building apartments that are actually gonna be for people... well, they're not gonna improve their status, and they're gonna deepen their sense of poverty and some kind of misfortune in connection with living in these kind of apartments. So it turned out to be a disaster, because of course there is no land at all, etc., it did not succeed. Where the president of the PiS was, he gave something there, he gave some territory, and where he didn't... Well, it turns out it's not that easy. And so we have this bill that we have. And now, quickly, because we're all in a hurry. Let me put it this way: in my opinion, the bill is corrupt. These things in cities and everything that happens from time to time that we hear about... The most corrupt in the municipalities are the issues of construction, developer and such things, spatial planning plans, changes to these plans, because first there is a plan, then it changes and it turns out that... We all know that, we know these problems. But just because we're simplifying these procedures doesn't mean there's going to be less corruption. There's gonna be more of this corruption because you can really do it in 60 days in the commune. It may be that someone will go on vacation, will come back and it will turn out that the municipality has pushed, that next to his house, where he has a garden, a plot, etc., where the birds sing, suddenly there is a large estate of four-story blocks. That's how it's gonna look, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I'm warning you about. Second thing: the aesthetic of this. The apartments are supposed to be cheap and that's why I asked for these ideas. Because something can be cheap, and yet it can be nice, it can be aesthetic. That's what I'd focus on. I think it could even be a chance to build nice, aesthetic, such model cheap houses in Poland. But I don't see it yet, and I highly doubt that this is going to happen. I'm afraid it's going to be that these developers, unfortunately, will be presenting as simple as possible, as ugliest projects and houses like this, will grow into cities. And what one senator was talking about, which is the spilling of cities, which is fatal. In the middle of the city there are expensive land. Even if they belonged to e.g. In turn, to the army or someone else, they should still be expensive. They should improve the aesthetics of cities, but there should be a place for hospitals, public facilities, etc., etc., and not for example. for cheap housing. Therefore, I warn against this too, if this is to apply to large cities, if such areas were to be released somewhere inside. I already told you about the municipalities outside. And it's going to look like these municipalities are going to spend this kind of land, and they're going to be apartments, just like in Jarocin, just in an honest field, it's going to be like that next to the grain chain, and here it's going to be a housing estate. And you don't usually know... Even if we set standards for access to school and so on, we still know that people will be stuck in traffic, there will be no access roads, and it will all be so, and so on on the pot of the commune. So that I'm paying attention to all of this. I will, of course, vote against, because I no longer trust you. After those apartments from. Accommodation, which you have prepared and which have turned out to be such a tragic bubble... I think it's gonna be a bubble, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u235	Senator Radziwiel's voice is yours. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I asked for a vote because I am amazed to hear questions first for a long time, and now the discussion about how important spatial order is is, it is clear How important is the garden, the beautiful view from the window and the singing birds. It's all very important. But there are millions of people in Poland who simply have nowhere to live or are nesting for several families in one room. It's a fact, too, and something needs to be done about it. And we, all of us, are responsible for that. If on 2 scales we have such 2 values, it is quite obvious that when we talk about the need to improve the existence of Poles, millions of Poles, it simply requires action. And what is this action so far? Well, it's these years-long decisions on land-use plans... [[Then fix it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I live near Warsaw and see how houses are created in the fields just there near Warsaw, 20 km from Warsaw. It's not as a result of this bill that it's the expansion of the city. It's happening. It's not something that's gonna happen, it's what's happening. [[It's like this all over the world.]] Of course, all over the world. So the question is, is this reality that surrounds us satisfactory? I just have such an irrefutable impression that there has been a demand here for a few dozen minutes: for it to be as it was. No, it has to be different! These people deserve to have a place to live. And we have to build these apartments, these millions of apartments, that's our job together. And you can't leave it to yourself, because if we leave it to ourselves, these people will just leave Poland. Because they're mostly young people who might and will have a job. 'Cause right now, that's not a problem. They may have many other perspectives, but if they don't have a place to live, they won't be lucky here. It's a problem so hot, so annoying, so severe for a lot of people that you have to do something about it. Does this law simplify certain procedures? Well, it seems that in a way... Of course, but in a way that is safe for spatial order, beauty, and also, which is very important... Because when I look at these houses in the fields today, I see that they're not really accessible, there are really no schools there, there's really nothing there. And this law imposes a duty or some kind of joint responsibility on the local government. And that is also important, because power is not only government, but also government, and you have to share this responsibility somehow. This bill also gives us the chance that... well, it probably won't be the most wanted ones on the housing market, the most expensive ones, but that's not what we're gonna be building as part of this program. But they're still gonna be apartments where... Of course, we're saying that for five years we're gonna have to find a way to get the kids... And then what happens? Well, for God's sake, are these communities going to disappear after five years?! Will those who manage them cease to be responsible for what is happening there? So, ladies and gentlemen, of course, this law needs to be supported. Is she perfect? It probably contains imperfections, like any new solution, and it will have to be improved, but I don't see anything unusual about it if it needs to be improved. But I would really ask that, weighing the various values that we now have on our scales, we see this one and the most important thing: that millions of people, especially young people, need simply to hunger for a normal, normal life in the space where they will have a place to live. And that's what's important. And this bill is doing it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u237	Thank you, Senator. The senator still has the right to the replica, right? [[Yes, sir.]] Five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u238	Dear Senator, I am pleased to hear that you, as a doctor, are also familiar with spatial management. I spent 8 years in the municipality of Wroclaw, working on such cases, later I was still in the voivodeship sejm for the next term of office, so that something about it I know. I don't know what millions of apartments you're talking about. It's so pretty and it's so nice to talk about, but it's such a fairy tale that we could... It's a story about glass houses. Why millions? Please be specific. What millions of apartments? The point is to focus on things here and talk about reality. And it is from this reality that you are now accounted for, from what you promised. You were the Minister of Health at the time, but we heard here promises about apartments from the Living+ program. Well, then I'm gonna ask the Minister to leave and tell me how many of these apartments you've built so far. After all, what we're talking about today is the failure of that program! And I'm telling you, in two or three years' time, we're gonna be talking about the failure of this program because I'm already seeing some symptoms. I'm sorry about the hoarse voice, but... just so you can focus on it. And please trust a little of the people who have really been in the municipalities for years and have been observing these issues, and have been taking care of the municipal economy for years, so that people have housing, and they know how it all looks. And believe me, this is a long process. It's not like you're gonna come and build an apartment, and it's gonna be so fantastic. No, because it doesn't work. These kind of programs just don't work. And they work, for example. The programs... [[Well, you can't...]] No, it's not that you can't. [[Yeah, and if they don't have any money, let them take credit...]] See, for example. In other countries, when people work, they can afford an apartment. Think about it. Please, too... [[If they don't have the money, let them take the credit.]] [[Let's let the senator finish.]] Remember, too, that our programs, programs that were made by the Platform, such as housing loans for people, were very popular. We can talk about specifics here. And in your case, you can only talk about plans and promises that will end in the same way as the Living+ programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u239	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm about to announce adjournment by Friday at 6:00 p.m. I'm asking the secretary to read the messages. One of them is particularly important. Listen to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u240	Dear Senators, I will start with an unusual start, not with information about committee meetings. I would ask you to remove your belongings from your desktops, because tomorrow, the 3rd Summit of Parliaments of Central and Eastern European States will be held in the Senate sitting room. Now for the press release on committee meetings. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act of. Tax Order and some other laws, Senate printing No. 899, will take place today, 11 July 2018 immediately after the announcement of a break in Hall No. 12 in building G. Another announcement. Meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue, Senate printing No 864, will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in room 13 in building G. Last message. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of the requests submitted to the Act establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century will take place today, 11 July 2018, about 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in meeting room 13 in building G. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-11-senat-63-2.u241	Thank you. Time out. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 15 minutes 22]]
