ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call Marta Kubiak and Rafał Weber to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak. I consider the minutes of the 70th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the government draft law amending the law on the extraction of certain fossils, print No. 2913, - First reading of the government draft law amending the Traffic Law and the Penal Code Act, print no. 2878. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending certain laws to introduce simplifications for businesses in tax and economic law, - on the amendment of the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws, - amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, - amending certain laws with a view to strengthening supervision and investor protection in the financial market, - amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, - amending the law on hard coal mining and certain other laws, - financial support for audiovisual production. The reports shall, respectively, be in prints 2921, 2951, 2949, 2863, 2948, 2943 and 2947. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the Central European Institute, - specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019, - amending the Police Act and certain other laws, - amending the act on combating doping in sport, - ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016, - ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994, - ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 2969, 2975, 2962, 2976, 2972, 2970 and 2971. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Energy Law Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The reports shall be in prints 2944 and 2968 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The Senate adopted a resolution containing amendments to the Act on the establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland, print No. 2957. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point on the consideration of this resolution. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following item: Review of the Senate resolution on the Act establishing the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. 227 voted against - 167, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the joint discussion at first reading of the draft legislation on the resting places of Veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's reports on the draft ratification laws contained in prints 2970, 2971 and 2972. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on the ongoing protest of uniformed officers, in particular the scale of the absence of police officers from the work due to the sick leave and the consequences of the situation. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - to State Control together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - h.m. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17, - Public Finance - hour. 6:30. The Parliamentary Group will meet today. Polish Post - at 3 p.m. 19. Parliamentary Panel on Culture and Tradition of Lodz invites you to the exhibition "Thinkful in defence of independence" on the occasion of the 95th anniversary of the Polish Lodz Association in the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence - in the main hall of the Sejm, on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u3	Thank you, Member. Formal applications have been submitted. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform Club. [[It's not the platform. It's the SLD.]] No, no, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am filing a formal request for a break and convening the Senior Convention on the following issue: in Poland we have further outbreaks of... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...infections, measles. It causes great emotions, but it is a real threat to the health of our children. Since we have agreed together to change the date of the Health Committee's meeting on this matter and have moved it to tomorrow, I appeal to the marshal - and I ask this from this point on - to carry out a second reading of this draft law, which abolishes the obligation to immunize children, tomorrow and Friday, when voting, to conclude It's, you know, to vote on this embarrassing project. This is what Poles expect: to reject this project. [[Applause]] As we are accelerating, through a joint decision, the meeting of the Health Committee, I ask the Marshal to do so on Friday to resolve this problem. At the same time, I would like to ask all Members, especially doctors, to reject together, all of us, a project which bears the responsibility of vaccination in children. I appeal to all of you, especially the doctors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u5	Thank you very much. The Commission will take care of this project tomorrow. Let me remind you: this is a civic project. If there's a committee report... [[It will be. Tomorrow.]] If there's a committee report... [[It will be, it will be.]] ...then we'll take care of it. Member Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u6	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I request that the meeting of the Sejm be adjourned and that the Convention of Seniors be convened in order to restore, already established by a long tradition, the timetable for examining the point: government information on current, current, most important situations in the country. Usually such a point was the first item on the second day of the Sejm meeting, exceptionally this week it was moved and will be considered as one of the last, on the last day of the meeting. And what information is expected from the government? Anno from the government is expected information about collapse in law enforcement services, preventive services, i.e. - in short - in the Polish Police. The security of Poles is at stake as a result of your government's actions. Police officers do not come to ordinary interventions, in situations such as family violence, such as road accidents, must be replaced by city guards. You've been preaching, you've been announcing the opening of new precincts. Police stations in many places are unable to function as a result of a protest by officers. In addition, on 11 November there will be celebrations of the 100th anniversary of independence, including dangerous march organized by nationalists in Warsaw and - also organized by racists - illegal march in Wrocław. [[Come on, shut up.]] Who will ensure the safety of the demonstrators, participating in it and protesting... [[Voices from the hall: Sit down!]] [[What's this?]] ...especially protesters against this illegal, planned, already announced march of racists and anti-Semitics in Wroclaw? [[You're a racist.]] It's your responsibility. Minister Brudziński promised to improve the situation of the officers. The result is that we have a deterioration and a situation of the lives of the officers, and a state of security of Poles. This information should be discussed by the Sejm... [[Have two wines.]] Tomorrow morning at the latest. [[Applause]] [[Two wines to drink, racist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u7	Mr Marek Jakubiak, non-member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u8	Ladies and gentlemen! I beg your pardon, sir... What's your name? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[German!]] I'm not a racist. I am Polish, I am a citizen of the Republic of Poland, proud of this fact. Shut up, man. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, just now Gronkiewicz-Waltz, former president of M.S. Warsaw, issued a ban on the Independence March. [[Touchdown, applause]] I would like to say that the capital of Poland is not Mrs Gronkiewicz-Waltz, that Poland is not in the hands of only the Civic Platform, that it is a country that belongs to all Poles. [[Applause]] Freedom of assembly, freedom of expression These are the basic features of democracy. Meanwhile, robbers, you're wasting our country in front of the whole world. [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] We are Poles in the Republic of Poland. You will see that it is you who will add this spark to the concerns in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u9	Member Dominik Tarczyński. Just, ladies and gentlemen, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u10	Mr. Marshal, I have to... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]] Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u11	Mr... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the formal proposals concern the agenda and make such proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u12	As during the meeting, during the session of the Sejm now, this idiot insulted Poles, speaking of them... [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] ...that they're racist... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desks.]] Poles, proud Poles who will march, are neither racists nor fascists. And that idiot from two wines at a German airport [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He insulted the Poles... [[Marshal, why aren't you responding?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u13	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u14	And I'm asking, Mr. Marshal, to punish this idiot because he has no right to insult 60 or 100, or... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u15	Mr President, you are above the level of... [[Scandal!]] ...to behave decently in the Seym. Please... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Kara!]] [[This is an outrage!]] [[The voice from the room: But the warning...]] Thank you very much. [[Get off the podium.]] Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this is not the way to refer to other Members. [[Voice from the Chamber: Seriousity of the Sejm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a formal request to interrupt the agenda because the first request for interruption was not for the agenda. There's a motion to adjourn... [[Sit down, Tarczynski.]] ...and I will put this proposal to the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] I will no longer accept other formal proposals. I shall put to the vote a request that the sitting be adjourned. If you are in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. The vote was 143, against - 247, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Act establishing the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland (Print No. 2957). Let me remind you that the Senate has tabled three amendments to the bill. Members have come to the debate. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I'm not gonna accept any questions. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, as the first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Brief summary. The bill enters the Sejm on 22 October. First reading at the Sejm meeting - 23 October. The second reading was immediately started. On the same day, the third reading took place a few moments later. The bill was addressed to the Senate of the Republic of Poland, and President Andrzej Duda took a pen into his hand and, without knowing the shape of the bill, eagerly awaits to submit his autograph. During the work of the PiS Sejm, he proposed three amendments to the Act, which in its original form had four articles. And as a result, the Senate was working on a law that was changed in the Sejm in 75%. The Senate discussed five articles, made three amendments. Moreover, there is a lottery, who works, who is free, and in the Trade Reduction Act there is no date 12 November. Dear Messengers! Honourable Members! Have you read the justification for these amendments? It's a carousel of laughter. These amendments have nothing to do with the relevant legislation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I stress that in 4 days we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Five days from now, it's gonna be a day off from work, and the bill's still in the Sejm. This bill is legal. The procedure is outrageous. The bill divides, sorts and charges. This is a sign of disrespect for Poles and for the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Let me remind you that some time ago, a proxy was appointed for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence and over PLN 200 million were secured for this purpose. And my question: Who of the leaders of the countries will attend this very important ceremony for Poland? Let us note that in other years the presidents participated: Ukraine, Georgia and Lithuania, and on the 25th anniversary of June 1989. Poland was visited by the President of the United States Barack Obama. And our reality. Since 2015, he has been in charge of the PiS. It is 2018, the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, the 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're losing position in the international arena.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u17	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u18	The European Commission calls us to order and no one from... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u20	High Izbo! We are the citizens' movement, which is why we don't like buying the Holy of Independence, its 100th anniversary. You've all been doing a political circus here on the basis of this anniversary for over a year now. You are at war, and you are moving this war to the streets of Poland. The result is radicalisation of attitudes and polarisation of Poles' views on Independence Day. If you really thought that this holiday should bring us, Poles, together, you would mark it with a worthy attitude. There were many opportunities for this, for example. On October 30th, at the Grand Theatre, a concert in honor of the Independent. Who was there? There was no one from the opposition bench, from government benches or from Law and Justice, and not many. And this was an opportunity to show that we are all Poles and this anniversary is very important to us. It wasn't... You treat Poland as a piece of dress described by Sienkiewicz, which you pick each other out to have bigger spoils. That's not right. Poland, Polish independence deserves a better experience and its celebration. The National Celebration Act itself is still more troubling It's more than Christmas. I paid attention to this at first reading. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, a little culture, because if you just had one. Welcome to those who fought for Poland, the Independent in 1918 and earlier, you would now listen to Members' speeches and not settle private interests, as you do. Finally, I wanted to congratulate my fellow Wojtkowa Bakun, who has taken away [[Applause]] Think about it, the royal city, and it will really lead there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizens' order, as it was in 1918. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u21	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What the PiS offers us on the 100th anniversary of independence is one big embarrassment. You've known for three years that we're going to celebrate this holiday. What do you suggest? You're suggesting... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] ...to sing the hymn together at hours. 12, you propose slides blown for children, you propose march organized by nationalists - it is not yet known if it will take place. You've set up a special committee, 240 million, 80 million spent. I said, "Where's the money?" What's the money spent on? You wanted to lead to a situation where no celebration connected with this really important anniversary would overshadow the tenth unveiling of the monument of Lech Kaczyński. That was your intention. That was your intention. What do you suggest? A bill that's the biggest wick that comes out of this room. You can't even tell who's gonna work and who's not. This bill will cost Polish taxpayers 6.5 billion PLN. This is the price of one day off in the budget. Congratulations on the release of PLN 6.5 billion for your fanaberia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u23	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński, asks for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Meysztowicz! So nice, you've been talking culturally to me about monuments lately. You're coming out here... [[Speech outside the microphone, joy in the hall]] ...to the polish seym and for such low political purposes you are trying to argue Poles in connection with the beautiful celebration of 100 years of regaining independence. [[Applause]] [[But November 12th isn't Christmas.]] Recovering independence, you, ladies and gentlemen, because very often here, also today, from this stand fell: the 100th anniversary of Polish independence. We regained this independence 100 years ago, as an independent state we are on the map of the world much longer. I just wanted to tell you that this 240 million is much less money, comparable to the scale of our country than what all the other countries spend, which also 100 years ago regained independence or arose. [[Applause]] The foreign component itself is spent 64 million for 5 years, and this is 400 events in just this year - 400 events in all the capitals of the world. It is a great work of Polish people of culture. And about... It is the tour of the Sinfonia Varsovia orchestra with Krzysztof Penderecki, multi-day, in China and Korea. It is the exhibition of Kobro and Strzemiński at Centre Pompidou in Paris. It is an exhibition of Polish design in many capitals of Europe. I could name and exchange you here. This is a project of 100 out of 100 and 100 Polish works of great Polish composers, from 1918 to 2018, released on 37 CDs and played, these tracks will be played on 22 stages on 11 November. So in addition to these slides for children there will be 22 concerts with Polish music on 22 scenes of the world, from Melbourne to New York. [[And for the Poles?]] And please do not insult Polish artists and people who are working on this team to show Poland to the whole world. [[Applause]] This is just a small piece of what we do on the 100th anniversary of regaining Polish independence. Don't be nervous, don't change your legs. [[But I'm not really nervous...]] All this information is also available on the Internet, sir. Your interpellation on this is, I must say, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, it's ridiculous, because all the information... [[Voice from the hall: You're funny.]] ...which you're asking for are available and open to the public for a long time. The whole program is very well prepared. Those days you're talking about, a few days of major events, this is a big Community concert, a joyous concert, you're also invited to this concert at the National Stadium of the 10th, just before eleven o'clock, just to get ready. One of the artists who will take part in this concert, is sitting in our hall, is a member of our parliamentary community, because very different artists will perform there. [[Applause]] It will be a review through Polish history, also through Polish song and song, because there will be songs and patriotic, and entertainment, and community. A great, wonderful concert organized for all of us. And you're talking about children's slides. They will also be slides for children, because these children, as you know, are part of our national community and they also have the right to celebrate nicely, not only patriotically, but also entertainingly this day. On 11 November, apart from many other events and, I hope, a worthy Community march, to which we will all go to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining our independence, [[Applause]] there will also be a whole-day festival in Kraków Przedmieście, from the Presidential Palace to KPRM, for all people, with families, we invite everyone. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I also invite the Warsaw people and not only that they enjoy this holiday and spend it joyfully together. In the evening at the Grand Theatre there will be a concert ending the project 100 out of 100 - Penderecki, Górecki, the largest Polish composers. And on November 12th - I am just listing a few such events to tell you that someone has been working on this for a very long time, many creators, many organizers, cultural managers - on November 12th at hours. 20 minutes will be the premiere of a film that has not yet been in Poland, there was no such thing. It will be a 1.5-hour documentary, assembled from the generally unknown archival materials found around the world, presented in a reconstructed, colored form, which will present years of building the Polish state, from 1914 to 1923, unknown things: a parade in Kiev, but also Haller's army in various places. Thousands of very interesting things will be shown there. I invite everyone cordially to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining Polish independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u25	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I'm not allowing you to correct it because you weren't quoted. Mr Adam Szłapka has the floor. 52 seconds - time for the club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the applicants of this law: Have you ever dealt with offices, with institutions, e.g. Courts? If you didn't have courtrooms, you would, it's still ahead of you, I guarantee it. But look at the situation you've led to. [[We're so scared.]] It's November 7th, Wednesday. Earlier today - perhaps today, perhaps tomorrow - President Andrzej Duda will sign this bill and it will be announced at the earliest tomorrow. And only then will there be a legal basis e.g. for the courts, i.e. on Friday, to send letters of recommendation to the persons in whose case the hearings scheduled for 12 November were cancelled. So 24 hours - the registered letter goes on a working day. So the people in whom the trial was cancelled under this law will find out on Tuesday. Come on, bravo, bravo! See what you've led to? You organized a country that is bound by a rope to a snob, but you also introduced Mr. Shieldinski to the Sejm for which you were ashamed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u27	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, PSL-UED, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u28	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Without even bitter satisfaction, I will remind you of the words which my club colleague or our club colleague, Prof. Stefan Niesiołowski, said in December 2016, which he proposed, that the great, brought here by the President of the Republic of Poland law on national celebrations of the day of independence should be rejected at first reading, because it was already promised that it would not be dignified, and it would be at least unserious. And it really isn't serious. Instead of worthy, proud, as you said, Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, celebrating the 100th anniversary of independence - 100 years, once every 100 years such an anniversary happens, the next one will be 100 years from now, I remind you - it is that none of the leaders of European or non-European countries are elected to this event. You are lucky that the President of the European Council is Donald Tusk and that he will be in Poland on this day, [[Applause]] he will lay flowers under the statue of Józef Piłsudski, lay flowers on behalf of the European Union in front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and then take part in a truly joyful march in Łódź. Because Prime Minister Gliński was talking about a march that would be joyful here in Warsaw. This is the march that the PIS, as Marshal Mazurek has announced, is not going, and this is the march that the President is not going to. If this is supposed to be a march, it's really what you did, it's a blown castle in front of the Presidential Palace in Kraków Przedmieście. And finally, the second word that is associated with this holiday is chaos - chaos, which best illustrates this law on the state feast on November 12th. You wanted to buy the kindness of Poles to wash off this blazer, which is the celebration of the 100th anniversary of independence, by pushing for an extra day off. If you cared about what the Poles cared about, you would also not reject the project submitted last year by your colleagues from PSL on the adoption of a four-hour working day on Christmas Eve. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's supposed to be a day off, not November 12th, forced... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u29	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the costs of honouring Polish independence. I would like to remind you that during your term of office, the Polish Presidency in the European Union cost PLN 500 million, among others. was spent money on such wooden farts that were supposed to spin, [[Applause]] But so far it's not known why they were produced. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, just now Mrs Gronkiewicz-Waltz, standing by Mrs Gawor, yes, that is, you, who were a lieutenant of the MMA, a common communist simply, to be fair, banned the Independence March in Warsaw. And you like it. [[Fascists.]] Not fascists, not fascists. Extreme groups of provocators need to be eliminated as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Whereas tens of thousands of Polish patriots go there. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo, Adam!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, you want to see that on November 11th there is a big riot in Warsaw, because then you will show those who Tusk imposes navy in Brussels that Poland is a dictatorship and it is necessary to make order with Poland, and sanctions must be imposed on Poland. [[Applause]] That's exactly what you're talking about. [[Tusk's not your friend.]] If you want everyone in Poland to have the right to assembly, for example, to go. Equality parades, then also tell your friend to allow the Independence March, because Poles want to worship as they please, not as you want. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u31	Mr Richard Petru, Circle of Liberal and Social Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The best form of honoring 100 years of independence will be... [[Voice from the room: Go to Madeira.]] ...100 bans on the march of nationalists in 100 cities of Poland. That way we can celebrate. And now for November 12th. You've been in charge for three years, and you've only now realized that November 11th is Sunday? [[Game in the O.R.]] Who? Minister Gliński? Ladies and gentlemen, as much chaos and mess as this bill is gonna put in place, not much law has passed. Such a bill can only be introduced by those like Mr. Chairman, who have never... worked on a state service their whole life. Nearly an adult's life in the Seym. After all, people who don't know what planning means, shopping... Ladies and gentlemen, people have specific deadlines. Trade workers don't know today, November 7th, if they're going to go to work. You don't know how to vote either, because you don't know how the Senate voted. Chaos in the economy - this shows how much you ignore entrepreneurial people, people who work hard every day, for whom every 200 PLN is important, and so much the average Pole loses because of your party. You show that most of you have never done a real, real job in your lives. Because people have to work... [[Unlike you.]] Mr Macierewicz, you have spent your entire life in the state, either in the opposition or in the state. Have you ever worked hard in the private sector to earn 500 PLN? Ever? No, never. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows where you really have your president, shows... [[Who would you be if it wasn't for Balcerowicz?]] ...what's his place in the food chain. At the end. Ladies and gentlemen, you're giving him two days to sign the bill. I have a question for Minister Gliński about the list of companies to which PLN 240 million have been entered. I'd like to get that list of companies, private and state-owned companies that you ran through. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u33	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first information is that next Sunday at 3 p.m. 14th of Dmowski's roundabout will begin the great, solemn March of Independence [[Applause]] on the 100th anniversary of independence under the motto "God," honor, homeland. Exactly so, in spite of the murderous temptations of Euroliberts in Poland, in which unfortunately it takes 100 years after regaining independence to fight again for fundamental civil rights, [[Applause]] Because what Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz did today is an assassination. for fundamental civil rights, this is liberal murder, [[Applause]] who says that if you are not in favour of our pro-EU, rainbow, left-liberal group, we will deprive you of even the most fundamental rights. And this is a scandal, this is a scandal on the 100th anniversary of independence. [[Applause]] [[We'll take the fascists away.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every year, the national environments organize the Independence March. Every year, also this year, this is the biggest celebration of this kind. Every year it is a Community march, because it is based on values which have been guiding Poland and Poles for 1000 years. This is a march to which we invite all who sign the slogan of the sovereign Polish state, based on the national identity, based on the Christian tradition of our nation. These are common values, that is the slogan of God, honor, homeland. And it's very good that it's on passports. And it is very good that hundreds of thousands of Poles next Sunday regardless of those decisions which are made today by irresponsible glazers m.st. Warsaw, will march and it will be a sea of white and red flags. [[Applause]] That's the way it's gonna be, despite the fact that today's various agents are against it. [[You're wearing ski masks?]] [[Voice from the hall: Fascist...]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fortunately, these voices and this discrediting step of decision-makers of Warsaw, Wrocław and the formations behind them will not demobilise Poles, because we know today that tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people are going to Warsaw, from national communities, through Catholic, patriotic, to Solidarity. Yeah, we're gonna be together, dignifiedly manifesting next Sunday, no matter what you do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u35	The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! However, I would very much ask you to at least try to rise a little above these emotions, because these emotions should be really positive. We really once every 100 years have the opportunity to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. [[You've ruined everything.]] [[Voice from the room: How can you not...]] You don't know what I'm trying to say yet, and you're screaming. I wanted to address Mr Protasiewicz for the second time, but I would ask you not to answer me again. All I care about is that you said for the second time that we're dealing with a 100-year course of independence. No, we regain independence, Poland has been independent for 1000 years. [[Applause]] Mr Petru asked me about the companies. I understand you're making some strange suggestions. I wanted to tell you that a lot of companies have been involved in co-financing events... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...because in fact this 240 million is not enough to organize a worthy celebration. Many economic operators have supported us in organising these celebrations. Very good. On the other hand, the money we are talking about has largely been allocated to the citizens' pillar, the road of the Civic Platform. Around 1/3 are the money that has been allocated in various competitions in transparent procedures for NGOs and local cultural institutions, which have volunteered to organise various bottom-up celebrations of 100 years of regaining independence, both abroad, with foreign partners and with us in our homeland. Two such competitions have already been decided and in many local communities of the state and state, and such celebrations are being held thanks to the fact that we have mobilised some budget money to support this kind of action. The purpose of this programme and the purpose of the celebration, which should guide us all, is to rebuild the Polish community. Think about it: rebuilding the Polish community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u37	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote... [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] Here you go, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: What are you gonna eat?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u38	Formal conclusion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll make a formal request. Namely, I would ask for a short break and a convent of the Senior Convention, because, however, that Mr Petru insults the President of the Republic here, this is not a matter that can be put on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What about Mr. Shieldinski?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u39	I understand this is a request on behalf of the club. I'm declaring a recess and calling the Senior Convention. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In a dark living room for five minutes. [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 57 hrs. 15 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. [[Formal conclusion. May I?]] Mr President, please take your seat. I shall inform your fellow Members... [[I wanted... like Mr. Kaczyński.]] Mr President, I draw your attention, please do not disturb me. Please don't disturb me in the proceedings. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] I inform you that the matter has been discussed at the Senior Convention, and I declare what decision We've taken it. Both Mr Ryszard Petru and Mr Dominik Tarczyński violated the importance of the House. Therefore, on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that they have violated the importance of the House by their conduct. [[Voice from the room: Kara. Kara.]] The matter will be dealt with by the Sejm Bureau following an analysis of the transcripts from the statements made by Mr Petru and Mr Tarczyński. Let's move on to the vote. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate amendment by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment by an absolute majority, it shall be deemed adopted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to delete the preamble. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is against the 1st Senate amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 387 Members voted. The absolute majority is 194. 134 voted against - 239, 14 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. In the second amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes that the day of 12 November 2018 be the National Holy on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. The absolute majority is 195. 151 voted against - 229, 8 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to delete the article. 3 providing that on 12 November 2018, the rules on restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays shall not apply. We're voting. Who among you is against the third Senate amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. 152 votes against - 231, 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law (prints No. 2862 and 2921). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 07 hours 15 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report from the committees, in prints 2862 and 2921. You're welcome, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm and quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation on the government draft law amending certain laws to simplify business in tax and economic law, print No 2862. Seym at 69. meeting on 3 October pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation for consideration. The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation, after considering it at its meeting on 22 October, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Mr Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law, in print Nos 2862 and 2921. This is another package of changes after 100 changes for companies and after the constitution for business, whose main goal is to simplify and facilitate business activity in Poland. The project envisages introducing regulations aimed at reducing administrative burdens on entrepreneurs. The project also clarifies some of the interpretation doubts revealed in relation to the pursuit of business activities and introduces tax exemptions for entrepreneurs. The objectives of the project are achieved through changes in two areas: in the area of tax law and in the area of economic law broadly understood as the whole standard governing economic issues. The scope of changes in tax law assumes inter alia.: standardization of models of all forms in the field of local taxes, increase of income threshold to obtain the status of a small taxpayer from 1 1,2 million to 2 million euro, introducing the possibility to include in the cost of obtaining income the value of the work of the taxpayer's spouse, introducing the possibility of a one-off settlement of the tax loss up to 5 million EUR, a number of changes in the Accounting Act, among others. shortening the period of compulsory storage of approved financial statements from permanent storage up to 5 years, exemption from tax paid to the insurer of the amounts of compensation for the restoration of the damaged property - this exemption will apply to all fixed assets except for a passenger car. On the other hand, changes in the area of economic law include:: unambiguous determination of the legal effects of activities performed by an unauthorized person to represent the company, which increases the safety of economic turnover, enabling shareholders to adopt resolutions in writing outside the shareholders' meeting, this is called the so-called. circulation mode. Changes in the Labour Code include: increase the ability of an employer with up to 50 employees to perform health and safety at work in the risk category higher than the third. There are restrictions on the obligation to provide periodic health and safety training for workers employed in the lowest accident rates and performing work in such environments as are least harmful to health, i.e. about 5.6 million administrative and office workers. It is also proposed to amend a number of laws on the abolition of the obligation to use a registered stamp or a company stamp as a formal requirement for documents produced by traders, and many other facilities, in total about 50. The law and justice support those amendments which have been tabled and accepted by the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation. At the same time, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I propose one amendment to this law. It is estimated that in the next 10 years about PLN 4 billion will be in the pocket of entrepreneurs. The whole of the bill is very clear and clear. The law is located on 44 pages, where 50 articles are included, as is the case with the constitution for business. An entrepreneur who wants to read these regulations can do so himself, not necessarily by using the staff of lawyers. High Izbo! In conclusion, these are changes that go in a very good direction, like those that have already been adopted and have had tangible effects. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law in print No 2862 and 2921. At the same time, I make an amendment to this bill on behalf of the club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u44	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! As the name suggests, the bill aims at simplifying businesses in tax and economic law. That's 50 simplifications in 30 laws contained in one piece of legislation. In my opinion, many of the amendments contained in this law should be addressed by the relevant committees, which were lacking in the procedure of this important law. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, this law sets itself the objective of abandoning legislation that limits the development of entrepreneurship, creates unnecessary bureaucratic burdens and hinders the daily work of entrepreneurs. And yet, over three years of government, the PiS is an unstable, inconsistent and unpredictable law, which means that a few good solutions will not be of the utmost importance to entrepreneurs. The most important thing is trust, because it is the basis for security. Entrepreneurs are losing confidence and thus a sense of security and stability. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The issues of economic freedom and facilitation should be examined in all the laws that are in place in this House. The same should be true for all aspects of deregulation and regulation, because one resort prepares deregulation, and other resorts regulate business activity, restrict it, determine when entrepreneurs are to run it, who, in which days. They say it's not allowed on Sundays, it's not allowed on other days. Ladies and gentlemen! The law should be established fairly and each provision should be analysed in terms of impact. On the one hand, the PiS gives the impression that it wants to make life easier for entrepreneurs, I repeat: it gives an impression, and on the other hand - it foundations a drastic day for entrepreneurs and employers to be free from work, which destroys all plans, entails costs, adds tasks and really makes life difficult, and workers, Poles are divided into better and worse. Some are to be free, others are not, also to be picked up at a different time... These actions are consistent. Ladies and gentlemen, this is propaganda and nothing more. Ladies and gentlemen! The confusion and effects that entrepreneurs will have as a result of the Law introducing a day off from work, on 12 November, will not be eliminated by the introduction of this Act on simplification for entrepreneurs. Moreover, no one will even notice these simplifications, because entrepreneurs focus on how to make up for the anticipated losses of November 12th, and in general where to get people to work and what this new tribute and increase in costs will be given to them by the PiS. Ladies and gentlemen! This law does not introduce significant simplifications for businesses in tax or economic law. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club amends and requests their support. Some amendments to this Act create difficulties for entrepreneurs and require discussion in the relevant committees. The amendments aim at clarifying the proposed changes and analysing their impact by the relevant committees. Let me repeat: the law should be sound and every provision should be analysed in terms of its effects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you for the correction. Here you go, Mr. Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u46	Five minutes, not 15 minutes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 regarding printing no.2862, i.e. the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to assess negatively the project that aims and actually introduces simplifications for entrepreneurs. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to focus on two issues related to conducting business activity in Poland, because on the one hand you say: a constitution for business, facilitation, simplification. Of course, it's beautifully sounding passwords. On the other hand, let's look at the practice of the functioning of entrepreneurs in Poland. I will use a very concrete example of a law that we have already accepted as a Sejm. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago I received a question, whether on November 12th, then probably, on a day off from work, non-public health care establishments, which provide services also under contract with the NFZ, are to work or not to work. Perhaps the employees of these establishments have e.g. do not work with one hand, in this private area have free work, and in the field of services provided to the public should they work? I then answered as a Member asked by the entrepreneur's representative that I don't know, I just don't know. And this is unfortunately a sad picture of these simplifications, and really the chaos that you are introducing. Ladies and gentlemen, that was two weeks ago. Today, on 7 November, the Senate amendments have finally been worked, and this is the 12th of November to be a day off from work. By God, dear country, are these the conditions for doing business in Poland, since you are able to give such a gift to entrepreneurs, that 4 or 5 days before a given day you recognize that it will be a day off from work? Can we talk about legal certainty? I am already overlooking the absolutely scandalous and unworthy behaviour of the President, who, according to the Constitution, has 21 days to sign or not to sign a bill addressed to him under the laws. You put the President against the wall because you're actually giving him one day, maybe two days to sign the bill, not 21 days, in accordance with the law. It's not very elegant, ladies and gentlemen. So that I allow myself all these remarks to become, perhaps, some voice of reason, appeal. Because, Minister, you're doing a lot of good work. We know each other not from now on, and I know that you are a very substantive person, focused on work, but I want you to be aware of this, also the management of the ministry, and therefore also so that the Polish government is aware that when there is irresponsible attitude towards entrepreneurs, it is even the best intentions, the most interesting legal solutions, and in this project there are many interesting legal solutions... It's all gonna burn in the pan. Entrepreneurs will not focus on the fact that they have some simplifications in tax settlements, but will fear that they will have some new day off, that you will come up with some new idea that might make their lives difficult. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from this point of view, if we are talking about simplifications in doing business in Poland, I would like to appeal, first of all, that you do not complicate the lives of entrepreneurs. Let me add one more thing about taxes. You are proposing an introduction, e.g. a uniform tax form. That's a very good solution. We at one time, as Kukiz.15, also proposed to simplify as much as possible the number of boxes, the nonsense number of boxes, I apologize, but it has to be said straight, because if there are 150, 200 or more in the tax settlement of these boxes, then how to not get lost in it. This is a good solution, but perhaps it is worth considering, ladies and gentlemen, I am raising this once again, about eliminating these taxes, because the cost of downloading them is close to those measures that are taken from taxpayers' pockets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It just doesn't pay off and it's irrational. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u48	Dear Marshal! Minister! Dear Members! High Izbo! There's a medical principle: first of all, don't hurt. Of course, in the context of this law it can be said that these solutions are good, we will support them. I thank the Minister for his very hard work, because a few dozen changes that go in the right direction, gathered in one document, such an economics of the Sejm's work, I think... This is going the right way, even though there are actually a number of committees involved. Of course, I very much regret that this was not done by the committee responsible, the economy. On the other hand, it is important to return to the fact that my colleague, Mr Grabowski, and Mrs Frydry, have taken up the subject of the instability of the system. I would like to ask my dear colleague Peter Pyzik from Gliwice a question from the speaker: How many Gliwice companies e.g. By November 12th, free of charge, he'll wait longer for the dues, because the business court is gonna have a hearing? This is the instability of the law. They're waiting for their own money. Don't smile, sir, because this is a very important issue. Yeah, they're waiting for their debts to be recovered, and they're gonna have to wait longer for them. It's possible that some of the companies, I hope it doesn't happen, will fall by not receiving those debts. But there is, for example. legal instability in the case of the state budget itself. After all, the state budget is also getting its money back, the money it owes him, and these things are going to fall down again. On the one hand, you are really making good changes in the context of this law - and we will, as I mentioned earlier, support them - but on the other hand you are making such a terrible mess, you are making some incredible turbulence that no entrepreneur will feel safe, and it is precisely about the sense of security in the case of entrepreneurs that they know what taxes will be paid so that they know how they can account for these things over the coming years. Please note that you are introducing e.g. car rule, car leasing. On the one hand, you give more relief, more opportunities, and on the other hand you take away the possibility of leasing more expensive cars than 150 thousand. zł. The government crashes in a 2 million-dollar limo. Unfortunately, it's not just a metaphor, because sometimes these accidents happen. Therefore, honourable Members of the government majority, consider what you are adopting. You pass one good bill, but you make some bad ones. Just give me the good ones. That's what we should be working on. I really think there's going to be some stability, or we're going to go towards really deep reforms. Here, the couple will whistle a little bit. As I mentioned earlier, of course this is going in the right direction in this area, but the whole other range is very bad. I'd like to, for example. Mr. Piotr tried to answer that question as my colleague in the district. Maybe he'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no way to separate these two laws, which one by one are being processed here. I can honestly say that I lacked the voice of reason on the part of the government, because the Minister knows perfectly well what stupidity is about this bill that we just adopted. The calculations are clear. A day off from work costs PLN 6.5 billion, while GDP will be reduced. I do not require you to go out like Mr Tarczyński and say that one of the Members is an idiot because he has come up with something like this. I do not require this, but I think that if you want to be credible as a government that really cares about business interests, about money in the Polish budget, you should react to such unwise things. You know very well that this law violates labour law, various other regulations, because it is in the legislation that the employee, in terms of whether he will have a day off or a working day, must be notified five days in advance. It's not taken into account at all. This law is incompatible with, for example, that law which we have criticised, namely the Act on the restriction of trade on Sunday, because there is a clear reference to the Act of 1951, where the catalogue of holidays is included. Plus, this bill is appealing. This bill, which we just adopted, is completely contrary to that. As I hear the President's spokesperson who says that the application of this law on the 12th free will depend on the goodwill of the entrepreneurs, and speaks of common sense... Minister, please. Indeed, we are working together on a number of laws that come out of the government, which are reasonable, which can sometimes be improved, and we work together. Why does the government keep quiet when such stupid things show up here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u51	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill provides for the departure from health and safety training in the case of a group of workers with the lowest number of accidents at work. The proposed changes are detrimental to employees because they will not have this training. In the event of an accident, will the insurance company and the insurance company not refuse to pay compensation? Wouldn't that be the basis for the employees to claim their claims before the courts? Employees will claim compensation from employers, which is where we put them in jeopardy. Doesn't the project break art? 66 Constitution establishing that everyone has the right to safe and hygienic working conditions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! While expressing appreciation for the government, the first in many years that has affected the life of citizens in implementing procedural simplifications, which reduces the tax burden, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which restores, improving and actually digitising the administration, the belief that our country is worthy of respect also due to the daily functioning of its institutions, I would like to ask a question. This is a kind of appeal. Are not the successes of previous deregulations - and I sincerely hope, also the success of the one we are debating - a signal that it is time for more bold moves? Isn't it time to think about radically simplifying the tax system? I have a deep conviction that it can be made much simpler, more efficient, more just and simply cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A short question, specific, because it is said that the time frame for the storage of financial statements, which is set at 5 years, is reduced or actually set at all. All right, and I'll ask you a bold question, Minister, how do you feel about that? Does the government have specific plans? Since we have been talking about this recently, we have actually discussed legislation that favours the so-called. e-invoices. So why don't we just go a step further and do it, maybe go towards the e-state, for example. financial statements that are publicly available via electronic means or the Internet... To put it simply: to go in this direction, to move away from paper, from cutting out forests, to printing tons of unnecessary documents. When, Minister, do you think it will be possible to introduce a real, real and effective e-state in Poland, so that there is a circulation of e-documents [[♪ The bell ♪]] And walk away from the paper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u57	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u58	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask here - the question taken from life - is it true that in Parliament, here in the High House, we are to create a law that is intended to serve Poles, entrepreneurs, so that we can live better, prosperous. From what we've decided today... We're talking about this day off. I just got off the phone. People who work in commerce also ask whether they are free to work or not. It's not a good law, it's what we make. We give one a day off, the other one a day - no. Trade workers are outraged that they have to work, and those who work on an hourly wage agreement are now worried about where they're gonna pay for housing fees, media fees, because they know they're gonna lose on it. Every hour is money in their pockets. Now we take away this opportunity to earn money and we don't serve, and we don't give them what we give them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're supposed to make things better, but we're creating what's worse. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u59	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Minister Mariusz Haladyj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I answer these few questions, maybe I can thank you first for the good word about the project itself. I also understand this unsatisfiedness. I mean, here's what I'm going to say: our ministry isn't good enough either - otherwise we wouldn't be preparing these next projects. This, on the other hand, is also a method of simplification. I think there's no other way than to go step by step. It is impossible to say, to submit here this - or to bring a tirem of such a great change of law - with one piece of legislation. So also this action, whether the Law of Entrepreneurs, or succession, or K.P.A., which we changed, is the response to the signals we received from - I will say so colloquially - users of the law, very concrete. And we are trying to respond to these specific demands in these laws. Whether they are quite brave or not quite brave, then of course there is always a very subjective assessment, because even here in these questions we have one example. Mr Ruszczyk felt that the change in health and safety is too far-reaching. So it will always be such a dilemma, and this is obviously also not the end of the ministry's work on such projects, and we also keep up-to-date, bearing in mind these demands of entrepreneurs, we change that. And I'm gonna say one more thing, like... Here we often talk at the level of the general public, that it should be different, more, deeper, etc., while what the entrepreneurs also emphasized to us is not only important that, so to speak, at some metalevel, it is to think about changes, I don't know, foundations somewhere in the law, in some area. It's also about rejecting, so to speak, such rocks, and sometimes even pebbles, which are lying somewhere on this road, because sometimes these little pebbles, so to speak, bother and irritate in such daily activities more than systemic issues. And I'm getting to those few questions. Mr Ruszczyk was just asking about health and safety issues. I mean, let's remember one thing: health and safety, health and safety at work, these are not just periodic training, which is not that we, by eliminating the obligation of periodic health and safety training, make the whole system of health and safety at work toothless, i.e. We eliminate the duty, which simply from our discernment, from consultation, from conversations is unnecessary and excessive. I mean, I don't know if you know how these responsibilities in large administrative and office companies are often performed today. One person can do so in quotes, cursing these trainings for 100 or 200 colleagues at work. And that's what these trainings are all about. Employer's responsibility remains, so here it is not that we are making some kind of break in the health and safety system. We give up whether or not we offer to give up this obligation, which is inadequate, which does not bring... This does not result in an effect or effect corresponding to the costs incurred. So that the employer remains, he is still responsible for occupational health and safety. No one here removes this responsibility, but we remove the obligation of training, which is not effective today. And just one more thing: we do not prohibit these trainings, but we make them optional, so if the employer wants to send employees to training, then the law will not prohibit them. The law only makes no such obligation. Mr Pyzik, as he himself said, was more appealing here, so, as I understand it, it was not a direct question. Mr Grabowski asked about the e-state, right? As far as company reports are concerned, it seems to me that financial statements can be submitted electronically since October, right? So if the company does not want to report with these seals and initials, on 200 pages, today the KRS already makes it possible to submit this report electronically and the same path the KRS document goes to the tax office, so there is no paper barrier here. Mr Rometsky spoke about something that appears to have been discussed in the previous point, so this does not apply to this project either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. I would still like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to the discussion and the questions and wanted to comment on a few things. The opposition has made such an accusation that entrepreneurs will not even notice these changes. Of course, not everyone in the opposition said that, but there was one statement. I dare not agree, because in fact some of these changes are minor, but some are very serious and for some entrepreneurs can be crucial in their business. This includes, for example, increasing the income threshold for small taxpayers from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 2 million or, for example, for the introduction of the possibility of single settlement of tax losses up to PLN 5 million. These are very important and large simplifications for many entrepreneurs. I will not refer to changes, to proposals which were raised here during discussions concerning other laws, because these laws were not discussed in the deregulation committee. To answer the questions of your fellow Members... Mr Piotr Pyzik appealed to the Minister for more deregulation. Minister! Mr. Speaker! As a deregulation committee, we're ready to work. [[Applause]] and we will be very happy to proceed with further deregulation projects. By the way, I would very much like to thank the Ministry, the Minister personally, as well as the services of the Commission, the Legislative Office, because thanks to them our work in the committee is very efficient. The work is very substantive and thanks to this we are able to improve a little bit of these projects rather quickly or to bring them into such a form that they can be presented at second reading. The minister's already answered, but I'm just gonna finish it. Mr Ruszczyk - he is not here - asked about reducing the obligation to provide health and safety training. This limitation is not a ban, but I fully agree with the Minister that in many companies these trainings were even a fiction and a completely unnecessary burden. Such situations must be eliminated from economic life, from tax law, also from economic law. So thank you very much. I think that the amendments that were tabled by the parliamentary clubs, the deregulation committee, will, of course, be very efficient in the process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u63	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants (prints No. 2857 and 2912). I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants, contained in print No 2857. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered the draft law at its meeting on 16 October 2018. It is expected that, thanks to the solutions put in place, agricultural traders will be able to use the new distribution channel of produced food and reach a larger group of consumers through retail establishments for the final consumer located in the same voivodship. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development requests the High Sejm to adopt the draft law in print 2912, which takes into account the amendment concerning the date of entry into force of the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the club against the Act in print No 2857 and the report in print No 2912. Of course, this law is expected by farmers and it is a very good law. We have a very big problem in Poland, which is caused by the fact that so far we have been told - and especially the coalition which ruled earlier - that as Poland we cannot introduce a law which will allow the farmer to sell directly processed products. Until now, we have been told that this is not in line with European Union rules and that we cannot introduce such a law. It is a law that meets the expectations of farmers, because it shortens the way from the field to the table. At this point in Poland, companies, supermarkets really decide about prices, because if potatoes cost 10 and 20 gr in Sieradzki - they pay the companies - and in the supermarket they cost 2,20 and 2,40 PLN, the farmer who has to put the work into it does not earn it, including all the costs of fuel, plant protection products, his workshop, his commitment, these costs are many. He has 1 kg of these potatoes 20 gr, and a company that only takes these potatoes from a farmer to its store, to a supermarket, earns 10 times and sells it for 2,20 or 2,40 PLN. This is a disgrace, a scandal, and this is the worst, biggest problem we have in Poland and which we have to solve. E.g. This law allows this problem to be solved, that the farmer will be able to insert his products, sell to shops, restaurants, cafés, to avoid intermediaries, those who exploit the Polish farmer. Because it's really about exploiting and cheating a Polish farmer. Your Marshal, High Izbo, we allow the Polish farmer to sell this product directly - up to 40 thousand. No tax. Over 40,000. It's only gonna be 2%. tax. It's a symbolic tax. This is one of those laws that allows you to shorten this road from field to table. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we had a meeting of the agricultural committee. There was another discussion about another topic, but in fact Polish farmers alarmed that we need to exclude as soon as possible the intermediaries who exploit the Polish farmer, who earn the most, a lot of money that the Polish farmer cheats. We must make such laws, regulate this matter and bring it to this. For many years the Polish farmer was deceived. For many years the Polish farmer was robbed. The most important companies, which so far were state-owned, were sold, allowing processing to influence the price of Polish farmers' products. At this point in Poland, the prices are influenced by companies that are involved in processing, not by Polish farmers and not by Polish companies. That is why farmers alarm us to regulate it so, to shape Polish law, to make this way shorter. This law is one of these roads, one of those steps that allow to repair the situation in Polish agriculture, which has so far been destroyed. The Polish political class was not interested in Polish agriculture for many years, it led to this state that we have today, which is why we need to fix it. Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to thank you for this bill and I would like to ask that this type of legislation be presented so that it is not as it has been so far: we have been deceived that the Union does not allow... Here, in our country, in Poland we decide about our affairs, we decide about Polish agriculture. For this bill, Minister, we want to thank and ask for more such laws that will help the Polish farmer who will support the Polish farmer. [[Applause]] I will repeat what the Prime Minister once said on this speaker, because these are very important words, because they illustrate what the current Polish government has attitude towards Polish agriculture. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that there is no strong Polish economy without strong Polish agriculture. This is the approach of the Polish government to Polish agriculture. May there be more such laws, because they repair the situation, rebuild Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to make a statement on prints 2857 and 2912. But before I make this statement, Mr Telus, I will address you. Why aren't you telling the whole truth? As for the fact that the bill goes in the right direction, the changes to the bill go in the right direction, the Civic Platform club agrees. Please don't tell me this is your innovative project... [[Voice from the room: Whose?]] ...because this project was created under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, which you even write. You increase the amount - because this is the most important, only a pity that so late - to 40,000. PLN per year. [[Voice from the room: You could have done it before.]] [[Voice from the room: You could have introduced this earlier.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The Civic Platform Club does not comment on these changes. The Civic Platform Club will support this project because, in fact, thanks to your actions, the Polish farmer is really having a very difficult time right now. Therefore, any change that works to improve the situation of the Polish farmer, the Civic Platform Club will support. But I have a question, Minister, quite important, I think. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 is replaced by the following: The Minister responsible for Agriculture, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health, may determine... Minister, this is a very important recipe. I have a question: is this regulation, which is so important for these changes, agreed with the Minister of Health? Will we wait again, will the Polish farmer be waiting again and the ministers will be getting along for years and nothing will come of it? Minister, please respond to the stage of the discussions and whether and when it will be a regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. [[As a correction, my name was mentioned.]] Please, sir, but I ask that this be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to correct, because the Member did not understand me or specifically... he simply wants to lie to Polish society. Act on direct sales of processed and unprocessed products up to 20 000. She was introduced to Minister Jurgiel two years ago. Don't lie to me. Because if you're lying... [[Remember what the bill was before...]] Previously, the law allowed for the sale of unprocessed products, and you told us, you lied to us, that the processed Union would not allow us. [[No, sir, you're not.]] We brought it in. Don't lie to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u71	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Lie it off.]] Order in the courtroom, gentlemen. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Making it easy to sell to shops and restaurants - how wonderful it sounds. It reminds me of a song. I'll tell you, I'm getting signals from farmers, I've got a dozen e-mails about this bill and about this procedure. And what you're arguing about here about direct sales doesn't matter right now. Why? Let me explain this to you right now. The requirements under this Act are as in the case of production in a food establishment. As far as the requirements for controls are concerned, farmers will not be able to meet these conditions, and they already say: We will not register in the framework of agricultural retail trade, we will give it up because it does not make any sense. If I don't have a thermometer in my fridge and I have officials coming over and they say it won't go through protocol, then why should I do it? Why should I run this sale? Why should I run this business? Clou all this is a practice. If all we're gonna do here is argue about who made the direct sale and who didn't bring it in, then it's not gonna work. If the thermometer in the refrigerator is a problem, if all this is a problem for farmers and if they are burdened with these various things, with these controls, with this dislike towards them, then direct sales in Poland will never function, it will never be, it will be just a myth that will wrangle over this Seym, over this House. Three years ago, I was a strong supporter of direct sales. And let me tell you that I didn't understand this idea of selling until I started to go into agricultural conversations in all sectors. It's not as easy as it seems to start direct sales. It is a fundamental issue to create legislation so that this sale can function. I'm just gonna make a short list here. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not first buy what is Polish, how should we sell directly? If we import corn from abroad at this moment, what about Polish maize? If the first place was what was Polish and when it was missing, we were just importing, then we could talk about some direct sales. If other plant protection products not adapted to EU standards are used on the Ukrainian market, it kills Polish farmers. This is the case for maize producers. I'm sure the corn producers are sympathetic with sugar beet producers. Sugars were closed in Poland, even the Lubna Cukrownia in Kazimierza Wielka, and these are my homepages. There are no sugar limits today, but we had to get all the equipment out of there. There are two shops out there today. And what about these stores? You can't start a new production there. And we're not gonna be the third exporter of sugar in the world anymore, the third producer, just like I was in primary school. We're never gonna be here again. People are gone. The tobacco market has been destroyed. You can't talk about health when tobacco comes from France. Why is French tobacco in Poland okay, its mechanical production okay? Polish tobacco is to be produced manually, like 40 years ago, while French tobacco does not have to. Polish tobacco industry was finished, sold to foreign companies, and today there is no industry, no impact of billions on the state budget. Repacking - incoming goods from abroad are repacked and marked with Polish labels. Often it is that you cannot sell goods in local purchases, and often, as I see, some purchases only carry out repacking activities. What's going on here? Where does anyone have control of this? Food security of the country. We're talking about energy security. What about food security? Ladies and gentlemen, we will soon sell half the country because someone threatens us from the West, kills our farmers and does not bring us food into the country. I do not fear hunger, but, ladies and gentlemen, it may be that this food will not come to these foreign supermarkets someday. No specific distribution network. How are we supposed to sell directly if, on the one hand, we do not sell first what is Polish and, on the other hand, we do not have any distribution network, such a specific, real event, where we could somehow sell Polish goods? No processing. Now there is this situation with apples and soft fruit. How are we supposed to deal with this overproduction if there are no real processing plants? Another case, no reorganized market squares. If there is still a situation in the market square that a man who drives in to buy himself a kilo of apples, potatoes for dinner, etc., etc., is to pay a market fee of PLN 10 per entrance, although he does not trade, then what are we talking about? He's the one who goes to the market and pays twice as much. And there's no groceries in the market from a farmer in the neighboring village. He's from the West somewhere. You have to make it happen to restructure... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, one second, if you don't mind. ...Polish markets to be friendly in the 21st century in terms of functioning and shopping done by the consumer. We need to get all this done and maybe put it on the municipalities. As far as these disparities and direct sales are concerned, it is possible for us to finally introduce this sale, but the foundations need to be changed. If we don't get to it, it's not gonna work. Let's just sit down and take care of the basic rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u74	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On 16 October, the Committee on Agriculture adopted a draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants, with the only Commission amendment concerning the amendment of the law. According to the amendment, the Act is to apply from 1 January 2019 and not after 14 days from the date of publication, as stated in the earlier draft. This is, of course, a reasonable change resulting from the rules of the tax year. According to the projector, the revenue to the State budget for personal income tax will be reduced by about PLN 38 million per year. In addition, the Veterinary Inspection, the Trade Quality Inspection and Agricultural and Food Articles Inspection and the State Sanitary Inspection will have more, much more work resulting from the control over agricultural retail trade carried out under the new proposed legislation. Therefore, it should not be overlooked that these services need to be financially strengthened, as I mentioned before, when we discussed this law, which should have its source in the state budget. It is undoubtedly important for small farmers to be able to sell their food without intermediaries and without margin. This will not always have a significant impact on their development, but will increase farmers' participation in shaping the final price of the articles. And I definitely agree with you here. This will also be a first step towards the creation of larger plants on a general basis. However, for the development of small farms in the proposed law to really take place, there are still many changes to be made. Farmers need to know what specific requirements are to be met by producing food, e.g. in the kitchen of your own home. I think this is the most important thing. The National Veterinary and Medical Chamber drew attention to some inconsistencies in the proposed regulations in the context of the sale of agricultural products in shops and at fairs. This concerns the absence of a shelf-life date, which is determined on the basis of expensive storage tests, the lack of guarantees to ensure special technical and temperature conditions for production and the possibility of marketing food of unknown origin. This must also be borne in mind when creating a law facilitating the sale of processed products to farmers. This project is a nice... It can be said that there is still a long way to go and many changes need to be made. This is a small change which, before the elections, was supposed to give the impression that PiS was doing something for farmers, i.e. simply populism, but from the perspective of many farmers it brings little. Farmers are still protesting. On 18 October in Warsaw, the Trade Union of Farmers of the Republic of Solidarnia protested. Farmers are protesting because they need decisive help in the fight against ASF, which you have not provided all the time, they need to secure funds in the national budget to compensate for natural disasters, they need state aid in the development of Polish agricultural specialisations and in strengthening the distribution chains of Polish products and mechanisms to support their exports, and they need new solutions in the area of credit policy. According to the report of the National Debt Register of the Economic Information Office, the debt in the agricultural sector amounts to almost PLN 413 million. Although the project is under no circumstances groundbreaking, the Posel Club Modern will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Ooh... bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u75	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to ask another question? Sign up, please. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. How does the legislator intend to eliminate the risk to consumers' health when selling in the framework of agricultural trade in raw meat products? It is known that in domestic production, subsequent storage, distribution and subsequent marketing stages, which last up to a few days, without maintaining the continuity of the refrigeration chain, it is impossible to maintain the required microbiological parameters. And second question. What will be the level of expenditure from the state budget for carrying out the supervision of sanitary quality and the commercial quality of these products delivered in the framework of agricultural retail trade to new customers, namely shops, canteens and restaurants, by the Veterinary Inspection, sanitary inspection and the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law redefines taxation of direct sales. The exemption in question was introduced up to 40 000. PLN per year. The condition is to keep sales records. Over 40 thousand. PLN can be used for tax at a flat rate of 2%. Unfortunately, until a draft regulation of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on quantitative limits for agricultural retail trade appears, the quality of this solution cannot be assessed for farmers. However, a novelty is the recognition of this exemption as de minimis aid. I would like to ask, will it be de minimis aid in agriculture, at least in part? These are very important matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u79	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I have a simple question. Wine is also processed as an agricultural product, and for many years I have been interested in it, because it is a great opportunity for agriculture, for those small farms where the land is often set aside, and a hectare, two hectares of such a vineyard will really allow the farmer concerned to live smoothly. I would like to ask if this bill will also cover the sale of wine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of farmers, producers of the healthiest, diverse and, what is also important, tasty food, I would like to thank you for the next step on the road to normality in Poland. However, in my view, the justification for the proposed amendment lacks a single issue, which certainly falls within the scope of the impact of the proposed project. And here's the question: why isn't there a reason for this? Namely, as President of the Parliamentary Group for: Tourism I must draw attention to the fact that the shortening of the supply chain between the farmer and the consumer and the release of processing carried out by the farmer himself is a recipe for the success of the so-called offer. culinary tourism, but also to improve the quality of tourism services in our country. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's no Mr. Telus, but I think he's gonna be watching this because this is our bill from our committee. The Member calls on the Government to write further good laws. I wanted to say to the Member here that Members can also write good laws, and I would like Mr Telus to take advantage of this opportunity. That's what we wrote three years ago about farmers selling food, farmers waiting for it. On the other hand, farmers are dissatisfied with this law because it simply does not meet farmers. There are no regulations that tell us what to look like, for example, control, and at the moment, after the veterinary inspection, many farmers want to give up agricultural retail. Hence my question: How many people have so far registered in the framework of agricultural retail trade and how many have been registered in this agricultural retail trade [[♪ The bell ♪]] After these checks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have this question: why is it taking so long? Since the beginning of the term of office, you hear several phrases every once in a while, which are like an old, heated chop. That's what they say about lowering the ZUS contribution, the so-called ZUS contribution. a small ZUS, which has been introduced several times by you. And is it finally introduced and real entrepreneurs can benefit from it? Only a few. Unfortunately, the same is true of direct sales. Therefore, I have a question: Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you keep farmers waiting so long? After all, this term of office of the Sejm has lasted for 3 years. The bill enabling farmers to sell directly has already been presented by Kukiz15 - what Jarosław Sachajko, our Member, said - 3 years ago. Another project was presented at the beginning of this year, and we are only preparing at the end of the year, actually working on a project that still does not meet the expectations of farmers. Is this good legislation, ladies and gentlemen? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u87	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I come from a small village called Czaczyce, I have an agricultural education, I can work, I can run a farm together with my family. I wanted to ask you if, according to the Minister, small farms that fall because I see it in my village, in which once every farm was produced, everyone kept on this farm... Today it doesn't exist, today there are several farms, and that's what happens to most villages. Please tell me: Will this bill cause people who have left the village to close their farms, return, or will it really be some big economic boom in the country, people will start to come back and start reopening their farms? That's the first question. And tell me what you have for larger farms, because I understand that this is a solution for small farms. What is the solution for larger farms in the context of the lack of outlets for their goods? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u89	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Simon Giżyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I respond to those voices that contained questions, both in the first part and in the case of strict questions. Mr Dunin here prejudiced both the answer and the assumption of the question, which was to be de facto a rhetorical question and the same answer. I, of course, have reached out to this section of the bill that you are referring to. It is clearly stated here that the Minister responsible for Agriculture, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health, can specify - i.e. by means of a regulation - a detailed way of marking the place of disposal of food to the final consumer by the operator of the agricultural retail trade, etc. So that's what you asked, and that means it's not a mandatory formula. She with such a record is very beneficial to the producer and to the final consumer, can only be applied if his wish is so. This will of course be possible at any time, and then such an agreement will arise immediately in relation to actual needs, i.e. comments, market demands and producers. [[But did you...]] Today, there is no need for such an agreement to be agreed upon. This is an element at this law to start its action completely unnecessary. Now, speaking of questions... [[The Ministry doesn't need any regulations for this bill so the farmer knows how to prepare himself?]] Everything is said in the bill, no doubts in the course of consultations and discussions. I answered the Members' questions literally according to the content of the questions. There were also suggestions and questions resulting from the misunderstanding of the essence of the law itself and the value flowing from it, after all, concerning this short chain from producer to consumer, the chain most, can be said, shortened in terms of this mediation in order to increase too, truth, producer, to ensure the possibility of selling larger lots. But we're talking about a short chain, a chain for small and small parties, not hundreds of thousands. Therefore, the procedures that we are applying here are completely consistent with the intent, and by the government appreciated, because in the draft law accepted and adopted. Mr Paweł Bańkowski from the Civic Platform - well, it is also completely obvious and the answer is also so default and obvious. On the one hand, the default, because it is obvious also with regard to the rules. The manufacturer shall be responsible for what he offers and for the specific veterinary and other provisions in force which apply the services in checks and which he also requires compliance with. So that here it is absolutely clear as to the level, and the issues and the matter are also not doubted. The level of expenditure - there are no additional costs. To the district chapter there are 321 posts - to the Main Inspection, to the Chief Inspector, i.e. the posts will be enriched mainly by county inspectors. It will be possible to control what Mr Bańkowski asked, namely food security. Similarly, there will be no additional costs in correspondence with the control activities carried out by the other inspections. These are the expenditures provided for in the state budget, so there will be no additional costs. As regards the question of Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform, we have here the situation that, with regard to processing, i.e. non-agricultural activities, the aid will be in the de minimis formula within 3 years up to 200,000. Euros. I will answer Mr Michal Wojtkiewicz from Law and Justice: this law does not cover excise goods. [[Oh, that's terrible. Why? I mean, an excise can be arranged.]] Mr Sachaiko asked about the correlation of non-existent additional provisions with the general provisions. Of course, the inspection uses general rules, but for the purposes of the situation, if there is a need for greater awareness, the truth, the sub-producers, or the need to adapt production to the actual requirements, immediately in the event of a finding of confusion, the instructions of the Veterinary Inspection under the control of the Ministry will be issued. Such a document and such directives will be published immediately. We do not induce a wolf from the forest, but here there will be a flexible response to situations, I think that non-conflictal, but possibly complementary and protective is the good that flows from intent and laws. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u91	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. This project was long awaited by the public, both by Polish farmers and consumers. We all know that public awareness of healthy food is growing and that is why we pay more attention to the source of our food. We are increasingly able to pay even more for a given product if we are sure that it is safe, without preservatives or artificial taste improvers. I am pleased to note that such attributes are attributed to food produced from native raw materials by a Polish farmer. This project makes it easier for us to access natural products and the solutions it provides incentives for farmers to benefit from direct sales opportunities. Tax changes, i.e. increasing the amount of income exempt from personal income tax to 40 000. zł, guarantee that this solution will simply pay off. In turn, allowing the possibility of selling produced food to shops, restaurants, cafeterias in the framework of agricultural retail markets increases the market. I am pleased to see the creation of a law favourable to agriculture and the Polish countryside. By designing such regulations, the Polish government shows that the difficult situation of farmers is not indifferent to it, that it listens to their expectations, and above all that it creates new opportunities for development of the Polish village. It is no secret that a large part of Poles are strongly associated with Polish tradition and culture. This sense of citizenship and solidarity with compatriots translates into the fact that we are willing to support this Polishness, among others. because we buy native products. So I am convinced that facilitating access to healthy Polish food, which guarantees us this project, is another good solution introduced by the Government of the United Right. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceding the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u93	We will proceed to the third reading of the project in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws (Prints No. 2789 and 2893). I ask Mr Grzegorz Wozniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, prints No. 2789 and 2893. The Commission of Administration and Home Affairs at its meeting on 4 October 2018 considered the report of the Emergency Sub-Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws and adopted this draft law. The project concerns the implementation and general issue of personal evidence containing an electronic layer allowing the citizen to use the electronic means covered by it, as well as the provision of an electronic identity card called a personal profile providing a high level of trust that will enable him to confirm his identity in online services. Discussions in the subcommittee as well as in the committee were very substantive. Finally, 24 Members were in favour of the report as a whole, along with the amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau. Nobody was against it, no one abstained. On behalf of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, I ask the High House to adopt this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Wozniak will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, print No. 2789. The aim of the Act is to provide every citizen with a secure electronic communication tool, including: with administration, health care or commercial entities. That's a new I.D. tool. Poland is one of the few European countries in which no identity card with an electronic layer has yet been issued. This document will clearly and undeniably confirm the identity of the citizen. It will also be used to authenticate e-services in public administration and to sign electronic documents, and will allow you to confirm your presence at a certain time and place using ICT systems. It's gonna happen over time. The new evidence will also have an ICAO application, which is a travel document with biometric characteristics: a facial image. The new identity card will contain data in an electronic layer, which, together with the data known only to the holder of this proof, will allow both to authenticate it in the ICT systems where online services are provided and to provide electronic documents with an electronic signature. The electronic signature will be a solution similar to the already known, already functioning and used in both the administration and the business of qualified electronic signature. The proposed law implements earlier intentions in this area, which have not yet been implemented. The implementation of the electronic identity card was included in the State's computerization plan for 2007 and 2010 which provided for the introduction of a multi-functional electronic identity document but failed to implement it. New identity cards will be issued from March 2019. The exchange of existing personal evidence for evidence with an electronic layer will concern personal evidence with a certain period of validity, i.e. those personal evidence which will be in circulation until the end of 2028. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on amending the Personal Evidence Act. High Izbo! It is worth recalling that this law contains solutions relating to the electronic layer very similar to those originally adopted in the Personal Evidence Act of 2010, but at that time this technology was still relatively expensive, which is why in the following years we withdrew from introducing the identity card with the electronic layer. Today these technologies are without comparison cheaper, because it is good that such a change is being made. We support this bill, as we will support other solutions for enabling citizens to make extensive use of administration services via the Internet. At first reading, we had some doubts about securing the identity card with an electronic layer, while during the work of the subcommittee and commission, the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration resolved these doubts. I would also like to say that it is very good that, regardless of the existence of evidence with an electronic layer, the current system, i.e. the ability of citizens to confirm their identity through the profile of trusted ePUAP, only one point needs to be made here, because during the work of the committee there has been a large failure of administration, i.e. It turned out that those who tried to join the electoral register in Warsaw, mainly in Warsaw, through the ePUAP system, unfortunately could not do so because of certain errors in the system. It is not the MSWiA's fault, because this project is running another resort, but it shows how much we need to do to restore confidence in the use of electronic services, because the citizen needs to be sure that how he deals with the matter electronically, now by means of a personal ID with an electronic layer or by means of a trusted profile, this issue will be dealt with as effectively as when he simply goes to office. Therefore, we have a lot of work ahead of us to convince citizens to simply use e-services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Any action and solutions that will give citizens greater opportunities for secure electronic communication with the administration or health services and other commercial actors will be absolutely supported by us. It is very good that the Act contains some flexible possibilities and functions which the holder of this proof himself will choose. It is very good that it is possible that, despite this successive introduction of the exchange of evidence from March next year to 2019, the citizen himself, wanting to have such evidence in advance, will also be able to do so. It seems that actually the most important time will be March, when you will introduce this evidence, so that there is no such situation as in the case of CEPiK with registration documents. It is very important that citizens trust that it is safe and start using it massly. Ladies and gentlemen! Information systems, which are in offices, i.e. currently the Source application, do not require change and this also seems very beneficial. So that the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u101	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, print No. 2789, is a very good project. This is a project that has been introducing the issue of new identity cards with an electronic layer since March 2019. It's supposed to take about 10 years. Any owner of this evidence will be able to exchange evidence with an electronic layer before the validity of the document in question expires. Here I agree with my predecessors that a very good element is that everyone can choose when they want to exchange this proof. This evidence, e-proof, will unambiguously confirm the identity of the citizen, is intended to serve to authenticate it in e-services of public administration and to sign electronic documents. The personal profile will be included in the personal ID of each adult and with limited legal capacity. The new evidence will also include data to provide the electronic document with an advanced electronic signature. In addition, this e-proof will have an application, i.e. it will be a document that can also be used for travel. It's about this biometric feature: a picture of the face. So that the new identity card is to be such a secure, free electronic communication tool with the administration, health services and commercial operators. This is a very good solution because it makes it easier for citizens to operate in a world that is increasingly computerized, and is increasingly evading this virtual sphere, the network sphere. We have only one point that, of course, the idea is very good, but in general we would be more in favour of going away from the identity card and going to the system, I don't know, a passport that will have all these biometric data, will be able to be used in many aspects. The point is to limit as much as possible the number of documents we need to have - driver's license, ID, passport. There are countries in which you don't need so many documents, and I think it would be such a good suggestion about the next step for the ministry. We will, of course, support this project as a very good one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, prints No. 2789 and 2893. It's hard not to support this bill. Poland will join countries where citizens can use personal evidence with electronic layer and biometric data. It is a pity that this process has lasted so long, but the arguments which Mr Wójcik put forward actually justified that, at a time when there would be very high costs for introducing this system, it would be a heavy burden for the budget. At the moment, the situation has indeed changed, because these costs are much lower. However, I will not hide that I was a little concerned about perturbation, because let us remember that this evidence was to be provided with a chip, which was to be produced by a Polish company, was to be a Polish peak of technology, and it turns out that unfortunately it did not work, it seems that we are returning to the idea that we will be based on chips, which will probably not be Polish production, but western production. We had reservations about this law as to whether a monopoly is a good solution in the economy. In our opinion, no. However, this law makes the State Security Printing Works a monopoly in the production of this evidence impossible to tender. I understand security reasons, but given that the State Security Printing Works manufactures passports for other countries, also produces banknotes, prints banknotes for countries, especially South America, it shows that this should not be a barrier for anyone to be able to tender. Perhaps it would turn out that these costs would be lower, however, when a lower price would be offered in the tender. But to recap, we think it's a good thing. I just have one question, if it doesn't turn out there's still some kind of perturbation in March. Let us not forget that we have received support from the European Union for this system. If this system does not function and this evidence is not produced by March, we may lose this funding, in the amount of PLN 150 million, given that even if one or two personal evidence with an electronic layer is produced, it is difficult to prove that this is already the implementation of this contract. So I hope we can close it so that the money doesn't have to be returned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u106	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats in a second reading position with regard to the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the amendment of the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. As in the speech of 13 September 2018, following a re-examination of the draft law submitted to the High House of Government together with the committee's report, I find that today's proposal for controversy does not raise any concerns. At this point, the advantages of its use must not be overlooked, as it provides a wider and faster access for citizens to public administration services, health services, without excluding widely understood commercial services. The project solves problems such as authentication mechanisms as well as electronic signature. The revised Personal Evidence Act will inevitably and unambiguously confirm the identity of the citizen, serve to authenticate the e-services of the public administration, including the signing of electronic documents. The new identity card will have an ICAO application, i.e. travel document with biometric feature facial image. The proposed signature, called a personal signature, as an electronic signature will comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council and eIDAS. The introduction of new solutions resulting from specific provisions will ensure that the Republic of Poland meets the planned continuation of the project of the ID system. As far as changes in the rules on the issuing of personal evidence are concerned, the legislator does not foresee this. High Izbo! In the course of the committee's work, doubts were resolved as to divergent comments and views, such as the protection of personal data or the possible redevelopment of all existing systems. It is beyond doubt that the PESEL number is the identification number of the citizen referred to in the implementing rules of the eIDAS Regulation and which is in line with the GDPR. We welcome the need for amendments to the rules already in force in order to correlate them with the matter that has been processed today, which must be considered necessary and necessary. In this situation, the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, with in-depth knowledge of the discussion at the committee meeting, will support the adoption of the print report No 2893. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u107	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws following the work on this project in committee. E-proof is a solution which has been promised to Poles for years. The first steps were taken in 2010, unfortunately unsuccessfully. That is why I am pleased that the current government has started work, the results of which we can discuss today. I believe that in March 2019 we will be able to exchange our personal evidence for new evidence with an electronic layer. For I have no doubt that the ongoing digitalisation process has been an integral part of development for years. Modern solutions in a broad perspective generate savings for the state budget, but also make our daily functioning much easier. Let me remind you that e-proof will be a free and secure tool allowing us to authorize state services. It will improve contact with public administration and health services, but also with various commercial actors. One of the important changes I believe will be the possibility for every citizen to confirm their online identity and to sign an electronic signature without having to purchase a special device. In my view, this has been one of the main barriers to the use of e-signatures so far, and I am convinced that the changes that have been made will contribute significantly to the dissemination of online services currently available. I also welcome the fact that the exchange of currently used documents for e-proofs will be free of charge, which does not generate additional costs from citizens. The fact that the Act does not provide for mandatory exchange of current documents will translate into a natural distribution of the necessary costs which, for this reason, are covered by the State budget. The introduction of e-proofs for general use - in my opinion - will serve the development of our country, which at the same time provides a potential opportunity to implement further facilitations for citizens. I have no doubt that the solutions contained in the Act will not only be of a streamlining nature, but also ensure the safe functioning of personal evidence. About Free and Solidarni will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to give a brief indication of the frequently reported problem with the procedure of issuing personal evidence. Well, the deadline for issuing a new identity card, e.g. If you lose it, lose it or steal it, it's a month. The lack of identity card is a number of important problems for those who do not have the opportunity in any other way to confirm their identity or citizenship. This problem concerns all areas of their lives. In the era of advanced computerization and digitalization, when the exchange of information is rapid and the pace of life is very fast and requires rapid action and response, it is a serious inconvenience to wait 30 days for an ID. This is a kind of disproportion to the detriment of citizens. Can not be shortened due to advanced computerization [[♪ The bell ♪]] waiting time for personal evidence e.g. 14 days? I'll leave that up to you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u111	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! About personal evidence equipped with so-called. The digital layer has been spoken for a long time. As far as I remember, their introduction of the PO-PSL government has moved several times, despite the fact that the funding of this project from European Union funds existed. After Mr Wójcik's speech, I have the following question: What was the state of play at the Ministry of Digital Affairs at the end of 2015? And I'm gonna ask you to answer that question in writing. I hope that, as in other matters, the good change made by the Law and Justice will quickly and effectively become a fact. Life is the best way to verify this project. So here's my next question: What actions are you planning to take to make these changes as painless as possible? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, the introduction of a personal ID with an electronic layer is one of the tools that will enable the citizen to use... to handle the matter online, but other tools will also be needed for this. Firstly, you will need a system that will enable the dissemination of e-services, and I have already talked about it, but you will also need readers that will enable you to read the information contained in this layer of electronic identity card. I would very much like to ask the Minister to present here the information you have on your ideas to disseminate to the public readers as well. This was the case at the committee meeting, and I think it is worth putting these ideas here too, pointing out a timetable when these appropriate tools are ready, so that citizens can actually handle things online. And I also have a request for the Minister to provide information here to dispel all doubts about how the identity card will be protected against someone, for example. In some public place, he didn't read to us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The data that's in the I.D., and he didn't use them in any criminal activity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u115	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the moment the technological process is very often so advanced that it allows in the electronic layer of individual documents to put a lot of data. Did the Ministry consider the possibility that such evidence - to limit the number of documents used by the citizen - would also have information on the so-called "electronic layer." An electronic medical service register? This could actually make all the data about the citizen put in this layer, but it could also allow for more efficient handling of patients in hospitals, clinics, pharmacies. Is such an idea even present, and perhaps it would be worth considering adding more information to this electronic layer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u117	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry has already released the model document, we have it. He will not be too different from the one before. It's gonna be similar, it's gonna be almost... I would like to ask you whether you have checked this new evidence for functionality in the case of the elderly. We know there's less information. We have, for example. for half of this proof the inscription "Poland." Very good. Wouldn't it be better if... Have you received such comments, or have older people suggested that these subtitles could be a little bigger if we have the opportunity? Before this information was more, now we have less and we have the opportunity to adapt these documents to the needs of older people who, using this, could have better. Did you have such comments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u119	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to answer the questions of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Majewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer your questions one at a time. The question asked by Mrs Navel from the Civic Platform. The average time to issue proof in Poland is 15 days. 30 days is a statutory term, while as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration concluded, the average waiting time is 15 days, so this is very close to the 14 days that you are calling for. As far as IT tools are concerned, this system is already computerized, while central personalisation is an obstacle. For security reasons, it takes place only in one place. The evidence is provided by the police to the municipalities, sometimes remote, so this is an obstacle to shortening this process. Of course, with regard to the state of play of the project, together with the Ministry of Digital Affairs, we will respond to Mr Pyzik in writing. It should be noted here that the Ministry of Digitalization is the beneficiary of this EU programme, that the Ministry of Digitalization is the leader in this process, and together with the Ministry of Digitalization we will answer this question. Indeed, as far as the level of progress is concerned, it must be acknowledged that only a government concept, which was created in mid-2016, has dynamicised the preparations for issuing electronic layer blanks. I am grateful to all the clubs for their widely declared support for this project, but it is important to be honest that certain actions could have been carried out earlier. As for Mr Wójcik's question about the readers, of course, during the work of the steering committee on this project we were leaning on this problem. First of all, readers are not something that citizens need to have to use e-proof, because e-proof retains all the existing functions of proof, it is an identity document. If citizens do not need to use these electronic functions, they do not need to. In Germany, this saturation is 20%: 20% of the users of proof with electronic layer use its electronic functionality. On the other hand, we are really working to promote access to e-proof functionality among citizens through an application that would act as a reader for the citizen. As far as public reading protection is concerned, it is a safeguard that reading the electronic layer alone does not mean access to the electronic part of the e-proof. The CAN number to which the user will have the e-proof shall be authentic. It's gonna be a two-step verification: electronic verification plus entering this number. This makes this unique number prevent unauthorized use. As to Mr Meysztowicz's question concerning the electronic medical register, evidence is not a data carrier, but it is the key to accessing data. As far as I know, the Ministry of Health is working on its part of the project. Moreover, as far as the European Commission's decision is concerned, access to health systems through e-proof is one of the elements of maturity for the project to be cleared positively. In the electronic layer itself, no data will be and cannot be recorded, but if the relevant systems are prepared and I know that such work is ongoing in the Ministry of Health, then the evidence will indeed be helpful in the health systems. As for Mrs Nemś's question concerning the elderly and the evidence in the consultation, we did not receive such comments. As you have noticed, this evidence is similar to the present one. No complaints regarding the legibility of this evidence are received. Indeed, in this version of the document, which will be linked to the e-proof, the PESEL number and the proof number are written in a larger font than in the current document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries (Prints No. 2810 and 2922). I ask Mr Zaremba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, it is my pleasure to present a report on the procedure for the bill in question. This government bill amending the Maritime Fisheries Act, print No. 2810, was presented to the committee. The aim of the project is to harmonise the way in which operators carrying out commercial and recreational fishing tasks are inspected by establishing a single body appointed to control compliance with these rules and the organisation of the fish market in Poland. The first reading of the project took place at the 79th meeting of the Sejm on 3 October. The project was then addressed to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. The Commission examined the draft at its meeting on 22 October 2018. The Commission changed the title of the law and adopted editorial and legislative amendments. The Commission accepted without objection the draft law report, print No 2922. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u123	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position as regards the Law on the amendment of the Maritime Fisheries Act. The proposed law amends the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014. According to the project, a new central government body will be set up in place of the three previously operating regional inspectors of sea fishing in Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin: the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries, based in Słupsk, in order to harmonise the way inspections are carried out by commercial and recreational fisheries operators. The amendments to the Maritime Fisheries Act also provide for the possibility to exchange individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels in accordance with the principle of species per species. The proposed solution will allow for the efficient use of fishing quotas while there is no negative effect on trade in fishing quotas. The draft law also proposes amendments to the rules on the register of fishing vessels by adapting them to EU regulations, but the Law and Justice Club makes amendments that address the following issues. The purpose of the first amendment is to enable the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries to make the necessary staff changes while ensuring checks for workers whose employment relationship will expire at levels higher than those provided for in the Law on special rules for the termination of employment relationships for reasons not affecting workers. The amendment is particularly important in the context of administrative workers whose scope of tasks in the three regional fisheries inspectors was similar. The second amendment clarifies the provisions of the Act as regards situations where an individual fishing quota can be considered as being used. The proposed solution creates a legal position whereby the fishing quota can be considered as being used after it is actually harvested. In the third amendment, we provide for the possibility to transfer individual fishing quotas between fishing vessels of the same vessel owner, without having to fulfil the condition that they have the status of shipowners for 24 consecutive months. The amendment will optimise fishing activities. The fourth amendment aligns the provisions of the Maritime Fisheries Act with the guidelines of the European Commission. The re-imposition of an obligation by the master of a fishing vessel to include in the monthly catch and overfished species of marine organisms by vessels below 8 metres of overall length will allow for an even more accurate collection of fishing data, which is extremely important in the case of worsening stocks of the Baltic Sea. The fifth amendment concerns the adaptation of the deadlines set out in the draft provision to the current legislative phase. The maintenance of the deadlines proposed by the applicant will result in them not being able to be complied with. I therefore submit to you the Marshal of the Law and Justice Club's amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u125	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Borowczak, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. So please, Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the Act amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries, print No 2810. The proposed amendments harmonise the way in which operators engaged in commercial and recreational fishing are inspected by establishing a single body appointed to control compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market. The draft law provides for the appointment of a Chief Inspector for Maritime Fisheries based in Słupsk. At present, there is an unfavourable division between the three regional marine fisheries inspectors in Szczecin, Słupsk and Gdynia. Currently, 47 workers are employed, inspectors who are subject to the three regional fisheries inspectors. Each district inspector has internal procedures that are incomplete, which makes checks inconsistent. The contested law solves this problem in a comprehensive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Misilo made his statement in writing. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u128	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We are in the process of proceeding with the Government Act amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries in print 2810 and 2922. Both during the first reading and today, my previous speakers discussed the content of the project in a very precise and detailed manner. I don't think I'm going to repeat all the issues that are in the project. We accept this and we are also of the opinion as a club that our legislation should be brought into line with EU legislation. So we accept all the records that serve this purpose. After my first reading and listening to the speeches, I felt that a unified system would be put in place. Today, when I listen to Mrs PiS, I am a little surprised - the staff amendment and the briefing. We're losing our second reading, it's a government project. It's either an autofix or admitting we forgot something. And if the staff amendment has already broken this bubble that we're going to get through so nicely with these three inspectors, we're going to create one for the care of those who worked in them as well. And the second moment: the amendment I have heard about today - the fourth which is to adapt the provisions in this project to the guidelines of the European Union. So what? Is that what we forgot about the project? Minister, the self-correction would be a man-to-man approach. We forgot. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What a difference, Mr. Let's just be glad we're moving forward.]] Excuse me, Mrs... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What a difference. Let's just be glad we're moving forward.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u129	But you're welcome to... Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u130	But I'm not saying we won't vote in favour. Isn't that something I'm allowed to pay attention to? Excuse me, Member, I... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: The bad ballerina is bothered by the hem at the skirt.]] I think those amendments were yours, not mine, but mine... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But good?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u131	Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u132	Your marshal, if I could finish. I try not to disturb the speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u133	Yes, yes, you can. My fellow Member, the emotions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u134	I respect the president, we're doing a good job, and today, it's a bit of a mess. I think that these are the comments I raise, but, as at first reading, on behalf of the club, I present an opinion in which we are in favour of continuing our work, considering, as it turns out, the necessary amendments and additions at the committee meeting and proceeding to the third reading at the appropriate time. Thank you very much. [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Bravo, bravo, Mr. What's the point of being mean?]] But what malice?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u135	Member, but you're welcome. I'd really like to ask for some peace. Very...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u136	I'm calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u137	I asked the Member, not the Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act following the work on this project in committee. I have no doubt that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the development of sea fishing in Poland. I would like to remind you that the novel provides for the creation of the Main Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate in Słupsk, which will constitute one control body for compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market. Today's structure, i.e. the three regional fisheries inspectors and 14 field inspectors, is extremely unfavourable and inefficient. As the drafters rightly point out in their opinion, the checks carried out are inconsistent and internal procedures are often outdated. The creation of a new body, which will replace the three existing ones, will lead to the harmonisation of the way in which fisheries operators are inspected and to the development of appropriate standards. As I said before, I also feel that the regulations that allow the exchange of fishing quotas between operators of fishing vessels, in accordance with the principle of species per species, are an important element of the law. As the initiators themselves point out, this law will meet the expectations of the fishing environment and allow more efficient use of fishing quotas. About Wola and Solidarni fully supports the proposed changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u139	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Borowczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u140	Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry to have missed you earlier, but communications have been a little slow. But by the way... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: In Warsaw? In Warsaw, communication failed?]] Yes, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u141	I'm so sorry. Madame, I really...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u142	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform supports this project. The previous talks with the Minister and the committee vote also entitles us to say that this project is good. I'm sure we're asking the Minister again to take a look. Twelve, it's about him being respected. This applies to employed people. We know that there will be one central centre of the chief fisheries inspector in Słupsk, but the point is not to lose those cool people who are in Szczecin or Gdynia. I also think that some people are afraid because they're older. The point is not to lose these people. We will vote in favour of this project because it is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u143	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u144	The position of the modern club in relation to the amendment of the Maritime Fisheries Act. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law amends the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014 (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2018 poz. 514 and 650) in order to harmonise the way in which commercial and recreational fisheries operators are inspected by setting up a single body appointed to control compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and on the organisation of the fish market. Słupsk will be the seat of the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries. At the same time, the possibility for the Minister responsible for fisheries to set up and abolish the local centres of that body by means of an order. The proposed law also creates, by adding to the provisions of the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014 a proposed article. 53a, possibility to exchange individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels in accordance with the principle: species per species. It assumes that individual fishing quotas may be exchanged in whole or in part between shipowners of fishing vessels allocated to the area concerned by the individual fishing quotas of the species of marine organisms concerned. Exchanges may be carried out in accordance with the conversion factor for the quantity of marine organisms of the species concerned subject to an individual fishing quota which may be indicated for a specific quantity of marine organisms of another species covered by an individual fishing quota in the area concerned. The specific conversion factor shall be determined annually by the Minister responsible for fisheries, by means of a regulation, on the basis of the overall catch quotas and the market value of the various species of marine organisms and in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The Minister shall also lay down detailed conditions for the exchange of individual fishing quotas. Thus, Minister PiS will determine and manually control the exchange of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels. The planning economy is coming to us with great steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u145	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block... I'm sorry. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the Central European Institute (prints No. 2910 and 2969). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u146	The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting yesterday adopted the draft submitted and proposes that the High House accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u147	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Gosiewska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the establishment of the Central European Institute. The Law and Justice Club believes that this direction, the establishment of the Central European Institute, is a good direction. The Tri-Morza project is one of the strategic projects of the government of the Republic of Poland in the field of foreign policy. The Tri-Moor as a new direction of Poland's activities in external relations, which involves intensifying cooperation between countries involved in the economic field, in particular through joint infrastructure investments, which should also translate into deepening political relations, building a more coherent block of countries with similar culture, similar historical experience, needs strategic facilities. It is about analytical facilities for political decision-making, on the one hand, and on the other, building relations with countries involved at a level below the political level, which will help to build wider support for the initiative. None of the existing research institutes deal with geopolitical issues focused on the Tri-Morch initiative and cooperation between Central and Central Eastern European countries. Hence the government's initiative, which we support as a club. Using an entity already in existence, the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe in Lublin, by reforming it, is a good starting point. The reform of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe can be a reference point for the reform of the Western Institute in Poznań. The experience of the reformed Western Institute shows that institutes dealing with geopolitical issues requiring cooperation with foreign entities and the creation of branches outside Poland are better functioning in the form of a state organizational unit. In addition, the efficient functioning of the Institute depends on the change of the targeted grant to the individual, which will make the objectives and means of achieving them more flexible, adapt them to the changing geopolitical situation. Under the law governing the operation of research institutes, this far-reaching reform of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe would not be possible. Under the proposed law, the Central European Institute will be a state legal entity. Such a statute will enable him to carry out the tasks entrusted to him effectively. The acquisition of legal personality will broaden the institute's substantive autonomy, allowing the research team to engage more fully in international affairs. In particular, it is a broad understanding of issues such as geopolitical, social and economic. The Institute's revenue will be among others. an annual entity grant from the budget to cover the current costs of the Institute's activities, which will enable the effective development of the expert and analytical function. The performance of these functions is necessary in the context of dynamic changes of the international environment of Poland. The Institute of Central Europe, after the entry into force of this law, will operate on the basis of an individual grant, similar to similar entities: the Eastern Studies Centre. Mark Karpia, Polish Institute of International Relations or Polish Institute of Western Relations Zygmunt Wojciechowski. In conclusion, the Law and Justice Club supports the work of this law. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform Club. You don't have an MP. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There isn't any either. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on this law. I do not want to question to any extent the need to build an analytical base for the government. It is known that each administration, in particular the government administration, should be equipped with the necessary knowledge, which serves not only to make decisions but also to build and make decisions that affect strategic decisions of the State. In this regard, given that one of the announced priorities of this government is the issue of building a Tri-marriage alliance, this is, of course, one of the elements that comes into account. It is worth noting, however, that in the bill submitted, which we have the honour of proceding today, the current Institute of Central and Eastern Europe is being wound up, complete liquidation. Of course, the resources that are in the existing institution in Lublin will be transferred to not equipped with a new Central European Institute. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the opportunities offered by the present Central and Eastern European Institute have not been taken advantage of. Let me remind you that the 2017 budget of this institute was only 1275 thousand. zł. In fact, it consisted of two grants, two ministries, so the funds were relatively small. Therefore, it is difficult to expect such an institute to have so little resources, yet dedicated, from two grants, to carry out a very wide range of activities. What you are proposing in this bill will actually lead to the complete liquidation of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe. The assets and assets will be taken over by the new institute. The term of office of the Director of the Institute has expired. Another point, the membership of the Scientific Council ceases, so it can be said - apart from the employees, and only the employees move to the new institute - that a complete purge has been carried out. In addition, this institute will generate quite high costs. The funds earmarked for the Institute in 10 years will exceed PLN 90 million, as a result of the bill. However, it must be said very clearly that this amount is very radically increasing, from 4 million in the first year to 14 million, in a few years such a level will be achieved, I think, also after 10 years, or even higher, because it is difficult to imagine... I do not want to question, as I said, the need to equip the government administration with the necessary analytical facilities, but the Modern Posel Club will not support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Institute of Central and Eastern Europe operates in Lublin with great achievements. Initially, i.e. Since 1991, it has functioned as an association, the Society of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, and since 2001 as a research and development unit established by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and financed by the Minister of Science and Higher Education. The history of the Institute is concerned with the creation and development of societies and nations in Central and Eastern Europe, the history of churches and religious communities, religious and national tolerance, civic traditions, as well as the situation of national and religious minorities. The Institute also analyses current political, cultural and social developments in the part of Europe between the Baltic, the Adriatic and the Black Sea. I deliberately stress this because these are statements taken out of the tasks which the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe has in its scope. The Association of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe has gathered over 130 outstanding intellectuals, specialists in many fields of science, who have contributed to the deepening of knowledge about this part of Europe. In the Institute there are many references to the authority and achievements of many Poles, intercessors of the idea of Central and Eastern Europe, including among others. George Giedroyc or John Paul II, the holy pope and the tireless advocate of reconciliation between the peoples of our region. The first director of the Institute was Professor Jerzy Kłoczowski, the initiator of the establishment of the Institute, and earlier the appointment of the Society. Professor Kłoczowski died last year. He was an outstanding character not only for the institute. He was an outstanding historian, professor of KUL, participant in the Warsaw Uprising and a great intercessor of Central and Eastern Europe. I personally had the opportunity to get to know the work of the Institute in detail, as I participated in many initiatives, meetings and conferences. The Institute of Central and Eastern Europe is a centre of people working with passion. He was and continues to be an outstanding, exemplary individual, carrying out all the tasks necessary for the proper development of relations between nations. I do not know, I do not read any rational justification, I repeat: no rational justification for the liquidation of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe. I could not attend yesterday's first reading in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, because at the same time there was a debate in the Committee on Public Finance, which I am a member, but tonight I listened to the whole recording of the meeting of the Committee on Education. There was not a single positive opinion in this debate on the liquidation of the institute and the establishment of a new existence, and the minister himself, the project's initiator, did not even count the money. The project of the new institute surprised everyone, not only the current authorities of the institute, with which no consultations were carried out, as did other organisations in the social sphere. Preparing this project without consultation, imposing a completely unjustified rush in the debate on the project, directing the project to first reading in the committee, which took place last night, and today hastily debating and reading in the plenary room - this only proves one thing: the intentions of the government on this subject are not pure. The current Institute of Central and Eastern Europe is essentially one thing missing: adequate for the work of financial resources. And the funds proposed in the project are naive moms, that this project is a good change. The research capacity and the scope of the tasks of a well-functioning institute can be enhanced without being wound up by providing the resources necessary to carry out these tasks. During the work of the committee, the PiS Members did not allow any substantive amendment that would give objective sense to this project. Amendments concerning the appointment of persons by means of a competition were rejected, and no change was accepted concerning the requirement of higher education, at least doctoral title, as director of the Institute. The most worrying, however, is that it is not about improving anything in a well-functioning unit, but it is only about introducing people, new people, their own. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I am applying, Mr. Marshal, to reject this project in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Joanna Schmidt will now speak. There is no Member. We're going to ask questions. Three Members have come forward. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act removes the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe and establishes the establishment of the Institute of Central Europe in its place. Through analytical research, the new institute is to support government policy on the implementation of cooperation with Central European countries. I have a few brief questions about the bill being processed. Firstly, how much will the personal composition of the research institute change after the liquidation and the creation of a new unit? Will the budget of the new institute be greater than the existing one? What does revenue from other titles calculated in the Act as providing the entity's budget in the form of revenue mean? If possible, please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the government. I would like to ask if the current name of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe is not better, more appropriate to what the Institute is supposed to do. The Institute of Central Europe is losing in the name of the East, which is contrary to its scope of tasks. The second question: Isn't the current project another human resources bill - in my opinion? In fact, it is introduced only to exempt people employed there by law. I'm reading the article exactly. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 3, which reads: Labour relations with employees expire 3 months after the date of entry into force of the Act if they are not offered new working conditions and wages before 2 months after the date of entry into force of the Act. And third question: Why didn't he take part in the debate on the project - and I think he's not here today - from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Does the MFA have a separate, different opinion on this subject than the head of KPRM? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u157	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Pyzik, club of the Polish People's Party. [[Wait, Jesus Christ!]] Law and Justice. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! I ask you to kindly correct this fact. My hair's stopped. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I say I, Piotr Pyzik, Member of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The idea of creating a scientific unit in the form of an institute, which would be an important factor in building the ideal, political and internal relations of the Tri-Morch initiative, is absolutely right. However, I propose that the catalogue of tasks submitted to the Institute should be accompanied in an unambiguous form by the translation and popularization of the Polish geopolitical achievements and the collection and translation of such achievements of the other countries of the Triad. I am convinced that without the synthesis of these achievements, without some kind of merger of political culture and the point of view of the representative countries of Central Europe, the real foundations of the alliance we are building will be much weaker. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Liberal Social Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 describes the requirements to be met by the person acting as Director. Why is there no higher requirement for education or knowledge of foreign languages? What is the result of my assessment of the mild requirements to act as director of the Institute? The next question concerns Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which in turn contains information about the composition of the council. It is mentioned that it will be 7 members with a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, a representative of the Ministry responsible and a 5-member board appointed for the term of office. Question: "Who will these people be?" How will they be called? Who will they be, and will they be rewarded? If so, how high? Another question. I finally got a look at the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 which provides a description of the financial implications for the budget for the period 2019 to 2028. I would like to ask what results in such a large increase in the years to come. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In that case, please state in writing what actions are planned for these years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u161	Thank you very much. The answer will now be given by Minister Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to apologize for being late. I was very late informed about the speeding up of the session. Now I will go to the next questions of the ladies and parliamentarians. As for the question that Małgorzata Płępek asked, as far as the institution's personal condition is concerned, I would like to inform you that this is a forward-looking task, calculated over the years. Well, optimally, when it comes to personal composition, it would be to increase it to 40 people, but I find it hard to tell when it will be achieved. Will the budget be bigger? Of course it'll be bigger. According to 2017 data, the Institute on the revenue side had around 1300 thousand. zł, now the upper limit of expenditure for 2019 is set at PLN 4 million. These are the budget expenditures for the institute. That's the upper limit. That's right, but, uh... [[It's wasteful.]] It's not wasteful. In view of the poor financial and organisational situation of the Institute, these actions are necessary. These funds are already earmarked for this, they are already secured in the draft budget law for 2019 on which ladies and gentlemen will proceed in the near future. What is income from other titles? - you asked Mrs. Navel. Art. 16 - they are enumerated here. For example, financial resources from Union funds, national and international research programmes, revenues from the institute's economic activities, interest on funds collected in bank accounts can be indicated here. I move on to Mrs Genowefa Tokarska's questions. She asked why she disappeared from the name of the East. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. Currently, under the supervision of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, two symmetrical research institutions operate in some way. It is the Centre for Eastern Studies and the Western Institute. In order to close this system and to cover the operation of this system, the countries of Poland's immediate environment, we transform the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe into the Institute of Central Europe. And if you read into the provisions on the tasks of the institute, which are described in the draft law that we are investigating today, you will see that this is just a change in title, because there is nothing to prevent the new entity, which, of course, is based on an existing entity, from dealing with the issues of Central and Eastern Europe. As regards the termination of employment in the event of not proposing new conditions or not adopting new conditions, this is a solution that is quite standard in these types of laws and it is difficult to talk about a specific solution here. Why didn't a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs speak in the debate on this project? Dear Member, this project was proceded by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, in which a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participates. He made no comments to this draft, no objections, so the project should be considered as agreed with the Ministry. Mrs Schmidt asked about educational requirements. Well, they're set at a higher master's level. This greatly increases flexibility. It may turn out that a specialist with many years of experience, also e.g. in the foreign service, there is no doctoral degree, so it is difficult to limit the decision-making of the President of the Council of Ministers. As far as the composition of the board is concerned, I would just like to remind - the board of the institute, of course - that the basic criterion for the appointment of members of the board is described here in the article. 14 The fact that there is a distinction between knowledge and professional experience in the field of the Institute's tasks, which are laid down in the Act, i.e. the President of the Council of Ministers, appointing members of the Council, must be governed by this basic criterion. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! As far as my explanations are concerned, that's pretty much it. Please accept the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u163	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I joined the committee on this project, it was hard for me to resist the impression that I had dealt with something like this before. Indeed, at the beginning of this term of office, the public opinion shocked the jump on research institutes, which under the pretext of reform were completely subordinated to the governing party. Is that how it is this time? To whom and what is this project to serve? In his explanatory statement we read that the establishment of the institute is the answer to the idea developed by the Polish government of the Tri-Morch. We read that: The Tri-Morrh Project is currently one of the strategic projects of the Government of the Republic of Poland in the field of foreign policy. I would like to ask how much this idea is needed in Poland at all. How crucial should it not be for foreign policy to set up or strengthen bodies specialising in European issues at this point? The opinions of experts on the Tri-marriage are divided. They point out that the government was about showing some success in foreign policy, in which - let's agree - failure dominates. There are also voices that such an initiative does not serve to strengthen the EU but to share it. And in the softest version, it's just unnecessary for anyone. Therefore, my question at the beginning is a little broader: What is the result of the implementation of the idea of the Tri-marriage by the Polish government, and what is the benefit of this as citizens at present? Traditionally, the rules on the bodies of the new institute are already in doubt. Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 describes the requirements to be met by the person acting as Director. Why is there no higher degree required in terms of education or knowledge of foreign languages? What is the result of such a mild requirement in my assessment to act as director of the Institute? Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 contains information on the composition of the board. It is mentioned that it will be seven members, with the participation of the President of the Council of Ministers, a representative of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and five appointed for the term of office. I would like to ask you to clarify who these five appointed for the term of office are. Who are they gonna be? Secondly, will the members of the council pay for this, and if so, how much? Finally, looking at the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 which describes the financial implications for the budget in 2019 and 2028, I would like to ask: What is the result of such a significant increase in the financial resources foreseen for the Institute's activities? Over a period of almost 10 years, budget expenditure is projected to increase more than threefold. The questions I have mentioned and the doubts make it very cautious and sceptical that we, as Liberal Socialists, approach the bill on the Institute of Central Europe and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u165	In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this project back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws (prints No. 2861 and 2951). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Education Law and the Law on the system of education and other laws contained in print No 2861. The Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy discussed the draft law at its meeting on 25 October. 44 amendments were tabled in the course of this project, 41 of which were accepted, 3 were rejected. The vast majority of the amendments were orderly, resulting from the principles of correct legislation. The Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u167	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Kryj on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Neither does the Member. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15. There isn't any either. Katarzyna Lubnauer or Marek Sowa from the Modern Club. They're not here either. Mr Krystian Jarubas. There isn't either. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni. [[I'm here.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Education Law and the Law on the Education System and other laws after the stage of work on this project in committee. The process on this project in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth was accompanied by a general outrage of the total opposition. Contrary to many voices, it is not a law made to anger the opposition, teachers or students. This project is intended to contribute to the fact that in a few years we will have fewer deficits and better trained staff in Poland, and this should be in the interest of all of us. I have already mentioned, when I first read, that professional education was finally properly addressed and put into development. I do not need to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that successful vocational schools are a well-exploited potential of young people. It is the industry schools that prepare specialists to meet the needs of the modern labour market. After all, it is these young people who will make the Polish economy able to grow dynamically. Nobody has so radically reformed vocational education, which must respond to the challenges posed by Polish and European labour markets. Once again, I stress that the changes aimed at placing a great deal of emphasis on improving the competences of the teaching staff of vocational subjects, strengthening the role of employers in vocational training and introducing compulsory examinations in vocational schools are a step in the right direction. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the draft law on which the committee was prosecuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u169	Thank you very much. Now Mr Marek Owa, on behalf of the Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present our club's position towards the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Education Law and the Law on the system of education and other laws. The main objective of the project is to rebuild vocational education, the prestige of this education and to adapt the vocational training system to the needs of modern economy, which is to take place from the 2019/2020 school year. The proposed bill generally goes in the right direction, although it seems that the proposed changes could be more radical. It is difficult to disagree with the statement by the authors of the law that vocational training alongside higher education has the greatest impact on the preparation of modern staff for the Polish economy. The introduction of organisational and legal changes will contribute to the development of education that responds to the needs of individual sectors, increase the impact of employees of companies and companies' organisations on the functioning of vocational training, as well as the promotion of vocational education among pupils and their parents. I have personal experience in the implementation of such a project in 2010 and 2015 with implementation, reconstruction of really vocational education in Małopolska. At the time, these European funds were considerable, because we allocated PLN 170 million. We could not put these measures in place so that they would become part of the educational system, which was a huge obstacle. We had to say, on the basis of courses, expand our educational offer, and we could not introduce this money to form an integral part. This, of course, makes it difficult to carry out such activities to a large extent. However, it must be said very clearly that this gave good results, and I invite you to the competition Festival in Małopolska. For many years we have been implementing this project and it seems to me that it is really well implemented. All secondary schools, all junior high schools have so far been covered by this project. And without a doubt, this project increases flexibility. In my deep conviction, especially the stricte practical professions should be brought out of school, but this is my subjective feeling. I believe that then this staff training would be at an even higher level, because young people would have the possibility, so to speak, of learning literally based on the technologies that exist in the various sectors. On the other hand, what is worth noticing is - as I said, this is a long experience - the involvement of entrepreneurs, schools of patronage. It's been expanding a lot in recent years. From my seven to eight years of experience, this mechanism is worth applying. Without a doubt, the proposed law increases flexibility and provides hope for more effective education, which is why this project will, of course, be supported by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u171	Thank you very much. You didn't quite keep your end of the bargain, sir. [[I'm sorry, I've been talking too much.]] Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska. I would also like a brief statement. [[Good.]] You didn't come in at the right time, so I'm asking you to fit in in three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u172	I'll try to shorten the performance, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the project we are talking about today is unfortunately an example - I am sorry to say - of bad legislation, because the government is sending a project to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, to which it introduces more than 40 amendments. Together with the legislative amendments, these are several dozen amendments. And let me remind you that this is a very important, important matter for education. There is a child in the center of education, so it should be treated in a very serious way. I understand that the government wants to continue the good practices of the Civic Platform and PSL coalition, which paid attention to the reconstruction of vocational education in Poland. Let me remind you that since 2008, i.e. the professional school period, we are talking about a professional school as a positive choice, which is why we encourage young people to go to this school. Let me remind you that this is reflected in the revised education system law. At secondary school level, significant amendments have been made by law since 1 September 2012. Unfortunately, in the amendment presented by the Ministry, the State focused mainly on the change of nomenclature. There are few other changes that have been made. As I say, there are, of course, continued certain practices that we have introduced, which is why here we do not have a lot of negative opinions on this issue. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I see that this is mainly a procedure, as I said, PR-owski, because unfortunately you have not allocated additional resources to implement this law. Let me remind you that, now, for every dollar that the government transfers to education, local governments pay 44 gr, and in the case of small, poor local governments, this reduces resources for other tasks that are assigned to these local governments. I will also remind you that they received about PLN 600 million for educational tasks, so if you add additionally this task, there will be even less money. Self-governments also received 2/3 of the funds due for children with disabilities. Let me remind you, there's 195,000. such children. You have not secured these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the support of this law - in accordance with the Marshal's agreement I will try to shorten it - is dependent on the support of our three amendments, which I will pass on to the Marshal in a moment. The first amendment will concern the rules for assessing teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, these principles are very critical of teachers. You are well aware of that. Both trade unions, both the ZNP and the teacher's solidarity, are critical of this. Why? Because the criteria are unclear, because you differentiate the environment, you cause aversion in the environment to these records. I do not know why you still insist, as Minister Machalek said during the committee meeting, that you will introduce this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u173	Thank you very much, Member. You're late.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u174	...to rehearse for a year. Why destroy teachers for a year? Second amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u175	Make an amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u176	Mr. Marshal, just a little bit. The second amendment concerns sick leave and the third concerns manuals.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u177	Thank you very much, Member. You didn't come forward at the right time. Mr Andrzej Kryj. You have three minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u178	Good. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many times during the session of the Sejm it was emphasized that the preparation of highly qualified staff is crucial to ensure good conditions for the development of the modern Polish economy. The fact that companies are increasingly struggling to find workers with appropriate qualifications shows how important this problem is. The ManpowerGroup report published in July 2018 entitled "School of students" announces that the problem of finding highly qualified workers is reported by more than half of Polish companies, including as many as 75% The big ones. On the other hand, as much as 40% graduates of vocational schools could not find employment last year due to a mismatch in the offer of schools to meet the needs of the labour market and insufficient conditions for apprenticeships. So employers need workers, but they expect them to be well-educated, well prepared to perform their duties. Graduates want to be so well educated as to get a job. Today's draft law is essentially in line with these expectations. The aim of the changes is to ensure that everyone is satisfied with vocational training so that everyone can feel satisfied after graduating from school and going to work. It is worth emphasising the fact that various actors, such as employers, school heads, school heads, teachers and ministers of various national departments, will work together in this area. It is also important that the changes that are being made are gaining a very strong financial basis, as the leading authorities will receive an increased educational subsidy for those students who will be educated in professions for which there is a higher demand for the labour market. Employers expect school graduates not only to be equipped with theoretical knowledge, but also to know the specifics of work in their companies. This will be possible thanks to the internships proposed in this Act, which students will be taking. These traineeships will benefit everyone, because the student will gain specific skills, while the employer will be able to include the cost of cash benefits in the cost of obtaining income. Teachers will be able to learn through organized professional internships in companies. It is also worth noting that not only professional matters are standardized in this law, but also many other issues. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote for this law because it is a good law, but that does not mean that what is good can not be better. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to make legislative and order amendments to the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas. You didn't come in at the right time either. Three minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u180	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws, prints no. 2861 and 2951. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's draft amendment to the Education Law applies to a large extent to vocational education. In the justification of the project we read that the aim is to rebuild the prestige of vocational training in Poland. It's hard to agree with that slogan. However, the problem is credibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Changes, which in our assessment contributed to the destruction of vocational training in Poland, took place in 1998 and 1999, i.e. at the time when AWS was in power. Today, many of her representatives are at the PiS. What's that? First you broke it, now you want to fix it. And maybe it would still be virulent if it weren't for the fact that we've been dealing with one of these situations quite recently. The analogy to education reform, the elimination of secondary education and its effects, which are already recognised by parents and teachers. Total chaos and accumulation of yearbooks are the consequences of the liquidation of junior high schools, which, as I will remind you, were advocated by AWS politicians. So how can we trust you today, ladies and gentlemen, when we listen to Prime Minister Morawiecki? How can I trust you when we're reading your political message from the last election campaign? According to the government's proposal for an amendment on vocational education, local authorities will receive a higher education subsidy for pupils in vocational education, for which there is a higher labour market demand as indicated in the forecast of labour demand in professional education. A new criterion has also been introduced for the distribution of educational subsidies, which consists in the differentiation of the amounts to be fixed for pupils in vocational training in professional education professions of a unique nature. It all sounds beautiful, but the words of the prominent PiS activists who have recently fallen are shadowed by the writings of this novel, whether you like it or not. Therefore, I ask: Will the distribution of funds and subsidies be as you said in the campaign, or will it be as Minister Kwieciński said, that he will only give to the bridge when the PiS wins, or as Prime Minister Morawiecki says, that the money will be for those who work well with the government, and of course he meant PiS locals? If so, will this law, instead of repairing, hurt, once again divide Poland, this time schools, into a better and worse sort? I ask because your earlier statements show that you are capable of all evil, dear rulers. I also wonder if you are aware that rebuilding what buried AWS is a long and tedious process, because it may turn out that there will be a shortage of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the shorter time, I have to shorten my speech a little bit. I have another question: Has the draft amendment been consulted with the craftsmen? We still have one in Poland. They even have a trade union. The question arises because of experience with previous laws without consultation and participation of experts. One thing is certain: industry schools are needed in Poland, so we will not interfere with their reconstruction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u181	Thank you very much, sir. I'm closing this part of the discussion. Seven Members have asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. Mr Piotr Pyzik, first Member of the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy? [[I'm here, I'm here.]] There it is. This is the Member who confuses the clubs. No, I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of restoring high-level schools that pass on professional knowledge and skills is burning not only for the economy but also for social reasons. In my parliamentary work I met many people who started, mostly at a young age, working in large corporations, and after years they decided to abandon this form of professional activity and invest in their own practical profession. What may seem surprising to consumers of mass culture, most of these people express the view that thanks to such a decision he leads a happy life, has time for his family, feels satisfaction with the work done, and the material status of these people has not deteriorated or even improved. I ask the applicant's representative - this is my request, maybe not the question - that apart from the creation of an appropriate vocational education system or according to the new nomenclature: the sectoral emphasis should also be placed on promoting the history of the people I mentioned. It's the best way to restore prestige, for example. work of craftsman - see A happy family of carpenters or locksmiths who chose this profession, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even though he's worked at this before...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u183	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u184	...like an IT guy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u185	Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For once, the PiS decided to use good practices, models, recognising the role of vocational education. It was the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL that started the process to restore the proper role of vocational schooling. Good programs were created, school workshops were equipped, school cooperation with local entrepreneurs was initiated. Self-governments introduce dual education. In my home town of Radom, for example, the program is piloted by the city authorities, the Chamber of Industry and Commerce of Radom Land and the metal cluster. 16 companies, 500 students - this is already happening, ladies and gentlemen. Students take classes practically directly from their employer, in companies from Radom and surroundings. As a result, young people learn the future profession in practice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what will make them good professionals in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u187	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mrs Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Textbooks to primary schools are evaluated by a special team appointed by the Minister of Education. All approved textbooks get grants. For what reason did the Ministry withdraw from the opinion of the manuals for vocational education by such a special team? Is that some kind of savings? I think that textbooks for vocational school are as important as those used in other educational stages. The publishers protest, the unions protest. Please explain the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u190	Minister! I would like to raise two points, ask two questions, Minister Machalek. Firstly, Minister, please explain to us - and I would very much ask you to answer this question, because this is an important question for many teachers who are constantly addressing me - why you are creating such unclear criteria for assessing teachers, why they are so diverse and discretionary, why you share this environment. Tell me why you insisted on meeting the Education Committee to test these criteria for one more year, which have been misjudged by teachers and both trade unions since the beginning. That's my first question. Second question, Minister: How much do you intend to allocate to this amendment specifically, which is how much do you intend to allocate to industry education? Because I have a sad observation that you are unfortunately giving new responsibilities to local governments, and you are not giving the funds. That's why I'm asking you to give me a specific amount. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns Polish teachers. Changing the school from the Polish School to the Polish School is a good change, while it would also be good to change the promotion of Polish teachers, social workers, volunteers working hard on two jobs. But this change, if I read correctly, at least one path, through internships is to enter into force in 2021. Then why talk about them now if it's three years from now? Was it just a pre-election gesture? And if you don't, please explain why it is. The second question concerns the second path, because there is, if I understand it correctly, also the possibility for the minister to promote himself after 15 or 20 years. Will this provision also enter into force in 2021, or is it now? And finally, the conclusion. There are no regulations. This is not a well-prepared bill if there are no regulations. But I'm not asking a question here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] These laws are often prepared this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u193	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u194	Two questions, please answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u195	... Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u196	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government proposal for a law amending the Education Law and the Law on the system of education and other laws finally gives the possibility to rebuild the prestige of vocational training in Poland by improving the quality and efficiency of education in schools and vocational training institutions. Minister, will the changes proposed in the Act be well received by employers who have problems with the acquisition of skilled workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition Members said here that we have assigned tasks to local governments, and we do not give money for it. I will allow you to disagree with this, after all, the local authorities have gained very much from the implementation of the 500+ programme, because they have received money for its implementation, they have gained money under subsidies for six-year-olds. And these examples I can give a lot. I have been involved in education all my life, working in school and in local government, and I know what it was like to order jobs without money to local governments a few or several years ago. And certainly not by the government of law and justice. Minister, I have a question for you. In this draft law there are provisions favorable for craftsmen, for entrepreneurs, for the leading bodies, which are about to gain money for the fact that they will implement the provisions of the law. Would you please explain the benefits of this so that the Members of the opposition can finally understand it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u199	Thank you very much. I am closing the list of Members. I now ask the floor of the State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u200	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! It is good that around this law and educational law, as well as many other laws, there is a substantive discussion. In most cases this is a substantive discussion, because the issue is very complex, important and necessary. And now, on the one hand, I hear that perhaps this amendment is going too shallow, on the other hand, that there are still some amendments to it. I'll tell you why and if there's money. Maybe I'll start with the situation where it's mentioned here, that on the one hand we're introducing something, which is a continuation, and on the other hand, that not everything is included in this bill. Indeed, there were two phases of vocational training collapse in Poland. It is worth recalling the period after 1989 that because of liquidation, sale of assets, sale of workplaces, the fall of many industries, from heavy to light industry, there has been liquidation of schools, schools, and general education. The second such avalanche of the fall in vocational training is, I agree, 1999, the reform of Handke, actually later inconsistently introduced at different moments, which actually led to the fact that the number of people studying in the profession has decreased. There were cities that could, but didn't open vocational schools or technical schools at all. In a word, we woke up at a certain point and it turned out that there were no schools, no professionals. In fact, at the moment there is a situation that I found in the Ministry, that when spending 9 billion of public money, including 7 billion subsidies and 2 billion, which are infrastructure money of other resorts, basic vocational schools, because then not yet professional, and technology educates 30% of the unemployed, 40% - vocational schools. 9 billion and, on the other hand, low educational efficiency. Indeed, an attempt was made in 2011 and some changes were made, but these changes were very shallow and unfortunately had one feature: employers did not take part in these changes. I'm talking to those who refer to these changes. We do not criticize them that they were introduced, only they were introduced inconsistently. Please take a look at the BAS opinion, to this draft law, where it was said that certain things were, but there was no cooperation with employers and they did not have specific results. Therefore, the situation that we have to deal with is the rapid repair of vocational training and the linking of these changes with legal provisions which will make vocational training really linked to the labour market, and will also be a very important element of social and economic development. This is very clearly enshrined in the strategy for responsible development. Hence the first change which was prepared by Minister Wargock, then me, and at the moment we continue this together. I am glad that these changes are not really critical. These changes have actually been adopted in committee with one vote against. I think we should focus on this and think about what should be the essence of this change. As far as consultations are concerned, within a year - because it is a year since we started conducting a very broad consultation on what needs to be changed, with employers, local governments and schools - we have conducted several trade seminars. The conclusions of these industry seminars were used to write this law. We finished our seminars in January. There were the foundings of this law, and then we translated it into law. This is why there are still clarification amendments. This is really complicated matter. We don't touch one bill. We touch many laws which at this point are related to completely different resorts. Therefore, consultation and clarification of the provisions are ongoing until the end. That's good, because we want these changes to have such a finite form from the legal and financial side. Thank you for doing this job all the time. Those Members who bring these ideas and changes and read this law in very detail, not only the beginning of the justification, thank you very much for that. Is that little and what we thought was the essence of this change? First of all, looking at the experiences of European countries that have well-functioning vocational training... But what does it mean that they have well-functioning vocational training? This does not mean that they have more vocational training. We've got 55%. young people in technology and primary and vocational schools. There's probably even 2% in Germany. less. On the other hand, we teach inefficiently, ineffectively, wrongly. In principle, preparation for vocational training should already take place at the level of vocational guidance in kindergartens. It is about studying predispositions, targeting young people, but not closing their way, at the elementary school stage, and then, at the industrial or technical school stage, helping to develop these learning paths. In addition, this education should be so linked to the labour market and flexible as to enable students to acquire other skills, other competences to help them find themselves in the labour market. On the one hand, we are introducing the necessary legal link between school and the labour market, with the employer - but we are still making it soft, because schools need to get used to it - and on the other hand we are very clear... Here it was said that it would be good if the education was only with the employer. It could be at the employer's. Today, employers can start schools and this education can be with the employer. We have also made a wide campaign on this subject. Little employers can't afford it. Those big ones want to have a school that teaches to a certain extent, in this school, which is next door and is able to finance vocational training, training for a profession, are able to finance schooling or take up and educate themselves. We have very little practical activities, practical training in techniques. Hence the introduction of student traineeships, which in principle can be paid. This is an absolute novel, finding the legal formula for this was not easy. This is one of the things we bring in. We also introduce such a thing as professional teacher training, because it often happens that for many years or even decades, the teacher has no contact with the employer in the profession he teaches - in terms of theory or practical training of the profession. Of course, those who really have contact with their employer are fired. These are very important changes. We couldn't imagine going any further, because something is causing this number of young people with the lowest unemployment rate in three decades, although it is, I'm sorry for the expression, sucking on the labour market. This means that we have actually taught wrongly, ineffectively, without linking to the labour market. But we also need to see the future: what we need today... In five years, this reality will look different. This is why we are introducing new mechanisms in terms of what the programme basis is, what the regulation on professional classification is. We make it more consistent, we make these programming documents easier to read. But most importantly, employers are already involved in the programming of education. More than 1000 employers were currently involved in the consultation on the programming basis and the drafting of this law. Is everyone perfectly satisfied? No, but we were listening to employers, including in the field of crafts. That is why, at the last meeting, at first reading, we made the right changes. It's really hard to put in a professional exam, which, first of all, to check it out, is a guarantee that someone who finishes school, passes a professional exam, has a professional certificate... The point is for an employer to know that it's worth paying attention to. When I started working on it, most employers told me that they didn't need a certificate, a certificate before, because it's not really related to the program basis, nor does it give away the real skills of the student. We're changing that. Very detailed are the criteria for verification. We're making the system more coherent. The employer is in writing the basics of the curriculum, namely the programming of education, but we also make it available for examination, because only such a coherent and common education system can repair vocational training, vocational training. Of course, it is very important, and I will also say in quotes, the disappointment of education, the restoration of prestige. The point is that it's worth going to professional school, but it's also worth it because it's a good school, after which there's a good profession that actually prepares a young man for the future, and on the other hand he doesn't close anything, that is, a young man can continue to educate himself. Hence the introduction of the second degree professional school. We also show that a tech school is a very difficult school, we know how few students who start a tech school finish, finish with an exam. We give them the opportunity, above all, through advice. The young man goes to technical school, knows what he will learn, knows that he will be focused on vocational training, where the professional certificate is treated - and teaching vocational subjects - as an extension, as an additional subject, if he has such a wish. We want to increase the prestige at any time of vocational training. I still think it's consistent that the post-tech exam should be taken into account when recruiting for higher education. We want you to actually... We see this trend: Poles have confidence in technicians, smaller in industry schools. And it's important to create encouragement. So we increase the wage rates for young workers, we increase as a government, that's a very important thing. It is not enough that we introduce this mandatory entry into exams so that there is no situation where young people are encouraged not to pass the exams so that the school does not show whether it teaches the professions effectively or not. We also provide supervision of education, practical training of the employer's profession, so that it is not so that in some places this training does not meet the relevant criteria. There is a very complicated change, which also supports vocational schools - we have changes in taxes, in donations, very many moments are moving here, ending with the differentiation of this subsidy. 7 billion must be effective in training in those professions that are in demand. Where he's trained in competitions. Just because there are teachers and you don't need a special base, there really isn't money well spent because they don't give anything to young people. It really was almost a year of discussion with employers and teachers, we set up a Board of Professional Schools Directors, we are in very close contact with employers. Is this the perfect change? No, because it is important to be aware that vocational training and the economy are changing and that all of this needs to be open. Therefore, there are lighter forms of education, we allow schools to conduct these forms of education, the course of professional skills. There are many really important changes, it is worth reading into them. Of course, Mr. Marshal, I could discuss very detailed questions that were there, but I'd have to have ten more minutes. But it seems to me that if...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u201	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u202	I understand, Marshal. So I think if someone reads the justification exactly, and it's probably even an easy language to write, what we're really changing... I want to assure you that money is spent on vocational training, they are large, but we also believe that today there is another reason to reach for money from the Labour Fund. The Labour Fund is funded by changes in vocational education, because today we are not fighting... We solve labour market problems. Their solution is not that we are fighting unemployment, but that we want to properly, effectively prepare young people for work, prepare for entry into the labour market, solve problems of lack of workers. And that's why everyone who's involved in this job, very hard, very laborious, very intricate, thank you very much, because I think - and I'm glad - that maybe not everyone is able to tell you that there is one criticism of this project. When it comes to evaluating the teacher's work, because it's still here -- I can't answer all the questions -- that's what we talked about...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u203	Minister, time is passing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u204	...we're gonna be looking into this and if it turns out we're gonna have to make a modification of these rules, of course. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u205	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u206	...for cooperation and...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u207	...Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u209	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u210	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In 1994 the concept of a practical training centre was developed, adopted by the Ministry of National Education. According to this model, practical training centres began to be established throughout Poland. All institutions with the title of the word "the centre of practical education" reflect the beautiful assumptions from the beginning of the 20th century, when the concept of manualism, which was created by Władysław Przanowski, was exposed. Many institutions and educational institutions then had the word "practical education." The theory of manualism has exposed the processes of practical training, the formation of manual skills. Currently, these processes correspond perfectly with the objectives of development of vocational education in Poland, it is about practical training in companies, practical training in educational centers, practical training in vocational schools. The centre of practical training therefore includes in its name what is most important for modern vocational school, which should respond to the needs of the labour market and cooperate with the labour market. The aim of the practical training centre is to develop the practical skills of vocational and pre-vocational pupils. Good technical and teaching equipment of practical training centers can also be excellent for improving teachers' skills - such solutions operate in Poland. I am therefore surprised at the proposal to change the name of the centre of practical training to the centre of vocational training. If we have a category of institutions called a practical training centre, we should protect this name, as it is a signpost for the process of shaping practical skills. The change of name in my opinion is unfounded. Other educational establishments may be included in practical training centres, or they may be linked to practical training centres. The change of name is unnecessary financial costs and a misunderstood attempt to eliminate from the information circulation what is of particular value: practical training. Why are there such records in the project? What's that supposed to do? What are the costs of the facilities? What's the reason for the name change? I will ask you to respond to my written statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u211	We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act... Oh, indeed, to refer this to the committee, because there are amendments tabled. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production (prints No. 2914 and 2949). I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee. Are you an MP? There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u212	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present in print 2949 the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The original print of the project is print number 2914. The Committee on Public Finances at its meeting on 25 October this year. She considered the bill I mentioned. This project is mainly aimed at strengthening Polish agricultural producers and breeders by e.g. increase the limit on diesel consumption per hectare of agricultural crops and introduce a limit on the consumption of diesel for one large cattle conversion unit. The Commission adopted legislative amendments and one amendment setting a time limit for the validity of the existing implementing rules until 31 December 2019. The amendments introduced in this Act are mainly intended to increase the limit on the consumption of diesel per hectare of agricultural crops and to introduce a limit on the consumption of diesel for one large cattle conversion unit in the case of a farmer's holding or rearing of bovine animals to which part of the excise duty included in the price of the fuel purchased for that production may be refunded. Due to the increase in production costs at low prices of agricultural products, changes are being made which result from the need to increase the competitiveness of Polish agricultural holdings on the EU market. Increasing quality requirements and technological standards in agricultural production and animal production contribute to increasing fuel demand and energy carriers for heating, lighting or adequate energy for different equipment and machinery. According to the studies, the average consumption of diesel used for agricultural production per hectare of agricultural land is equal to 82 and 138 l per hectare, respectively. On the other hand, the average consumption of diesel used for livestock farming or livestock farming per large conversion unit of cattle is at the level of 30 and 105 l. Therefore, the draft law adopts the consumption of diesel used for agricultural production at just 100 l per hectare of agricultural land and 30 l per large unit of cattle conversion. In the Act on which we are currently proceeding, we propose that the limit be set as a product of the rate of refund of excise duty per litre of diesel and the number 30, which is an indicator of the consumption of diesel for livestock farming and the average annual number of large units of conversion of bovine animals held by the agricultural producer in the year preceding the year of the application for excise duty refund. The draft law also amended the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 laws. In accordance with the new wording of this provision, the agricultural producer applying for excise duty on the use of diesel in livestock farming will be required to add to the application for the refund of a certain document issued by the head of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture with an average annual number of large units for the conversion of bovine animals on his holding, determined taking into account the conversion factors for bovine animals into large conversion units, as set out in the Annex to the Act, as at the end of each month of the year preceding the year of submission of the application for reimbursement. This information shall be drawn up for each herd of bovine animals held by the agricultural producer at its head office on the basis of the data contained in the livestock register marked by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. During the discussion at the committee meeting, practically everyone stressed the need for the proposals put forward, which is why, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request that the report be adopted, i.e. in print No.2949, the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duties contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u213	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Jerzy Gosievski, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u214	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, [[Voice from the room: You've already said everything.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the 2949 report of the Public Finance Commission on the draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Accordingly, I presented the purpose, manner and scope of the amendments in the report on the work of the Committee on Public Finance. Due to the increase in production costs at low prices of agricultural products, we are introducing changes which result from the need to increase the competitiveness of Polish agricultural holdings on the EU market. The height of the increased limit, as I explained earlier, was determined on the basis of appropriate studies. The confirmation of the data in the declaration of the agricultural producer and breeder will be carried out by a well-tested institution, which is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the 2949 report of the Committee on Public Finance, the proposed changes will help farmers and farmers by reducing the cost of agricultural production and thus increase the competitiveness of Polish farms on the European Union market. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law in the committee's report amending the excise duty refund law contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u215	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform to give an opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, prints No. 2914 and 2949. Dear Members, For years the agricultural environment, farmers have been demanding that the actual consumption of diesel per hectare in agricultural production be realised due to rising production costs, at low prices for agricultural products which farmers obtain when selling them. The share of fuel costs in total production costs increases from year to year. For example, as at 2 November 2018, the price in Wielkopolska and other regions was at an average level of PLN 5.28 per 1 l, and the very worrying information from the stock exchanges said that the prices are to oscillate within PLN 5.86 per 1 litre of diesel. Even in February of this year diesel cost PLN 4,60, 4.50 and in November 2015, when you took over power, I apologize: in December, it cost PLN 4,28, so this increase is exactly 1 PLN per l. These factors include: affect the non-profitability of production, also intensifying plant and animal production, increasing quality and technological standards for milk production, as well as safety, lead to higher costs. In the draft law, the government proposed to increase the limit from 86 l to 100 l per hectare of diesel and to 30 l to a large conversion unit in cattle production. Dear Members, The above proposals give only 14 l more and with excise duty, which we do not know yet, approx. 1 zł, 14 zł per 1 ha plus cattle producers, milk if they have agricultural land and are entitled to do so. In the government justification of the R &amp; D units, the Institute of Economics, Agriculture and Food Economy as a state institute in Warsaw, the Institute of Cultivation, Fertilization and Soil Science - a state institute in Puławy, gave an expert opinion which provides the limits of 82 l and 138 l per 1 ha and 30 l per 1 ha for large conversion units. I invite you to take note of the comments made by farmers and trade unionists of all agricultural sectors at today's agricultural committee meeting. They didn't leave dry thread on these proposals, not to mention vocabulary. I know from my own 35-year agricultural practice that this year. consumption amounted to 200 l per hectare, there was drought, but certainly the comments in the agriculture committee: 150, 180, 200 are accurate and true. Fuel price increase alone Only in the last 3 years gives increased costs from 130 to 200 PLN per 1 ha, and the government proposes 14 PLN, in kidnapping maybe 16 PLN. This is ridiculous. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club makes amendments increasing the limit to 120 l per hectare, which is not a satisfactory size for farmers, food producers, but more accurately reflects the actual average consumption given by research units at least. Mr. Marshal! This crazy increase, the giant increase in fuel costs that I've brought out, is overwhelming, because only 10%, and the river of money that you're talking about in the country, which I think is a myth, although it's going in the right direction with a turtle or a snail step. Mr. Marshal! Allow me to present the amendments of the Civic Platform club to the quoted bill amending the excise duty refund law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u217	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. There's no envoy. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Farmers today assessed this bill. I wonder who you're really doing it for, since farmers themselves didn't leave dry hair on this project. And rightly so, because really this project is a mockery of Polish agriculture. There are probably no more magicians than the Government of Law and Justice, which, I have emphasized for a few months now, on the one hand, does everything to ensure that the costs of any production, including agricultural production, in Poland increase, and on the other hand, the selected groups give some relief, which in fact do not even give up, do not cover the growth that they had previously given them. This bill is the best proof of what I've been saying for the last few months. The increase in fuel costs is, we know well, not only an increase in the price of a barrel, which none of us really have an impact on, but it is also a matter of government policy, because, for example, the fuel levy itself, which adds 10 gr to the price of l, charges producers both in agriculture and outside of agriculture, every company and every citizen who uses motor vehicles in everyday work, everyday life. This increase in fuel price this is just one small element that raises the costs of agricultural production in these difficult times, because in principle - farmers paid attention to it - if they look at recent years today, it can be seen that various types of costs, including electricity, water and gas charges, which were also paid to them by the Government of Law and Justice. As if this were not enough, we need to emphasise one more point: fuel or non-fuel costs, the increase in agricultural product prices is not only the result of the production of these products, but also the distribution and delivery of these products to the target customer. After all, if these costs also increase at later stages, not only at the stage of production itself, they are also distributed to some extent to farmers, transferred to them, for example in the sense that they get lower prices for their crops, because the final recipient does not want to pay more, and the final seller does not want to pay their profits, so that the same product will pay less to earn the same profit. It is a simple element, a simple mechanism, which is a pure element of the market game in the free market economy. You just don't want to understand it and you keep pretending that basically the increase in cost of life or production in Poland has nothing to do with the government policy you are running. In addition to those charges that you have added to the price of fuel, electricity, water or gas, we should mention the so-called. Cadastral tax on commercial real estate, which you introduced last year, for example. shall be paid from each warehouse and from each cold store where the agricultural products are stored. 'Cause if any fruit or vegetable goes into a cold store or a warehouse, and this warehouse or this cold store pays an extra tax, that's the cost of it. ultimately it is placed in a product that is stored there, which is in fact that tax is ultimately paid by either the citizen who buys these products or the producer who raises them. There is no other option, because every dollar that lands in the state budget comes from our pockets, possibly taxpayers' pockets, employers' or producers' pockets. And that is why these 14 zlotys from 1 ha, which today in those, as I said, very difficult conditions for agriculture, in very difficult years you offer farmers, have been ridiculed and treated by them today, in fact, like alms, which they do not want in such a form and in such a way, because they know well that from a global point of view, the cost-effectiveness of agricultural production in Poland is simply not going to change anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to thank, first of all, the rapporteur, Mr Gosievski, for so detailed his presentation of the rules for the operation of excise duty refund, because I have the impression that not only farmers, but above all Members have long forgotten that this is an old mechanism, and in some sense for each term has been corrected as much as the current governments, the current parliamentary majority has been able to afford. Now we're dealing with this small increase in funding... [[Minimum.]] ...to refund excise duty. I would also like to agree with most of the statements made by Mr Aichler. Minister, don't be surprised, and if I say so, you can always count on the ungratefulness of the opposition. As one of the opposition, I want to remind the entire opposition that the government is trying. The government is really trying, and you have to remember that. I promise to double the payments and implement it. Next year producers, although few, because only tomato producers, will have double subsidies. Appreciate it. The government is trying. After all, Minister Ardanowski not long ago on Jasna Góra promised drought aid to farmers, 1 000. zł to 1 ha, and this assistance is implemented. [[10%.]] Although few people benefit from this, most of them have 250 zlotys to 1 ha, but the few have 1 000. zł, so you really need to appreciate it. Finally, this government also noticed that animal production is important. I want to believe, Minister, that it is not because of the Minister's appreciation among animals only of cattle that, at the next stage, it will also be financial support for other animal species, in terms of excise duty drawback... of diesel, that this aid will be developed. So, given the real decline in farmers' incomes and the increase in costs... Although the CSO says that last year the farmers improved enormously, because income from the hectare increased by 800 PLN. [[Up to $3,000.]] But the opposition doesn't appreciate it. Farmers didn't even notice it, but the opposition should notice that the Central Statistical Office provided such information that these revenues even skyrocketed. So right now, you can't criticize that much, and you have to appreciate those good intentions. [[Farmers will appreciate it.]] It is necessary to thank for them, but hope that all promises, so to speak, pre-election, not necessarily in the third year, because this is completed only in the third year, and practically in the fourth year of rule, will be implemented slowly. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Polish People's Party supports this project. [[And the amendments?]] It will vote for it with the hope that there will be a little more of this, that costs, rising costs, including as a result of government policy, will be more compensated by the government to farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u221	Thank you very much, sir. Six Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. First Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The limit on the consumption of diesel per hectare of agricultural land covered by the excise duty refund will be increased. This is particularly important in years like this year, when there is virtually no farm in Poland, which would not be affected by drought. However, the environmental agricultural producers indicate that this increase should be adapted to the actual average consumption of diesel, i.e. 126 l of diesel per hectare. I would like to ask if such a solution was taken into account during the project process? Were there any analyses made? Can't you determine the real cost? It's easy to calculate. What the government is proposing is far from enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An increase in aid to farmers should be considered. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Platform Club. The Member doesn't have one. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u224	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask the question whether in previous years governments have increased this excise duty or increased the amount of agricultural fuel for a farmer per hectare. Somehow, as a farmer, I've never felt it, and they say we're so wrong, we're wrong. I have a question: Do you consider other animals in the future to add, as in the case of large cattle, this amount of fuel in the case of other animals, to ease and improve their production capacity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u225	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Food produced by Polish farmers must compete on the open European market, i.e. with products originating in those countries where the subsidy of agricultural production under EU policy is much higher. In this situation, farmers' incomes are falling, and their competitiveness towards their French or German colleagues is becoming increasingly illusory. I am pleased that Minister Ardanowski is making a series of courageous steps to save or even change this situation. The bill submitted is an excellent example of this. However, I would like to ask whether, in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, we are able to make up for the difference resulting from the inequality of direct payments in the European Union. And the second question: Is the issue of compensation as a priority in the negotiations on the new Union budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice shall listen to the voice of farmers. After many years of not reducing excise duty, return to farmers finally the government of Law and Justice, this good government, which is behind the Polish farmer, helps the Polish farmer and this return will be significant. I have a question for the Minister: Is this money from the budget? You could say they're from those VAT mobs whose money is being taken and put into the legal sphere. If the services of the Ministry of Finance continue to operate in such an efficient way, will the Minister think about increasing this return for farmers in the years to come? And last but not least, I'll tell Mr. Platform... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u229	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u230	...that oil is cheap. Since 2014, there has not been such a reduction as in today's global markets.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u231	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, Minister, I ask for a simple answer: Why do you not use it with full knowledge of fuel consumption per hectare? I repeat that many farmers, including legal entities, are on their knees today. Not because of its own fault - droughts and other market issues have bent these knees. There is a possibility to help, but after all 14, 16 PLN, Minister... Although this law goes in the right direction, as I said: the snail is rolling, everything should be adjusted to the scale of costs in the surroundings at a given time. I don't want to believe there's no money in the state budget because it's not that caliber case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u233	Thank you very much. We have closed the list of MEPs. Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk will speak at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that I would like to thank all the clubs and people speaking here for not having declared that they would vote against this law. That means it's a good bill. Of course, the opposition, and any Member, can say that not enough, but the possibilities of the budget - including those for 2019 - are so, not different. That's the way I'm gonna put it. And just 1180 million, which the Law and Justice government spends on subsidies... [[320 million.]] ... 320 extra. This is a significant increase. It's also important to remember that... Of course, we take account of production costs, they are growing, but there is also the 2013 European Union Directive and it clearly states how much we can pay for fuel. And we're limited here, too. We're paying the gold today, and it's actually that kind of money, not that kind of money. Therefore, this short speech I will conclude with the fact that it is, I believe, a good law which is going in the right direction. Of course, answering questions... As far as possible, the increase in our budget in the years to come, the Ministry of Agriculture will certainly seek to increase these subsidies. It's normal, we'll pursue it. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm still the committee's rapporteur. The Member has already spoken a lot on this subject today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u236	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I would like to raise only two points, because in two aspects there was a question addressed to us, among others. I would like to thank Mr Sawicki, who has already partly served me. There is no increase in any amount in this law. One Member said that we are raising 14 PLN per hectare, that is not true. There is no price fixing in this law - there is no price fixing. There is only an increase of the limit of 1 ha and an increase of the surcharge to a large conversion unit. As regards the question which was addressed to me by the Member, I answer: Yes, the increase in the limit was determined on the basis of specific studies that I had already mentioned in my speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u237	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was submitted to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2019 (prints No 2915 and 2975). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 23 October, the Sejm held its first reading of this draft law. The High Sejm referred the bill to the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and on 6 November the Finance Committee discussed in particular the various articles of the Act with the participation of Minister Robaczyński. In the course of the discussion, changes were made with a regulatory and ordering nature. There were no corrections. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u239	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member. There is no Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, on behalf of... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. The monitor's blocking me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u240	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am pleased to present a positive opinion on the report of the Committee on Public Finance concerning the draft law on special arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2019. During the work of the Committee on Public Finance, no substantive amendments were tabled, but only legislative and linguistic comments were made, and a rather broad discussion was held again on the changes to the around budget laws necessary for the implementation of the budget law planned for 2019. The discussion concerned the effects of changes in these around-budget laws on the sustainability of state finances, the amount of public debt and the budget deficit, and the impact of these changes on the social and economic situation of people employed, disabled, Polish families or the competitiveness of enterprises. And so on. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which I share, the Ministry of Finance should not be threatened with a reduction in funds to the extent that this would prevent the implementation of the Fund's basic tasks to date. According to data from the Ministry of Finance, the fund's funds at the end of 2019 will amount to around PLN 1433 million, including the funds will amount to PLN 638 million. Annually, it is used to pay about 130 million benefits, up to 200 million during the crisis. Thus, even if the fund did not have annual revenues, which are currently within 476 million, there is still a significant amount of resources, so that it can be considered safe without violating the rules on the use of the fund according to its primary purpose. Financing of projects e.g. for the modernisation of services: Police, Border Guard, State Security Services in the framework of expenditure for the financing of the Armed Forces should also not raise any objections as this is in line with the need to build a comprehensive security system. According to the nomenclature and according to the opinions, this can also be counted as defensive expenditure, so we do not have to categorically separate it. In short, this concept includes the right to allocate funds from the financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland for pilot training or the modernisation of transport teams in the Air Rescue Service. Transfer of subsidies to support actions on the promotion of biofuels and other renewable fuels, e.g. to set up not so long ago, because in June 2018, the Low-carbon Transport Fund is also aimed at ordering legal issues. For example, as a result of these changes, the expenditure limit for the purchase of vaccines has been increased, which is in line with the national compulsory vaccination programme. Nevertheless, we believe that there is a need for some change, and I would like, Mr Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to present such an amendment at the moment. It concerns the issue of enabling the Finance Minister, on the basis of a law on specific rules for the performance of certain IT tasks, to entrust a critical application to a special purpose vehicle set up by that minister by that law. It's about some things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the task of obtaining and maintaining the development of the IT system, and this amendment is intended to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u241	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u242	Dear Marshal, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law in 2019. It won't be as beautiful as my previous speaker said. The Civic Platform Club does not agree to freezing the social benefit fund. And he doesn't agree that $500,000. teachers, 490,000. retired soldiers and policemen and budget workers and economic workers had frozen benefits fund at the level of benefits from 2013. We want to walk away from this principle. Finally, it is time for workers to have a frozen welfare fund. The government's proposals were opposed by the trade unions, both OPZZ and Solvency, teachers, retired policemen, retired soldiers, budget workers. The state robs them of money in the average amount PLN 254. Aren't you just ashamed? We also do not agree that the money from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund - the money that employers have paid in the event of difficult situations, the bankruptcy of companies - will be paid to other tasks. So far, if we have been dealing with the allocation of other funds from the budget, it has been the Labour Fund. We do not agree that this also applies to the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. It is therefore a question of circumvention of the clause on showing which public and debt measures we are counting. In this case, we agree that post-graduate internships of doctors, dentists, their specialized trainings, but also nurses and midwives should be financed. The State proposes the amount of PLN 2223 million and this amount of PLN approx. PLN 337 million for the payment of salaries for young people. We agree, but this should not apply to the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. That's what the Labour Fund is for, and that's why there's an expenditure rule, because using the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, you pass the expenditure rule. On the other hand, using the funds of the Labour Fund, you will implement the budget fairly and conscientiously, and not look for pockets and bookmarks in the budget to avoid this skillfully. With regard to the allocation of funds from the Ministry of National Defence for the modernisation of the police, the State Fire Department or the Border Service, we agree to add additional money to the amount of PLN 453 million to double this amount. We know exactly what the situation is today, at least in the police. The budget can afford this, because if there were about 1600 million today, this year's savings, this reserve was allocated by the state to the prepayment for the Vistula programme, the rocket program, and in this case we did not ask or receive no answer to the questions, if it is cheaper or if it is faster. That's why we don't agree to this kind of thing. In addition, Minister, for years, at least recently, I cannot ask for information on how many officials are finally employed, because there is money for officials, and for policemen or firefighters for a modernization program to be carried out much faster, there is no money. We agree to the money for the air ambulance and to the additional payments that you have said we do not agree to circumvent the budgetary rule in terms of more than 5% of reserves. according to the general principle which is in the Public Finance Act. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I would like to submit to repairing these clever tricks and the formula of circumvention of the rules relating to the expenditure rule adopted in the Public Finance Act of the amendment which the honourable marshal will accept. And it's the only thing that makes us dependent on this bill's support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u243	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak. [[Mr. Marshal, the switch is here.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on print no. 2915, i.e. the draft law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of changes. I wanted to focus on a few of those that would show the best possible gaps that this law did not complete. The first point is this. You boast, I mean the governing party and the government, that President Trump praises Poland, praises the Republic of Poland, that he spends 2% whether it is going to spend 2% or even 2,5% GDP for defence. In the meantime, you are planning to transfer some of the funds specifically allocated to defence-related matters to the modernisation of the police. As Mrs Skowrońska said, modernization of the police is needed, but whether you are, so to speak, reliable enough to say that, in this case, the funds originally allocated to the MON are simply transferred and the MON budget is reduced. This is the first case. Second thing about the police. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! It does not need to be a great specialist to notice that the situation in the Polish Police is tragic. Policemen's wages are calling for revenge in heaven. When it comes to the way the police operate, when I talk to the police, they tell me that unfortunately the Polish Police today is the armed arm of the Central Statistical Office, because police officers have to devote much or most of their time to filling out various tables, which sometimes have more than 100 columns. So here's the question: are we really going to create this armed arm of the Central Statistical Office, or is the police from actually protecting citizens and keeping them safe? But in order for the police to be able to protect citizens and keep them safe, first of all police officers must have, first, employment stability, and second, decent wages, so that they simply do not get paid to go on vacation free of charge and earn more money to continue to be cops. Ladies and gentlemen, it really is a great honor and dignity for many of the officers to serve as police officers, but they often have to take free leave so that they can make money to make ends meet. And another point, ladies and gentlemen - in the around-the-budget bill I lack one important record for which Kukiz has fought, fought and fought. This is one of our fundamental demands, with which we have come here at all, to the Sejm - to eliminate the party subsidies. That's what I've run out of here, these solutions. You did not have the courage consistently in the various budget laws to make such changes, so that in the position in which the funds for the functioning of political parties, i.e. party subsidies, to write down A further part of the position of the Kukiz Club will be presented by Mr Pard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u245	Mr Paweł Grabowski... No, now Mr Blaze Pard will use the rest of his time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief. I was wondering, because every year we have these around budget laws, what is the reason that they arise. They are often due to the fact that the law is wrongly written, that there are often some kind of promises in the laws, which somebody will bear in some years, i.e. there is a little bit of mediocreness, because in fact every year such a around budget law can block a few previous laws, freeze them, update them, not update them. It only shows a certain quality of writing the law, and it's been for many years. That's the first line. But there is also a second issue - the quality of preparing budgets later, because there is no money, they are missing. Maybe, first of all, it is worth thinking about planning for many years - not only for the next year, for 2 years, but for many years - so that we do not have to create such a bill around the budget or at least do not have to make a few dozen changes to this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u247	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, since the first reading of the around budget law, little has changed, and all doubts about the provisions that we have expressed in this law at the time of the first reading could be repeated today. The government is playing creative accountant, pretending to solve some problems, and it doesn't really solve them, and, on the other hand, spending funds that aren't in accordance with their destiny, contrary to the purpose for which they should be used. On the other hand, citizens paid for a specific purpose, hoping that they would be used for this purpose. Of course, I am talking about the money from the Fund's Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, which should be used as funds from the special-purpose fund to cover salaries lost by employees following the insolvency of their employer. This money should wait in the fund's money for lean years, years of crisis when we deal with such cases more often. What you're doing is actually that in times of prosperity with this money, you're pursuing completely different goals. These objectives are important, but budgetary resources should be available to implement them and should be used by system solutions rather than by the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. The achievement of objectives such as post-graduate traineeships or specialised training for doctors, nurses and midwives should have a stable source in the budget, regardless of whether it works or how the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund works. You're just jumping into this fund because you're basically gonna train most of the money that's in there for two years. You are probably doing this to circumvent the expenditure rule, which has already been exposed by the opposition, because this fund, unlike the Labour Fund, from which these objectives were carried out earlier, is not covered by the expenditure rule, which is once again the circumvention by the government of the rules that are imposed on you. As far as the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is concerned - I have already said this - you are dealing in a similar way with most funds, and in fact it should be that if there is no need for additional contributions to some fund, and this is a special fund set up to achieve specific objectives, the contribution should simply be reduced or eliminated, while the funds should not be moved at the will and disposal of the rulers, because you do not have the power to do so. Defrosting the social benefit fund for one year instead of permanent in an era of economic well-being, in an age of inflation which is already more than 2% , it is actually unacceptable and it has been strongly criticised by the trade unions, both by.Solidarity and by OPZZ. This is justified, in these days all these funds should be unfrozen and value-added. That's not what you're doing. It is also unacceptable that you mark defence spending by pretending to spend money and use it for completely different purposes, in this case for the modernisation of the police. Again, I would like to say that defence spending is needed and police spending is needed. You pretend to increase the defence budget, and systematically carry out completely different goals from this budget, such as building roads or modernising the police in this case, while the money to modernise the police, to increase the police's salary, you do not find and it happens that the police are already exchanging text messages about the conditions under which they work, indicating that they have to bring their own paper to work for the printer and that the cars they drive often fail to meet the technical conditions and that the equipment they have is worse and worse. This is because the government - as I have been talking about for a long time - has started giving away money, but does not meet the most important needs and does not solve the problems of Poles and Poles, which include ensuring our sense of security in the country, i.e. modernising the police [[♪ The bell ♪]] and provide full police detail every day to protect us. If the bill is finally in this shape, it will be unacceptable to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u249	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, Mrs Genowef Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019. Work in the Committee on Public Finances on this bill, i.e. the so-called law. around the budget, they did not really bring any changes of substance. The changes that have been made in the course of the work are changes of an editorial, legislative nature and have been proposed by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. The debate was held with a social side, a fairly large group of trade union representatives, and I must say that their position confirms us in the belief that the draft submitted cannot be accepted. All the trade union representatives present at the committee's meeting were very critical of the proposed solutions, stressing the inadmissibility of further freezing of the funds provided for occupational welfare funds and other measures to calculate the benefits, in favour of employees, teachers, pensioners, including uniformed services. The discussion compared the very good economic situation in the world economy with the savings that the government is proposing to make on the workers. This is, of course, about accepting the basis for the calculation of benefits, because it was adopted here as a basis for settlement in 2013, i.e. 6 years back. Indeed, this provision is unacceptable. I must also say that despite opposition from many Members of the opposition, the Members of the Law and Justice have voted all the government's proposals which are detrimental to the recipients of these benefits. An important irregularity is also the fact that the project proposes expenditure from funds that is not in line with the objectives of these funds. Here, as an example, I will give you, for example, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, where they will be financed, necessary, and post-graduate internships, and specialization training, specializations of doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives, as well as salaries and insurance contributions paid to young workers preparing for the profession. Nobody questions this, but when it comes to the payment of these benefits from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, this should not be the case because we know that this fund is created by employers and is intended to protect employees' claims in the event of some insolvency of the employer, e.g. in the event of bankruptcy of the company. A similar concern is also raised by the victim's aid fund, the funds of which, instead of pursuing the direct target for the victims, will be redirected to the Prison Service modernisation programme, while the funds of the Armed Forces financing - already emphasised by my predecessors - are being redirected to the Police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department or the State Security Service, and thus again not in accordance with their destiny. To sum up, due to the freezing of these social benefits for a very large group of workers, pensioners, a large group of people, and this freezing at the level of 6 years ago, and also because of the use of special-purpose funds not intended for them, if this is still the shape of this project, my club will not be in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u251	Thank you very much. Now we move on to asking questions. Three Members have come forward. [[One more, Mr. Marshal.]] I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u252	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to comment on the wrong solutions that were proposed in the around budget bill. It's about circumvention and using tricks. So I will ask only one question, about the programme of modernization of the Prison Service, about the redirection of funds from the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance in the amount of about 95 million PLN. Minister! You guys split that fund up a lot. This fund is a foundation, it's marked for other purposes. I didn't get an answer as you shared this fund at a very strange committee meeting where Minister Kempa and other advisors were. The funds were earmarked for certain purposes for voluntary firefighters, but not transparently so far, when the Chief of the State Firefighter spent funds on a national fire-fighting system or in cooperation with the units. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Kempa is not a fire minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u253	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u254	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. As far as the police are concerned, I mentioned that there was a need for a raise. Specifically, when is the government going to start an effective and not effective dialogue with police officers, with the Polish Police? When are you going to solve this situation? It really shouldn't look like this so the cops have to take leave of absence so they can work somewhere else so that they can serve as an honorable police officer. I'm asking you to take a serious approach to this case. If there are measures, and it is said that there is even a budget surplus, then it may be worth considering that some funds should be spent urgently on the salaries of police officers, so that they are not cut off by any allowances, because unfortunately sometimes, too. So, please, and once again, I call for urgent attention to be paid to the subject and the problem of police officers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u255	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u256	In connection with this discussion, Minister, I would like to ask whether, in short, the state's finances force the current government to circumvent the spending rule, because I believe that this is a wretched argument of the opposition. If we have a budget deficit of PLN 20 billion, at an unprecedented low level, and they have left us over PLN 50 billion, and within 3 years we have managed to reduce this 30 billion, if we even deduct from it the costs of debt service, as the Minister mentioned, about PLN 30 billion, so this will give us a surplus, that is, the budget deficit is at 1 , unlike many other rich countries, this means that the government is forced to, is under pressure to hide, sweep expenditure under the carpet and use creative accounting, in which they specialized [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our predecessors? [[Applause]] Answer me that question. [[Member of the Commission, creative accounting under the carpet...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As my colleague said earlier, we write laws, in the laws we write noble goals, and then quietly, quietly, we introduce a short, simple article, in this case the article. 19: In 2019 the provision of Article shall not apply. 37a of 25 August 2006 on biocomponents and liquid biofuels. And there's no big deal going on, something doesn't apply there, but if we look at the 2006 Biocomponents and Liquid Biofuels Act, it turns out that we're taking money to promote, support companies that produce biocomponents. I would like to ask: Why do we not want to spend money on fuel from plants, organic fuels, we do not want to support Polish agriculture? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Robaczyński will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To answer your questions, first of all, I would like to say that as far as the post-penitentiary fund is concerned, this issue is de facto about implementation for 2017. It is difficult for me to speak here about the transparency of the division of this fund. As far as I know, the funds have been allocated to individual volunteer firefighters, and that's all I can say. [[And I can't ask for an answer.]] With regard to the manner in which this was done, the details here could probably be given by the Minister of Justice, but, as I say, this is really about the implementation of not around budget law for 2019, but the implementation of budget in 2017. As far as the police are concerned, as far as I know, this information is to be sent to you by the current Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. All I can say is that in 2019 over PLN 3 billion was planned for the modernisation programme. It is a programme worth more than PLN 9 billion between 2017 and 2020 which is to be allocated to support the Police in many areas, both in terms of wages and construction investments, transport equipment, equipment, weapons and special techniques. As regards the issue of the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund or, in general, the funds in the state budget and the financial situation of the state budget, I would like to stress that, firstly, the deficit of the public finance sector is falling systematically. For 2017 this deficit amounted to 1.4% GDP and will continue to fall. Debt, I mean. debt according to the EU definition is about 50% ,exactly 50.7% and this is the tenth result throughout the European Union. This shows that the policy of the Minister of Finance or the Council of Ministers is responsible and guarantees the sustainability of public finances in the long term. On the other hand, as regards the fact that funds are being used, this is something that has actually been done throughout the whole period since 1989, i.e. It's public money, it's all public revenue. In a situation where there is a large surplus of funds per fund, it is better to allocate them to specific tasks than to indebt the state budget in addition. The use of funds from these funds does not jeopardise the performance of their statutory functions, it is ensured that the financing from these funds is sustainable for all the tasks that they are to carry out under the various laws. And the answer to the question about biofuels, the promotion of biofuels. In fact, the suspension of the provision on the promotion of biofuels results from the fact that it has been introduced a new instrument in the form of a Low Carbon Transport Fund. The tasks resulting from this law are in the plan for 2019, their value is PLN 340 million. Therefore, there is no longer really any point in that there is a provision that is likely to be amended, from this original law, because it was created, as I say, a new instrument just specifically to achieve these objectives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u261	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with strengthening supervision and investor protection in the financial market (prints 2812 and 2863). I will now ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and investor protection in the financial market, print No 2812. At its 68th meeting of 12 September 2018, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meetings on 25 and 26 September 2018, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u263	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Kazimierz Smolinski - on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and investor protection in the financial market, in print no. 2812 and 2863. The rapporteur presented the form of the bill, following the amendments adopted by the Committee on Public Finance, contained in the report presented to the High House, so I will only refer to the most important issues. According to the title of the Act, its aim is to strengthen the supervision and protection of investors in the financial market. Undoubtedly, the State must effectively counter all these unfair market practices that expose financial market participants to losses that undermine market confidence and confidence in those financial institutions that conduct their activities fairly and honestly, while respecting the law and good market standards. The government bill is an important step to stop these disturbing trends, and the Law and Justice Club supports this course of action. The key functions of the State vis-à-vis the financial market are carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission. Accordingly, the aim of the draft law is to strengthen the independence of the Financial Supervision Commission and to ensure that it is adequate to the needs and expectations of the level of funding. Recent audit reports by the Supreme Audit Chamber show that one of the problems with the operation of supervision is underfinancing, which reduces the frequency of inspections and forces the reduction of other supervisory activities. Both the growing expectations of supervision and the subsequent tasks imposed on the Commission for Financial Supervision as a result of statutory changes require the creation of effective financing mechanisms which, according to the project, will take place directly from fees and contributions from supervised entities, without mediation of the State budget. This will give the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority the opportunity to obtain additional posts, which the chairman of the committee has been seeking for a long time. It must be borne in mind that efficient and strong supervision is undoubtedly in the interest of all those financial market players who conduct their activities honestly and honestly and whose reputation is affected by the revealed pathology. It is equally important to strengthen supervision and ensure its independence to maintain the continuity of the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission and the Financial Supervision Authority. According to the proposed law, despite the transformation of the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority into a State legal entity, the continuity of supervisory functions will be maintained and there should be no, even transitional, slowing down or weakening of supervisory functions. The proposed law strengthens cooperation between national authorities and aims to ensure better coordination in the exchange of legally protected information between institutions designed to address irregularities and infringements. This serves to extend the composition of the Financial Supervision Committee not only to the representative of the President of the Council of Ministers but also to the representative of the Minister of Finance. Here, the amendment will undoubtedly aim to change this composition, and I will pass it on in a moment. It should be noted, however, that the minister of the coordinator has only an opinion... that he can only take part, without a vote, in the committee. The draft law provides for the creation of a Financial Education Fund in front of a financial spokesman. The aim of the Fund will be to increase the financial awareness of Poles and its main task will be to promote knowledge about financial markets. The Financial Education Board, composed of representatives of state institutions, will be responsible for overseeing the fund and setting the direction of its activities. A very important change introduced at the stage of the financial committee's work is also the amendment to the Capital Market Supervision Act, which will allow for the control of brokerage banks, such as brokerage houses, with all the powers that allow for the detection of irregularities when offering clients securities. The Financial Supervision Commission will thus obtain better control instruments for banks in this area. This is a necessary complement to the recently implemented Polish regulation law under the EU MiFID II directive. In view of the above arguments, the Law and Justice Club supports the draft law and will vote in favour of it. At the same time, I am making amendments to the club, which aim to clarify many of the solutions introduced and to introduce new solutions for the acquisition and restructuring of banks, as has been said for a long time. Those are the expectations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u265	Thank you very much. [[This directive is a MiFID...]] Mr Urbaniak will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is bad. The Civic Platform Club will vote against it. We criticized this draft law already during the debate at first reading, criticized the intentions, circumstances, haste in introducing and the content of this draft, the proposed changes and solutions. The committee's work only confirmed our conviction. The number of amendments tabled by the government party, taken over by Members of the PiS, and the number of comments made by the Legislative Bureau were terrifying. The length of waiting for a single text after first reading was also frightening. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the parliamentary club... Your Marshal, please, I am making amendments to the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Firstly, we oppose the creation of the Financial Education Fund. We are in favour of financial education, tax education, economic education, but the proposed solution is another fund which, in a typical way for the PiS, will have public money in a vague way, without transparency and transparency. Fund supporting the PiS programme on its own. Both the debate at first reading and the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance did not dispel our doubts. Moreover, rather, it has confirmed it, just as three years of the rule of law and justice and the history of similar funds over the last three years have confirmed our doubts about this. We are in favour of normal, reliable and systematic education, but in schools, economic education, this is what needs to be done, not education resulting from the occasional actions of beneficiaries of some new fund, which is created from public money. We object categorically to extending control time from 6 months to a year and the possibility of blocking all accounts for up to 4 days. These changes, I'm gonna use that word again, they're outrageous. Because KNF had problems and could not prevent several financial scandals, it cannot react on controlled entities by increasing mechanisms... [[Control.]] ...harming them and making their lives miserable. Control, which lasts a year, is not a check. This is proof that KNF can't control if it can't control it for six months. We are also opposed to extending the membership of the Financial Supervision Committee because there are disputes in the government in PiS, even internal war. You cannot spoil the state, you cannot spoil its institution, and above all you cannot generate new costs, unnecessary costs. Last but not least, we talked about this at first reading and during committee work. This bill, as the military flyers say, is a flare, which is something to distract attention from the main problem that PiS is currently facing, namely the GetBack scandal. This bill is supposed to create the impression that the GetBack scandal is the result of a flaw in the law, which is not true. The law currently in force, before the proposed amendments, is sufficient to avoid an issue of the GetBack type. It's KNF's faults that are the main cause of this incident. The sleazyness of the PIS services in this area is very interesting. In this respect, the proposal in Article is very interesting. 9, concerning granting the Prime Minister extraordinary powers to obtain all information, even those protected by other laws, surprising because the role of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, previously president of Bank Zachodni WBK, in this matter is quite unclear. After the famous letter of former president of GetBack by Mr Konrad Kąkolewski to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, an important question arises, which we still have no answers to today, for which Mr Kąkolewski of GetBack demands gratitude from Prime Minister Morawiecki. This question is also valid because to this day we do not have an answer to the question whether GetBack bought out the West Bank's WBK receivables, whose president was Prime Minister Morawiecki. The question still stands. [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether GetBack bought out the bank's claims under the control of the State Treasury, whose main commander is Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This bill is a flare to cover PiS and Mateusz Morawiecki's problems with the GetBack scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's strong.]] [[Questions. You will answer these questions and everything will be clear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u267	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding printing no.2812, i.e. the draft law amending certain laws in connection with strengthening supervision and investor protection in the financial market. Abstracting from the personal threads that Mr Urbaniak had just mentioned, I cannot be surprised that criticism is falling for the proposal to introduce these solutions. If they were functioning, there would be no way that there would be an Amber Gold scandal, or at least there wouldn't be a situation like the day before yesterday that Prime Minister Tusk, the former Prime Minister, is coming, and he says: I didn't know because he could hide himself from ignorance. In this situation, according to the new legislation, no prime minister will be able to obscure himself with the ignorance that he didn't know because he would be a member of the KNF. Dear country, finances within the meaning of: the money of citizens who are also investors or who indirectly invest through various investment funds, banks, etc., this is a very important sphere, very sensitive, sensitive, which really decides whether to be or not to be individual countries. [[Bleeding.]] I believe it is appropriate for the Prime Minister to be a member of the KNF. As regards the Minister of the Special Service Coordinator, ladies and gentlemen, several months of the work of the Amber Gold Commission shows that this is a legitimate solution. Until now, the situation in the Polish state was such that the prosecution was going on one track, special services were going on the other track, financial supervision was going on the third track. And everyone, when they were passing somewhere, they'd get away and get away with it. It is high time that in matters of financial security of Poles the Polish state, representatives of the Polish state, authorities of the Polish state acted in a uniform manner. In this case, these solutions seem reasonable. Further solutions that have not been mentioned concern the dematerialisation of securities. This is an interesting solution that will certainly improve the transparency of trading in securities and all those goods that are related to them. Ladies and gentlemen, transparency and transparency are one of the banners, one of the pillars of Kukiz,15, so it is difficult for us not to support such solutions, which are in fact intended to increase this transparency, demodification of water, in colloquially speaking. The third point I would like to draw attention to is the Financial Education Fund. Just as I could not agree with Mr Urbaniak on these personal animosities, so here I agree that it is the creation of an additional fund, which is to be such a litmus leaf, which is to obscure the inability of the Polish state in terms of financial, legal and economic education. Ladies and gentlemen! There aren't many Members in this room who have graduated as recently as I have. I'm saying there aren't many, but they are. Ladies and gentlemen, the nonsense that young people learn, the information they need absolutely nothing in practice, unfortunately prevails in life and replaces specific knowledge, necessary knowledge of financial education, legal education and economic education. Kukiz.15 is in the position that Poles should be a conscious nation, because if Poles are a conscious nation, they will not be fooled by any cheaters, cheaters. Nor will they be fooled by the rulers, sir. [[It's already dangerous.]] Yeah, it's already dangerous. If Poles were aware that almost half of what they earn is taken away from them by the rulers, whether from the law or from the left or from the centre, if they were aware of how high taxes are paid, if they were aware of what rights and obligations are in general enshrined in the laws, if Poles, young Poles, were finally taught at school, how money looks like, how money is made, what it looks like to pay taxes in practice, then surely the composition of this House would be completely different. I understand that you are in good hands so that the Poles continue to remain unconscious. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u269	Thank you. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, who will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u270	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Financial supervision leaves much to be desired. An excellent example, and at the same time a nasty example, are the SKOK scandals, GetBack. The SKOK scandal is about PLN 5 billion of losses and costs incurred by each Pole. GetBack in turn is 2,6 billion PLN of losses and several thousand people injured. These are, ladies and gentlemen, huge amounts of human drama and evidence of the inability of the financial supervision system. It is necessary to correct this issue properly, but the direction of the changes taken into account in the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision and investor protection in the financial market, prints 2812 and 2863, does not guarantee that the problems we face will be resolved. It is proposed to transform the Authority of the Financial Supervision Commission into a State legal person. The contributions and fees will then be directly addressed to UKNF and the Financial Supervision Authority will be the management body. This change will not affect the security of investors as it is merely organisational. It is also planned to expand the composition of KNF, which in fact only goes to casts and personal games. The draft law also provides for the creation of a Financial Education Fund. Its main task is to promote knowledge of financial markets and their instruments. However, it should be considered whether this will increase the financial awareness of Poles and Poles. There are situations where an investor is misled or is offered a product that is not tailored to his needs and knowledge. Practice shows that information sheets for depositors often do not raise their awareness. Is the Financial Education Fund able to change that? Will those who have lost their lives' savings recover from their existence and their postulated changes? Will investors thus be protected against losses in the next event? Let us consider how we can help those whose only dream is to recover the assets lost in the financial event. Let us also consider how to avoid future investor dramas. Unfortunately, this project does not show the right solutions. If we want to educate, let us start with the first grade of primary school, let us introduce economic lessons that will be financed from the state budget, so that the next generations will act prudently. There is no doubt that the quality of supervision needs to be changed. It is necessary for the services to operate efficiently so that the victims of financial problems can receive the money they have lost. Obligations that are exercised by financial supervisory authorities must be exercised with due care and care for investors' well-being. The basis is to verify the potential risks. Unfortunately, despite turbulent discussions at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, a position has not been reached that would protect citizens from further financial problems. On behalf of the Modern Club, I encourage further work on changes so as to protect every investor and every investor, every Polish woman and every Pole from such issues as GetBack and the SKOKs, while we cannot support this bill. Yes, thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u271	Thank you. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, who will present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government bill amending certain laws in connection with strengthening supervision and investor protection in the financial market. It should be stressed that the project was the subject of a very thorough and lively discussion, an analysis up to two meetings of the Committee on Public Finance. Many issues have been discussed, maybe not yet fully accepted, considered to be solutions to be implemented, because it is indeed a rather extensive project, introduces changes to as many as 19 laws. The most important solutions it introduces include: changes in the financing of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Supervision Authority - directly from fees paid by supervised financial market entities - or the extension of the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission. It raises no doubt that there will also be representatives of the President of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund and the Minister of the Council of Ministers dealing with matters relating to the coordination of the activities of special services, with the fact that the last three representatives will not have the right to vote. The project also establishes a legal framework for the provision of information, communication between the Financial Supervision Commission and its members with other bodies such as ABW, CBA, National Tax Administration, Police and the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. That's what we find right and right. However, the Financial Education Fund raises doubts, it is also a little artificial, it is not known how this financial education, which is necessary for Poles, will be implemented. We also believe that these measures should be transferred from other sources or should be implemented, but within the framework of universal education in our schools. Thanks to contacts with other countries, we know that there really is a practical approach to finance, to insurance is a fundamental subject even in younger primary school classes. This is the case in English, French or German schools, and I do not understand why it takes us so long to prepare this issue. I also stress that a mandatory dematerialisation of corporate bonds, investment certificates issued by closed investment funds or pledge letters will be introduced, and this solution should indeed give investors greater security and flexibility. We have doubts as to whether such a project will meet all the objectives for which it has been prepared, whether it will actually protect Poles from such incidents or even fraudulent actions of institutions which should not allow such situations as in the case of SKOKs or GetBack. The discussion on this project is still ongoing, it is not finished. My club will vote after the final submission of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u273	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of your fellow Members still like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I can't see. So I close the list of people who are enrolled in the question at this point. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u274	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister to explain to the Members of the total opposition how good changes in financial supervision are being made. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that the Civic Platform has had enough time since 2012 to learn from the Amber Gold scandal and improve the law on cooperation between state services involved in ensuring the security of the financial sector but not. As usual, you claim that everything was fine, just like Donald Tusk at the last hearing by the committee of inquiry. In your opinion, you passed the test. Fortunately, the Poles entrusted us with legislative power and we have just the opportunity to do what the Civic Platform should have done a long time ago to make up for some of what it did in the Amber Gold case. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u275	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. This Financial Education Fund is bothering me. If the Minister would be kind enough to say something more about this, what this education is supposed to look like, will it be such a fund that some of the funds will be shifted to create some institution that will be working on it? You don't know what, and at the end of the year she's going to report that she's printed about ten or a hundred thousand flyers or that some of the brochures were given to young people to read them in your mind, but in fact, to throw them in the trash. So, ladies and gentlemen, is this going to be theoretical education or theoretical education, or is this going to be a practice? Are you expecting a dialogue with the Ministry of National Education? Does the Ministry of National Education even know that you want to finally - and praise you for this - start financial education of Poles, such as that of a real event? Let's take a step further, go towards legal education. Ladies and gentlemen, as a legal counsel, I meet almost every day with a great problem, which is low, unfortunately low legal awareness of Poles. Many dramas, many dramas of Polish families, older people, younger people. Many of these dramas could be avoided if the Polish school taught useful things rather than... I'm not gonna finish. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u277	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u278	I am surprised that some Members of the PiS do not know that such a law on financial supervision was introduced by the PiS and Prime Minister Tusk literally complied with the principles of the current law adopted by the PiS. The PiS Act. Is it true, Minister, that the fees are set by the Financial Supervision Commission, pay the markets, you simply change the form of money flow and there is no comment on the fact that the Financial Supervision Commission has little money? Is it true that you are trying - or can you do so - to cover the issue of GetBack, and will this 2.5 billion PLN of damage to people or entities who bought the shares be returned to them? Is it true that the changes behind the Civic Platform saved PLN 4.2 billion of savings of people who deposited this in the SKOKs? Do you want to, and why, extend the controls? Does the MiFID directive in force today - Mr Smolinski, I am sorry, not very much reading it - guarantee, already guarantees transparency, transparency of financial instruments, reducing speculation, strengthening investor protection? All these changes are. So I'm asking you: Why are you here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then they were behind the Financial Supervision Commission in this shape? Why do you criticize how someone literally obeys her laws? And once again, will those who are injured in the GetBack case gain... Not new, not new. Can you protect those who have lost PLN 2.5 billion and who do not want to do so? And don't be surprised, Mr Cymanski, because you don't want to talk about the franchise, at least four months. Thank you very much. [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u279	Mr Blazej Parda, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question at this point in the meeting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm short. The project increases the membership of the KNF to the Prime Minister and may not be a bad solution, but there is a big problem, because for the next six months the Prime Minister will be busy running the campaign on the Euro elections and the next six months - the campaign on the elections of the Sejm. Will the Prime Minister have time to be in this KNF? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u281	To this question and previous questions, please answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u282	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On questions, so quickly: It is not the Prime Minister who will personally participate in the work of the Financial Supervision Committee, but the representative of the President of the Council of Ministers. Just as he is with other individual ministers - the representative of the finance minister, the minister... So that it is not a minister himself, it is his representative, so the Prime Minister does not have to participate personally. With regard to individual questions, the act aims to strengthen supervision. How supervision works, here the lecture is not needed, while these solutions, which will be proposed, based on our experience, the experience of supervision, seem, and this is the consensus reached, no one has any doubts about this, will consist in improving, strengthening supervision of financial institutions. As far as the Financial Education Fund is concerned, there were various allegations about this solution. I would like to remind you that, at our request, as we have already talked about several times, the Financial Market Development Council has developed changes to the programme basis, so that the youngest, learning at secondary school, have the opportunity to learn about the instruments, mechanisms of the financial market, and since 1 September this year. this new programming base has been changed. However, do not forget that, as I also said at first reading, young people, mostly their parents or grandparents, were not lost on the Amber Gold scandals. They've already finished school. So the Financial Education Fund is among others. To address those people who have already completed their education, my parents, my grandparents, these people to direct this education. [[Third century.]] Please note that there will be representatives whether it is the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Education, the Financial Advisor, UOKiK, KNF, The National Bank of Poland, i.e. those institutions, which at various contacts have experience, where there are potential weaknesses, in terms of awareness of how the financial market works, how the financial market works. How will this fund work? He will have his advice, he will not create additional institutions, he will determine what elements should be addressed. On the other hand, in what form it will be done, it will already be governed by this council, and they will decide it. Based on their experience, I think they're going to develop the best media in this area. As far as contributions and contributions are concerned, until now payments are made by a financial institution, and nothing changes in this matter. This, on the other hand, goes through the budget and, as all previous finance ministers, including the current president or previous presidents, show, is not very effective because, because it must go through the budget - these measures - the entire budgetary process and its limitations and certain shortcomings in principle prevent the office and committee from fully and effectively operating. And this change will cause contributions to be paid directly to the office, and may also be made within a year with the agreement of the committees and parliament to change the financial plan, so it will be more flexible. This change is also welcomed by all, including the financial sector, who is aware that maybe contributions will increase - because the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority needs to be expanded, its flexibility and resources increased, because the President present and, I would remind you, the previous President said that there was a need to increase the resources of the office - and yet he takes it very positively, because it will shorten the process or licensing or be Maybe control. I think these are all the questions that have been asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u283	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals (prints Nos 2901 and 2948). Mr Andrzej Noblechta will present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the 70th meeting of the Sejm, the first reading of this government draft law was held, then the Sejm addressed this project to the Committee on Public Finance, and the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was held on 25 October. This draft was discussed in detail at the committee meeting and made minor legislative and regulatory amendments to it. And on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this important bill that is beneficial to taxpayers, which has actually been addressed to the Sejm without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u285	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u286	Thank you very much, Marshal, for the opportunity to speak in this discussion, in this debate. This law, which has already been discussed once in the High House, sets out its legislative path all the time. I can say today that at this time, which has passed since the discussion on this project, there have been no major changes here, but one important aspect I would like to emphasise. A detailed analysis of the solutions initially proposed has led to such reflections and conclusions that work needs to be further accelerated and stepped up. Despite the enormous budgetary requirements for the cause and inspiration of the Minister of Environment present - I warmly welcome you - Mr. Henryk Kowalczyk, these proposals, discussed, have produced such a fruit, which I would like to present in the form of an amendment, an amendment which would give us a chance to make quicker use of the financial opportunities that this law puts before the taxpayer. The wording of this amendment causes - according to the original wording of the provision, the taxable person could deduct 23% from the tax base expenditure incurred, in accordance with the Regulation, which sets out precisely what the purposes for which such expenditure may be incurred - that now in the proposed version, if the High House in its graciousness, discretion and wisdom accept this amendment, which I am seeking from the High House, as I ask and appeal, taxpayers will be able to deduct from the tax base the entire amount of expenses incurred. A concrete example: if someone of their own funds spends 100,000. PLN for the indicated purposes, so far in accordance with this wording, which is currently on the table, can deduct 23 thousand and can deduct the entire amount from the tax base. Of course, the overall financial benefit limit of 53 000 is maintained. Evil, isn't it? It's the nodding that comforts me, gives me strength and strengthens my conviction. So that in this joyous state of mind don't forget it at all, at this point I'll give it to your marshal, who is gorgeously smiling. And that's what's missing in this Seym, those smiles are missing. Really, this grim mood and all... And now, as part of the tooling or building up of this good news, this idea and proposal, which I hope will pass - also the smiles of Kukiz15's colleagues are good for this amendment - I would like to say that this front does not end. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In a campaign that has already dropped the dust of battle, this topic has become a theme, in some cities at least, in some local governments... [[Smog.]] ...what to do. It's not just about smog, it's about fighting for a better and cleaner environment. By the way, we've learned a lot, and we've learned what kind of threats they are. Recent information, reports from the World Health Organization and the European Union... [[And who wrote you such a proposal, such an amendment?]] We give our dues. What imperial - the emperor, what Platforms - the Platform. It's not like we're the only ones who see it. No. The glory in the corner was constant. Let's share the good work. Let's call a ceasefire here, and we'll work together on this. (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I am addressing Mrs Krystyna Skowronska right now. Don't take away my hope of cooperation. We're gonna fight politically, but we're gonna work together for the good of the state and citizens, okay? [[The Frankowichs, too?]] Yeah. It's a responsible word, either in one version or another, but let's take solutions because we can't put things off forever. Really, we're scary, but we're not that scary. [[Applause]] Just thank you for those nice words. In conclusion, I will say this: Campaign, global reports, everything confirms us and urges us. It's sad news: According to this report - of course, let's take an amendment to the fact that these are estimates - more than 20% died in January 2017 compared to 2016. more Poles. The threat we're all fighting together, the government in particular, is very serious. I hope that this subject, as much as we share, will unite us. We can argue about how to do it, in what order, but not what to do. And this hope is a good ending, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Oh, right now, my speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How much does it cost?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u287	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska to present the position of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u288	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I have the great pleasure of presenting our position on this project to the High House on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, but I would like to mention that Mrs Zofia Czernow is in charge of this project in our club, and she is in charge here. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to remind you that the amendment introduces tax relief for the performance of thermomodernisation tasks in single-family residential buildings. This allowance may be used by individuals' income tax payers paying tax on a tax scale of 19 per cent, as well as by paying flat rates on registered revenues. This relief is based on the deduction from the revenue of expenditure incurred just on thermomodernisation. With the terms that entitle you to benefit from this relief... First of all, owners of single-family housing can apply for it. Second condition. On income, 23% can be deducted expenditure incurred, except that the maximum amount is 53 000. zł, as mentioned by the rapporteur. The time limit is three years for one project. Another condition is, of course, to document expenditure with VAT invoices. The relief will not be granted to those taxpayers whose expenditure has already been financed by a national fund or regional environmental funds or whose expenditure has been reimbursed in any other form. On the plus side, it should be assessed that this project introduces additional incentives for owners of single-family buildings to reduce low emissions, thus improving the air quality that we all breathe. And absolutely every proposal for action that reduces this low emissions deserves to be considered, all the more so in housing construction, which is a significant source of this low emissions. However, we have some serious doubts and reservations that I would like to say at the moment. Firstly, there are questions, doubts as to why this project is limited to single-family construction. We ask, what about multi-family construction, including among others. with housing communities, where low-income citizens often live, and housing is often heated with furnaces, which unfortunately still burns with very bad quality coal. The second reservation - I think much more important - concerns the financing of this project. Well, there are great declarations in the explanatory memorandum, as the government will help the owners of the buildings to fight smog. Unfortunately, this is very far from true, and these great words absolutely immediately eliminate the justification for this project, which says that the government on this project will actually make money, and in fact local governments will pay for it. And here's a brief explanation. The government will receive additional VAT revenue of almost 2850 million, which at the same time will cover the losses in the PIT of the state budget. The budget will earn a net of 961 million. The losses in local government revenue will amount to around 1885 million, while this law does not guarantee any compensation for local governments. And here is also the question: Why is this not included here? Question: "Does the government know and at the same time appreciate the fact that local governments have systematically financed the expenditure of their residents from their own budgets for the fight against smog, including, among others, for years." expenditure on the replacement of furnaces or the cost of connection to heating networks? And now there's another government-designed task that the government is going to take on their shoulders and, of course, still finance out of their own pockets. Is it okay to make money on this project and to shift costs to others? We're thinking about local governments here. At the same time, there is talk of great government support in the fight against low emissions. And now I am. Despite all these reservations, we propose that this project be submitted for further work. At the same time, we are convinced that all questions, doubts will be clarified. We also make an amendment at the same time, and how we vote is absolutely dependent on its adoption and the answers to all these questions. Thank you very much. Marshal, you're welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u289	Thank you very much and I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, who will present the report on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the print project No. 2901, in short, to the law which introduces the so-called. thermomodernization relief. First of all, of course... Firstly, with regard to the actions that are aimed at effectively fighting smog, the Kukiz Club is absolutely recommending that its Members support such solutions. On the other hand, I would like to refer to a point made by Mr Cymanski, asking for the support of these amendments. Mr President, an amendment extending the scope of the relief - in fact that leads to this... [[Accelerate the possibility.]] Or speeding up? It's a good amendment and we'll be wondering. I think we'll also be willing to support it. On the other hand, I wanted to refer to the fact that a moment earlier we were taking part in the plenary room in order to regulate the so-called law. direct sales by farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of Law and Justice! These direct sales solutions - I know that we are talking about thermomodernization now, but a short insert - have already been proposed in the form of a bill in early 2016, but somehow it has not been accepted and it must have been 2 years. At the beginning of 2018, our next proposal for solutions aimed at launching direct sales by farmers at all, so from a real event. And it was only now in November that you decided to lean on it, so I would like you to ask for the support of good practice, so that you can hear it more quickly and also not be afraid to support the good solutions that are being built by the opposition Members. I understand that perhaps in your world's optics, everything good must come from the Law and Justice, but believe me, there are many Members in this plenary room who are really going to... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Talk to me, please, for a moment in the cockroaches. Member of the Commission. So that my big request for a change of approach at all. Listen to what the opposition says. Sometimes, yes, the opposition screams, there's nothing to hear. On the other hand... Or maybe it's worth thinking about why the opposition is screaming. But if the opposition offers concrete solutions, it is worth leaning over them. About the concrete solutions. I am wondering and I am paying attention to some of the issues that have been addressed by my attention. Well, we're only talking about single-family homes here, and of course the definition of a single-family house doesn't necessarily assume that it has to be a solo house, because these are e.g. Also twins. We'd have to go to construction law. But maybe it's also worth extending it to multi-family houses, where they are. housing communities. For what this community has done to itself that it cannot benefit from this relief. These are solutions that could actually help fight smog. That's one thing. Secondly, personally, I am talking about this consistently all the time and I would urge that this also - but this will already apply to regulations at the level of the regulation - this refund or this relief be covered, for example. electromagnetic filters, because it is not always necessary to replace the entire furnace, the entire installation and everything. Sometimes, for example. If someone can't afford a very expensive replacement of the entire installation, then maybe it's enough to install an electromagnetic filter that will reduce the amount of exhaust gas emitted or dust specifically, i.e. stop these dusts on a filter mounted at the end of the chimney. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that thermomodernization does not always have to bear great costs. As for the amendment, once again, the one proposed by Mr Cymanski: this is an interesting solution to be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! We're in favour of the project being put on the committee and the committee working on it. But I would very much like to see the committee's work not like pushing that knee, so let's really think about it in this committee. First case, i.e. Multi-family homes: Is it possible? What would be the cost? Is that right? Or do you need another legal solution? I don't know, Mr. Minister will probably be able to relate to that. Plus just the question of including the installation of electrofilters, so that those who can't afford, for example. for a large thermomodernization, they could do a little thermomodernization, not necessarily less efficient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u291	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Mark Sowa, who will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I am glad that we are having discussions at all about the clean air package and that some legislative documents have finally appeared in this area, because this is really missing so far. First of all, I am pleased that there is a wider representation of the government during today's debate, because - no offense, gentlemen - but the Minister of Finance knows very well how we conducted our first reading. You can't be responsible for parts. If you touch the package, then this package should be fully worked. This law, which we are considering today, in terms of thermomodernization relief, especially after Mr Cymanski's amendment, is even more attractive, and it is really the only real tool in the whole package of clean air in financial terms. It's the only real thing. As we look at these elements, in fact, first of all, it will increase, I would say, demand action, there will be more expenditure on renovation of objects, on thermomodernization. [[Faster.]] This will, of course, shift to greater energy efficiency of our facilities, our homes or to the exchange of heat sources and clean air. This is, of course, a perfectly natural thing. I understand that the expenses won't be up to $230,000 then, but they'll reach $53,000, so please don't tell me we're gonna deduct $100,000 from the income, because since 53... [[From the base.]] ...but it will, I understand, only 53,000. [[Limit maintained.]] So this is definitely an amendment that goes in the right direction. I must also say, ladies and gentlemen, by undertaking the evaluation of the programme or commenting on the Clean Air programme, that I cannot find out from ministers where the amount of PLN 104 billion is saved for this programme. I can't find out. None of you know that. I've been to voivodship environmental funds, but they don't know what they're gonna be funding this program from. Granted, the national fund was earmarked under one law for approximately 2 billion of the issue fee, but this money of 1400 million had already been taken to implement another programme. In view of the above, you must analyse this, because, of course, marketing sounds good, but in fact there is no "Clean Air" programme. The thermomodernization relief of several billion zlotys is the first effective support, because, of course, there are 4 billion in this dimension, but after Mr Cymanski has tabled an amendment, this effect will certainly be greater, especially for less earners. [[Faster.]] Larger for those with lower incomes who will not spend a full amount on expenditure, on renovations, but intend to, for example. replace the windows, replace the stove... [[Warm up.]] And it's gonna cost them $40,000. And they're gonna count it all down, and they're just gonna count it down to eight, so in that sense, this relief is good. Minister Emilewicz shows me - I will still have a speech about the thermomodernization fund - that there is a second effective support programme. I agree, Minister, but he's really microscopic, and that's where we're talking about a couple hundred million zlotys. Even if we add that billion, we still don't have 105 billion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, no, this is bullshit. You've made the program pure air, total bullshit. It's really not tense. I want you to show comprehensively and fully the support instruments of the Clean Air Programme, because you will have a problem with this next year. Since 28 September, you have been accepting applications under the Regional Environmental Funds. You have suspended the implementation of the programs of Kawka. People know there was a 50% grant. Today it may be even bigger, according to the program's assumptions, but there is no money, and the conclusions will flow avalanchely. The conclusions will come avalanchely and this money will have to come next year and 2020 because this is a huge problem and you know very well that there are a lot of boilers to replace. In Krakow alone 28 thousand have been listed for 4 years. boilers. In Małopolska... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, yes, Minister, check it out. If not, you may also address President Krakow as part of your access to public information and you will receive a factual answer, how many furnaces have been listed in Krakow itself. You'll get information on how many furnaces have been replaced in all of Małopolska. It's all counted. We, of course, will support this bill as a modern one, and we will also support the amendment made by Mr Cymanski, because I believe that every tool, particularly effective, which accelerates this process, deserves to be supported. However, once again, I call on you to show a complete programme of clean air, so that it is not a fictional programme, that it is not a programme that has some assumptions, but is not implemented, but that it is well, deep [[♪ The bell ♪]] thoughtful and really effective, one that will support Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u293	Thank you very much. And Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the Government bill amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, prints No. 2901 and 2948. The project was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances and indeed at the moment it is in the form of a submission, so it is in the form submitted by the government. The bill is generally good. In substance, I would no longer like to go into detail, because we all know that this is about introducing a thermomodernization relief, which will be a kind of incentive to introduce austerity solutions in single-family housing. Let me just remind you that according to the project, the relief consists in deduction from income or income 23% expenditure incurred for the implementation of the project, not more than 53 000. within 3 consecutive years. This does not include expenditure that has been financed from other sources, i.e. from programmes, subsidies from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management or from voivodship, and in some form they have been returned to the taxpayer. This is not the case. A very interesting element that I would like to draw your attention to is the list of materials that will be subject to thermomodernizational relief. This is very interesting because the regulation of the Minister for Investment and Development is an integral part of the bill. It is interesting, however, that when purchasing certain materials, the cost of which is calculated, if we apply, there is no need for an energy audit. If the investment is larger and requires audit, the list of materials, equipment and services shall also include the execution of an energy audit of the building or any scope of work that may be included in the cost. In general, the draft law achieves a very good goal, because protecting the environment, maintaining air cleanness is our need for life, important and necessary today. The only reservation I have is that this project does not include compensation for the local government. There will be a tax loss here, and the bill generally does not offer compensation, although I remember that the Minister said in response that it would be resolved in a different way, but I do not remember at the moment how. Several legislative changes have been made. In line with Mr Cymanski's proposal, the project is indeed suitable for such a common attempt to create a good law. We all like this project, we can actually build here. I would urge you to look at the opposition, I am speaking to the Members of the Law and Justice, often more kind, because most of us are prostates and no one really wants bad for their country. Many of our ideas are well-founded, good, hard to think about, but as we will see the list of amendments tabled, all the opposition amendments go to the basket, while only those are exposed, which are from the PiS. I agree with this community of creation and action, but I ask the other side as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u295	I invite Mr Ireneus Profit to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u296	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. The Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovation is not only an important step towards combating smog, but also towards combating energy poverty. This problem concerns more than 4.5 million people in our country, mostly villagers and small cities. The vast majority of them, because as much as 75% He lives in single-family homes. This means that every eighth Polish citizen faces a dilemma, whether to warm the apartment or limit other goods. Low emissions, i.e. pollution coming from the chimneys of unheated single-family houses heated so-called. Cinderella is one of the main causes of smog in Poland. According to the report of the European Court of Auditors every year as a result of environmental pollution in the European Union dies, attention, about 400 000. persons. The related expenditure for treatment amounts to hundreds of millions of euros. It is estimated that every year contaminated air in Poland is the cause of premature death of 45 thousand. persons. Repair of the existing state of affairs requires the implementation of an integrated programme that will achieve the following objectives: improving the situation of less affluent households, improving air quality in Poland and improving energy efficiency through the thermomodernization of residential buildings. The draft amendment to the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernisation and Renovation, which will enable municipalities to finance and carry out thermomodernization and exchange of high-carbon heat sources in single-family residential buildings of energy poor households, is an important element of the government's "Clean Air" programme announced in early 2017. The programme envisages spending more than PLN 103 billion from the state budget for this purpose in 10 years. This is an unprecedented situation in the history of the Third Republic. A similar programme has never been proposed so far. He is fulfilling the promise made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at the exposé. It is also the implementation of the "Stop smog" initiative presented by the Chief of Government in February 2018, announcing the pilot implementation of a programme to support residents of single-family homes located in the 33 most polluted localities in Poland on the 2016 World Health Organization list. In addition to the measures aimed at the thermomodernisation of single-family residential buildings and the exchange of high-carbon heating sources, a thermomodernization tax credit, which is to be introduced from 1 January 2019 in accordance with the draft law on personal income tax adopted by the government. Poles were able to benefit from a large construction and renovation relief in 1997 and 2001. The latter was the most popular of all tax reliefs, each year 8 million people used it, since it could be saved more than 6.5 thousand. PLN spent on building materials, their transport and labour. The reliefs were erased under the SLD because they were too expensive for the budget. Only as a result of the repair relief, taxpayers deducted about PLN 2 billion a year. The revised regulation responds to citizens' expectations and by introducing a tax credit it will really help to improve, increase the number of thermomodernizations of buildings. Mass-modernisation of a large number of single-family houses in the municipality will benefit the entire local community. Savings for reduced heating and electricity charges can reach up to a dozen percent. The plan of mass thermomodernisation in the municipality will probably bring other additional benefits, e.g. new jobs and technology development. In addition, there will be social benefits of reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases - reducing treatment costs or losses caused by dust-related diseases. In our view, in order to achieve the intended goal of improving energy efficiency, the law on multi-family buildings needs to be extended globally in Poland. I agree with one of the previous speakers that housing communities should also be included in this programme, as should the possibility of using filters or other low-emission devices. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Circle of Free and Solidarni Members [[♪ The bell ♪]] supports the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u297	Thank you very much. We're going to ask questions. I'm closing the list because I don't see anybody else coming to the question at this point. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15 begins. You're welcome. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u298	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question as to whether you have also considered in any way leaning on people living in multi-family buildings in larger cities and helping them, because there the problem with smog is a real problem, and which people have a problem joining the existing one, I would like to point out: the existing heat grid. Yeah, for example. is in Opole, where some tenements are connected to the heat grid downtown, others are not connected. It turns out that the cost of connection is high enough that not everyone can afford it. In view of this alternative, less wealthy people are condemned to continue using cinderellas. So if we look at the issue of thermomodernization, if we look at the problem of smog and want to fight it, it's worth doing. It's in a comprehensive way. Therefore, my question is: Do you foresee any solutions aimed at e.g. tax deduction or any action that would help people living in multi-family homes, houses or blocks that could be connected to the city's heat grid, but they are not because it doesn't pay off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u299	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the inhabitants of Silesia, especially Gliwice, who are regularly suffocating from smog in winter, thank you for any legislative initiative that gives real opportunities to reduce the cost of action to improve air quality. I would like to ask from this place whether the government also provides for tax relief in the future related to the costs of joining system heat, which in areas of compact construction seems to be the most advantageous way of eliminating low emission sources. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u301	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u302	Question for the Minister. Why did you exclude multi-family construction from this law? Why you have limited the possibility of using this aid to citizens of more than 100,000 cities. The residents? So this is a limitation. Are you going to compensate for the loss of city income in the Local Government Income Act? And one more thing - the Minister of Environment is sitting in the courtroom. That is not all, because the effect, i.e. tax deduction, because we buy in 2019 and we are only counting down from 2020, we will talk. To the Minister of Environment. The Minister of the Environment is not responsible because they say the Minister of Energy is responsible for this. Coal standards. You were in Mielec. After all, you know perfectly well what environmental pollution is caused not only by the work of plants but also by the use of boilers in single-family homes. That's what we need, and the Minister should tell us in this courtroom. This is not a Polish resort, unless the state has such a policy - a Polish resort. And as for the amendments that have been tabled, we will talk about them, but there is a big request. There is still time, the possibility, in the Senate, to extend the bill on the issues of multi-family construction, small cities [[♪ The bell ♪]] and connection to the heating network.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u303	Thank you. I invite Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform, who will ask another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question has already sounded in the name of the club, here I am thinking about a very clever plan of this project, which assumes loud and huge solutions regarding the government's thermomodernization grants, and as it turns out, the state will not finance it in any way, but, of course, this is the financial core of this project, it throws it on the shoulders of local governments. Hence, the very resounding question about how you plan to cover the losses of local governments, so that this declaration of real state support is real and real. Will you support our amendments, and will you perhaps find another way to compensate for these losses to local governments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u305	Thank you. I invite you to ask the question of Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As soon as this bill was made, it was really people, society, and I come from such a poor society of Warmia-Mazury land, from Bartoszyc, it was satisfied that they would have the means to improve the warming of buildings, i.e. there would be less cost of maintaining these buildings. But I'm gonna go back to the housing problem, or you're not gonna get it, because if I look at a block like this and I see 20 and 50 stoves, I think all the stoves are burning. It is known that this is a really big pollution, so aren't you expecting the housing community to be included in the project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk also spoke at this point and I should be the first to speak, but I know that you have agreed that the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance will first speak to Minister Filip Świtała, so please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your questions. I'll be brief. The issue of multi-family buildings appeared here, and this was the question asked by several Members. With these multi-family buildings, there is already an instrument of state support for the thermomodernization and renovation of residential buildings. These are bonuses paid from the thermomodernization fund. I think that the Minister of the Environment will answer this question, but as regards tax incentives for networking or any other tax relief for multi-family housing, I think that perhaps in the future we will be considering some steps in this direction. With regard to the question of the loss of local government because we grant relief and local authorities will lose their income from PIT, I would like to mention that we have a package of laws, which together with this project - i.e. not together, but alongside this project - has been examined. That's for example. Seym printing No 2860: amendments to laws on income taxes on natural persons and legal persons and amendments to the Tax Order. We anticipate the positive impact of these projects on the revenue of the public finance sector - at PLN 1.5 billion in 2019 alone. During this period, the revenue of local government units will increase by around 350 million. So that we think that these sources of funding for the local government exist in the proposals that the government has put forward together with all the tax laws that have entered the Sejm. I think it's actually covering the government's losses. I would add that in 2018 alone, from January to September, as a result of previous government measures concerning the sealing of the tax system, income from personal income tax and corporate income tax revenues increased. During this period, as far as PIT is concerned, they were around PLN 78 billion and were higher by around 14%. than in the same period of 2017. On the other hand, corporate income tax amounted to 33 billion and was about 16% higher than income in the same period of 2017. Therefore, I believe that the government is taking many steps, from different sides, so that local governments have additional influence in these influences from PIT and CIT - in those that are already being implemented, which actually come. Government already has a share in these influences, so that we think the government has done a lot to secure these influences for local governments. I think that's all the questions about tax issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u309	Thank you, Minister. Now I invite the Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u310	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This law introduces - and about the first thing we almost forgot, and this is also extremely important - tax exemption, so to speak, from subsidies received under the Clean Air programme. The Clean Air programme consists of many elements. Today's discussion focused on tax relief, which is only one of the components of this programme. It is not like the honourable Member said that we are not doing anything, but we are moving everything to local governments, that local governments will pay more than anyone else. No, the Clean Air programme is a programme in which a subsidy is expected to depend on income, on the wealth of the family - from 30 to 90% costs incurred. Of course, part of this grant is turned into a tax credit. So this grant still exists and there is another element in this law, I stress, unnoticed: the grant is exempt from PIT income tax. That's the other element. Now maybe, as I'm talking about the whole program, I'm going to talk about the 103 billion PLN. So this is where we need to be clear and clear... We've got to watch this. In this PLN 103 billion involved by national and voivodship environmental funds, also within this amount, this tax credit is included, i.e. the effects of this tax credit, but also some 40 billion loans, because this programme also provides loans for people who cannot afford to pay their own share of their current funds. They will receive a loan, very cheap, on preferential terms, to be able to secure their own share. The idea is that at any time anybody, even without money, can afford to carry out both the thermomodernization and the replacement of the furnace. This amount, once again, will consist of a non-refundable amount, over PLN 60 billion. from tax relief, from subsidies from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, from the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, also from the Operational Programme for Infrastructure and Environment - or maybe otherwise it will be called in the future financial perspective - the European programme, also from the Norwegian programmes. So this is a whole set of financial resources foreseen for 12 years, because the programme is foreseen for 10 years when it comes to the proposal. The implementation period is 2 years after the application was submitted, so it is 12 years. These are all the ingredients that point to the source of funding for this programme. The self-government component is practically a fraction of the percentage in all of this. Besides, the Minister mentioned another form of compensation for local governments. That's what this show looks like. The next question concerned multi-family buildings. That's right, there are thermomodernization programs at the moment. Maybe they're not perfect. At the moment we have adopted the Clean Air programme, and this is part of the programme, and in a moment there will be a law on thermomodernization, which is particularly dedicated to cities with the largest pollution scale. Of course, it is dedicated to these cities of the largest scale of air pollution and less than 100,000. residents. This is just part of this program, while all cities over 100,000. they will be able to benefit from this general scheme of clean air. No one will be left out here. As far as multi-family buildings are concerned, of course, we will think about it in order to modify this program, which is currently functioning to make it more attractive. According to the research, 62% of air pollution is due to buildings, single-family houses by heating them. We start with what is the biggest cause of air pollution. We are starting to implement this programme, it can actually be said that we have already started to implement it, because the selection of proposals has been taking place since 19 September this year. As regards connection to the network, I would like to remind you that the eligible costs for this scheme are also the costs of connection to the district heating network. Mrs Skowrońska, who asked about coal standards. Quality standards for solid fuels have just been introduced. The Minister of Energy did this, of course, after an inter-ministerial consultation. Such standards are introduced. [[Since when? No one's answered me yet.]] The minister didn't say, but that's the obvious thing. Take a look in the diary, see the Polish Monitor. There is a regulation of the Minister of Energy on quality standards. I don't remember the date. [[September 24th.]] On September 24th, my colleagues tell me that quality standards for solid fuels have been introduced. On the other hand, referring to Mielec, as you wish, I would like to say that it was in Mielec that we did the most, all that was possible, although this problem did not concern single-family homes, only a processing plant. In response to this, we have amended the law that allows continuous monitoring of industrial emissions. We've introduced this possibility. This possibility was used by the Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodship and imposed an obligation to apply continuous monitoring to Mielec plants with immediate feasibility rigour. And that's what's happening. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u311	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Szlachta, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u312	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, it is rare in our parliamentary practice that the government project receives the support of all clubs in this basic layer. I would like to thank you for this support and for this discussion at the level of the Committee on Public Finance. But there were differences in the details. There are adjustments. I think that we will adopt these amendments at the next meeting. Mr Grabowski wondered how to go beyond the definition of a family home. I think, out loud, I think that the segments in the private buildings, the condominium will also be covered, but we'll sort that out in the committee. So that it would be good for other draft laws to be adopted in a similar consensus, in such a peaceful discussion. I would like to thank you very much for this discussion on behalf of the committee and on behalf of myself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u313	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws (prints No. 2906 and 2926). Mr Bogdan Rzońc will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present a report on the government bill amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws, print no. 2906. On 12 October this year, the project entered the Sejm. On 16 October, it was sent to the committee for its first reading. The first reading took place on 22 October and work in committees took place after that first reading. During the work of the Infrastructure Committee, amendments were tabled only of an editorial and legislative nature, which is why I request that the committee adopt the report, which was included in print 2906, in the form that is attached to it. The bill is very important. The Act is fundamental to improving air quality in Poland. The Act simply provides for the mobilisation of a financing mechanism for thermomodernization projects of single-family residential buildings combined with the exchange of outdated high-carbon heating sources in single-family farms affected by energy poverty. This bill will simply help poor people who have not yet had the opportunity to improve the quality of their buildings and energy sources. On behalf of the committee, I request that this draft be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u315	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite you to speak with Mr Puda, who will present his position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u316	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the bill being proceded. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, for many years Poland has been in the forefront of European countries - one of the most polluted air. This applies not only to suitable designs such as suspended PM2,5, PM10, but also to benzopyrenes, nitrogen oxides, etc. In fact, in 2016 33 Polish cities were placed on the list of 50 cities in Europe - one of the most polluted air - on the World Health Organization's list of 50 cities. The list updated in 2018 included 36 Polish cities and what is important - eight new cities appeared on it. As a result of this project and the work that all the Members of the Committee on Infrastructure and Members of Law and Justice have shown, I dare say that the draft and these amendments lead to a significant improvement in the situation in Poland in the near future. This is not only about the quality of the air itself, but also about the costs associated with the functioning of our Polish families. It is also a matter of making sure that these old stoves are used as little as possible by Poles. In the light of the amendments and the work we have put in place and we are still doing on this project, the Law and Justice Club will have a positive opinion on this draft law and will support it in the next vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u317	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Krystyna Sibinska, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the opinion of the Civic Platform Club regarding the bill under review. The bill is, by its very nature, good as many laws, but also, like many laws, in detail, as we read it, unfortunately it must be said that it is a discriminatory project that excludes citizens of large cities from being able to apply it, in which we can also find energy poverty. Because we do not see the basis for dividing Polish citizens into those who will be able to benefit from this project, and on those who will not be able to. I feel like this is some kind of PiS revenge for losing in the election, right in the cities. At the previous meeting, you ruled out the city's ability to use the money to build roads. Now you're ruling out the money for thermomodernization. The rules must comply with the constitutional principle of universal application, and we will therefore propose an amendment to remove this provision on the limitation for cities above 100,000. residents. Next thing you know, it's an art. 11f. We want to cross it out, because if we're gonna fight smog, then why are we gonna punish someone who's been subjected to this process of thermomodernization, but the circumstances have so come together that, for example. He sells the house and is to be punished for the fact that, after all, this object has been corrected, that the furnace has been replaced? It's not like we're funding a man. We're funding an object. We want as few objects as possible with low emissions. Next thing. Mr President asked me to say that this is a very important bill and it will help many people. It will help, Mr President, but only in three years, because only then will the programme come into force in real terms. 2021 is the first year in which money is provided for the consummation of this law. We will therefore propose an amendment. Because if it stays the way you're proposing right now, that's fiction, that's it. Just sobbing someone's eyes because you say you're fighting the smog, but this fight is off, and you want to help those poor people, but you're not gonna be able to help them for a while. The World Health Organization in the list mentioned by my predecessor... There were 33 cities there in 2016, but already in 2018 eight Polish cities arrived, and in 2021 it could be another eight or 10 or 20. So why are you already eliminating not only these eight cities over 100,000? on the World Health Organization list, but perhaps just another one? That is why it would indeed have to be eliminated. You exclude because these are cities such as: Kraków, Katowice, Sosnowiec, Gliwice, Zabrze, Bielsko-Biała, Rybnik, Tychy, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Kalisz. These are the cities in which we should primarily fight smog and where air pollution is very high. As I said, we want to make amendments, because I think that speeding up these actions is precisely the way to fight smog and help the poorer ones, as you have said, because we have just been working on a bill saying that tax write-offs can be used. It will already be possible to benefit, and in case of helping these poorer people we will only be able to do so in three years' time. So that, Your Marshal, I am making amendments, and our club's position depends on how these amendments will be adopted by the committee and by the parliamentary majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u319	Thank you very much. Krystyna Sibińska spoke on behalf of the Civic Platform and I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll admit that I'm a little confounded, because if we're talking about the whole smog program, if we're talking about a certain thermomodern project, I'm surprised to see that the issue is broken down into two prints, which de facto separates five numbers, because we have print No. 2906, and just now there was a so-called print No. 2901. Thermomodernization tax relief. I wonder if it is sometimes a kind of marking of the game, because here so many drafts set, so to speak, the Sejm will accept, process, but after all, the amount of these laws will not actually change the quality of the air itself. I can honestly say, Minister, that I do not understand the exemptions that you provide in these arrangements. I don't understand these preferences, I don't understand the distinction between smaller and bigger cities. Well, in smaller cities and in larger cities there are the same Poles who have the same problems with smog. The smog problem is a universal problem. Of course, in larger cities, this problem may be more intense, but in a strange way, you are shutting down larger cities from this program. He's chasing absurdity. Perhaps the Minister will be able to point out what is really going on here, because the aims of adopting these solutions are, in theory, noble and good, the law is nicely called: the law on promoting thermomodernization, but the question is: Is this law even in line with the constitution? After all, according to the constitution, everyone is equal to the law, so on what basis, on the basis of which the inhabitants of one city are included in the legislation and will be able to benefit from special preferences, and the inhabitants of other cities will not be able to benefit from these preferences or will be able to use some additional... That's what it was called here: in an individual way. So, Minister, I'm sure it's worth talking about thermomodernization. I repeat once again: It is worth talking about simple, simple solutions, because energy poverty is indeed a problem, but not always for the poor the best solution is very expensive thermomodernization consisting of e.g. for the boiler exchange. I'm going back to those electromagnetic filters again. I very much hope that during the work of the committee there will be experts that you may have and present some of your analyses, that eventually we will come to an agreement which is the best, most effective and not necessarily the most effective solution for thermomodernization. But once again, I do not really understand this distinction. I believe that this distinction which appears in the law, which results in the fact that a group of Polish citizens will have the opportunity to benefit from these preferences, and that another will not have this possibility, is unfair. If we're already using solutions, let's apply them to everyone. I immediately thought that the Minister could use the argument that there wasn't enough money for it. Minister, if this were to be the case, I think we need to think first about what we're saying, what we're promising. If you're talking about how you're going to allocate PLN 100 billion to a thermomodernization program, if you're saying that it's such a big problem and that you have to fight smog, then let's all fight together and not on the basis that in some cities this fight is going to be, and in others it won't be. I didn't want to do it, but I'm gonna do one more thing, I'd say, intellectual tour. I would not very much like to see that the exclusion of the largest cities from this programme to promote thermomodernisation has something to do with past local elections, in which law and justice in the largest cities have achieved poor results. If it turns out that it is logical to combine actions that are intended to be supported by you, to put it directly, by your electorate, with omission in some way, not necessarily elegant, electorate, which does not necessarily support you, it would be really... it would look bad. So, Minister, I call for you to consider these exemptions and the deep ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] amendment of those provisions that you are proposing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sowa will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Let me read some names of the towns, because they are very important in the context of this law: Warsaw, Kraków, Łódź, Wrocław, Poznań, Gdansk, Szczecin, Bydgoszcz, Lublin, Białystok, Katowice, Gdynia, Czestochowa, Radom, Sosnowiec, Toruń, Kielce, Rzeszów, Gliwice, Zabrze, Olsztyn, Bielsko-Biała, Bytom, Zielona Góra, Rybnik, Ruda Śląska, Tychy, Opole, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Elbląg, Płock, Wałbrzych, Włocławek, Tarnów, Chorzów, Koszlin, Kalisz, Legnica. I listed 39 Polish cities, the largest in which he lives at least 100,000. residents. In these 39 Polish cities together there are about 10 million Poles, citizens who are treated differently by the PiS are excluded from the possibility of applying for funds to improve their standard of living. I wonder what these cities have in common that PiS doesn't like them so much. They're connected by the fact that you got a terrible beating there a week and three weeks ago. It connects these cities. But these cities can't be punished. I, of course, make an amendment on behalf of the Modern One, so that the elimination of these Polish 39 cities is removed, because we all heard, as individual ministers... For example, Minister Kwieciński played with the candidates of Law and Justice for the presidents of these large cities and said: money will flow there when they win. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to be a law. This is absolutely unacceptable, that is discrediting your political formation - such an attitude that you eliminate the possibility of applying for funding. Even if someone is speaking, because Mr Grabowski is also talking about the financial premise here... Ladies and gentlemen, PLN 104 billion, so much is to be spent on clean air within 10 years. I asked in my previous speech what amounts would be allocated. And what did the Minister say? Minister Kowalczyk replied: "Infrastructure and environment, if it is, from voivodship funds, from national funds." Minister, I know exactly what instruments these types of tasks can be financed from, but I am interested in what these institutions have budgets for this purpose, how you intend, how the Government of Law and Justice intends to support, capitalise, subsidise these projects. From the fact that you listed 10 potential sources of funding here, nothing came up. In that law there were 5 billion, in this law with a hill it is a billion, because probably in fact 180 million in 2017 and more than 700 million, which are intended to be financed, is a thermomodernization fund. I'm not criticizing this solution. I believe that this is a very good change that the thermomodernization fund is expanding and will also be able to finance single-family buildings, I absolutely do not deny this undertaking, but it will not raise 104 billion, that, Minister, will not raise 61 billion for grants. You must present a real programme, and I am surprised that you did not come to the High House to have a comprehensive debate on the Clean Air programme here, so that you can show concrete data, a specific time schedule, concrete projects, how these tasks will be carried out and how we will improve the standard, air quality in Poland in each year. Because the problem is indeed. I wouldn't be surprised, Minister, if you, instead of the population criterion, accepted the criterion of the number of days in which air pollution standards are exceeded and said: we are short of money, so we are mainly posting cities or municipalities where we have the biggest problem with air quality. It's not like it's culpable by some local government. After all, the Minister knows it very well, I know that in Krakow we will exceed the standards because Krakow is so, and not otherwise located, that it lies in the boiler, that there is no ventilation. It's just... Even if we replace 100% the boiler will be built by the Krakow ring road, we will eliminate the communication emissions to a large extent, we will still have a problem with keeping standards, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because this is the specifics, completely different from in north-western Poland. But you're not doing this, you're eliminating cities for some unknown reason to show them who's in charge here. Marshal, I'm calling for an amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u323	Thank you very much. It turns out that in the Silesian Voivodeship, an awful lot of these cities will not benefit from this, and this is a specific region, long contaminated, so maybe this amendment will be taken into account. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats made his statement on behalf of this club in writing. So let's move on to the questions. We begin with Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15. I don't see anyone else wanting to sign up for questions, so I'm closing the list. And the Member has, like the other Members, 1.5 minutes to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure it's less than 1.5 minutes, because I have a general question. However, do you provide for the departure from this Ministry Poland, which we discussed in the previous point? 'Cause I feel like... A moment earlier, as we discussed the tax arrangements of the competent Ministry of Finance, this was a separate point, separately processed, different printing number. When we talk about environmental or infrastructure solutions, this is a separate point, a separate print number. Maybe, ladies and gentlemen, it's worth doing it comprehensively, once and for all. From the information I have - but maybe I will use these 1.5 minutes - it appears that this project will actually be 2 years old already, in the sense: those rules which materialise a certain idea expressed by the Prime Minister, so it is difficult to recognise that this is being done in some great hurry, and since the problem is urgent, it would be justified to rush here. But on the other hand, since it took you so many months to get to the point where we are working on these regulations today, you didn't do it very quickly, maybe it's worth thinking about the future. Let us already adopt these regulations, corrected of course, so that they do not discriminate against anyone, but it is really worth less in the future, and better, as Lenin said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u325	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the following question: Will it also be possible to implement RES installations as part of a low-carbon project, e.g. in the form of solar panels for heating water? Please also clarify the subject of making the property available for RES micro-installations to be owned by the municipality. I am particularly interested in the principles of using the profits of a micro-installation to support families who are unable to carry out a low-carbon project. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u327	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you why the law restricts the actions of municipalities to towns with up to 100,000. residents. I don't really understand why it's up to 100,000, e.g. citizens of the city of Bielsko-Biała will not be able to benefit from support. Isn't that a discriminatory solution? After all, we have single-family homes in large cities, whose owners are people who meet the statutory criteria for thermomodernization support. Is it not possible to introduce universal access to these solutions regardless of the size of the village? Fighting smog in large cities is often bigger than in smaller cities. Maybe in this field we should not divide Poles into those who are due and those who are not due. Maybe from the ruling option of these divisions, that's enough for today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u329	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, will ask another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u330	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Your Marshal, I am also surprised, as you are, that 10 million people, 39 cities over 100,000, have been excluded from this program. residents. We're not happy about it, that's the first thing. On this regulation, fuel quality - Polish Smog Alert is not satisfied either. Our standards are much higher than those of 2015 for solid fuels indicated by the European Commission concerning moisture content, high sulphur, ash - more than twice as high; a low calorific value of 18 megajoules per kilogram. So we are dissatisfied with this. So I'm asking because you're introducing a thermomodernization program, and it's supposed to be in place since 2021. After PLN 0.5 million you spend on preparing the programme in 2019 and 2020. Why do you spend as much money in preparation as in implementing this programme? After all, at the start of 2019 these costs will be much lower. Maybe that money could be a lot better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] spend on thermomodernization programs and on fighting smog. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u331	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u332	I wanted to say, Minister, about the low-carbon municipal programmes. This is another document which the municipality will have to prepare and adopt as an act of local law. I have worked in the local government for many years and I know that all such programs are additional costs that the municipality must bear, and they are not always needed. My question is this: How do you estimate the cost of preparing such a low-carbon municipal programme? What powers will those who prepare such documents have to have? Who's gonna do this? Do you already have a pool of your specialists to whom the municipal money will go for the preparation of such programs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u333	Thank you. And Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform, another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! According to the World Health Organization report, 36 out of 50 cities with the most polluted air in the European Union are located in Poland. Among these cities are among others. Katowice, Gliwice, Zabrze, Sosnowiec, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Rybnik, Bielsko-Biała. I mentioned only those cities that are located in the Silesian Voivodeship. Just because they have over 100,000. The inhabitants will not be able to benefit from the thermomodernisation programme proposed by you. Minister! With all due respect, but your criterion, which excludes more than 100,000 cities from this programme, is simply absurd, because outside government support, there will be places where the population density is simply the largest where this aid could be the most effective. I am speaking specifically about Silesia, not only because I am a Member of this region, but also because in a month you will be at the climate summit in Katowice and you will talk about air there. The problem is that you are cutting out a large part of the Silesian agglomeration, quite consciously, from this program that was supposed to help fight smog. I ask you to reflect on this. Here an amendment has been prepared, which eliminates this absurd criterion. I would ask you to bend over this criterion again, because it seems completely irrational. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u335	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's no need to convince anyone that smog kills. It's a good thing the government's trying to fight him. Here we are talking about thermomodernization, which means again we are helping people to spend less on heating from public money. At the same time, I would like the Minister to be able to do so so that these people should not be helped, to finance their thermomodernisation, only that they should earn the money themselves so that they can afford this thermomodernization. At the same time, we hear all the time about huge amounts, millions, billions, and so on, as with every bill, what kind of money is going to be earmarked for this purpose. I would like to ask the Minister how many buildings, in the opinion of the Ministry, because I am convinced that you have such research, requires thermomodernisation and how many years will it take if you spend such money as in the nearest budget, so that we can make this thermomodernization in all the buildings that require it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u337	I invite the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, to answer this and previous questions. I have to say, I'd love to hear it myself. I can't ask a question, and I'm from Silesian Voivodeship. A small town will be able to do this, and it borders with a large one that can't do it, and really the effect will be none for both cities. [[You're right, Marshal.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my great respect and thank you, because it is clear that our very complex, large educational action, which was carried out by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who was the first to implement such a broad programme for improving air quality, has given such an effect that we have today in the Seym... [[Voice from the room: Best joke.]] ...so many specialists, experts in air quality, PM10, PM2,5 dust, filters, electrofilters. This is very happy, because this, I hope, will help us to actually unite our forces and effectively tackle the problem on which, I will remind you, for the first time, the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, pointing to the absence of any legislative, political intervention in the period 2007 to 2015 in this respect, has been brought to the attention of the Supreme Audit Office in a comprehensive manner. The conclusions of this report were confirmed on 22 February this year by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, in the light of negligence, I will repeat this once again - in the years 2007 and 2015 considered it necessary to intervene. Let me remind you that we first intervened, without waiting for what the Court of Justice will say, we started it last year. I am talking about this, not replying directly, I will go directly to the questions, but it is also important that we are aware - because a few questions concerned when we will stop practicing the Polish Ministry policy and we will approach the problems comprehensively - that we have approached this problem comprehensively. Let me remind you that last year, in the Ministry of Development, we prepared a regulation on emission standards for boilers, so that the so-called ones cannot be placed on the market since this year. Cinderella, the basic reason for bad air quality in so many cities, those under 100,000. and those above. At the same time, the Law on the quality of solid fuels was adopted this year and a regulation was subsequently issued implementing it. I will remind you that such attempts have indeed been made, but the hands of the decision-makers trembled in autumn 2015 and neither the regulation nor the law were signed at that time. We had the courage and we did it in a relatively short time. Also at the beginning of the measures taken to improve air quality, we defined well, I think, the sources of this problem, i.e. on the one hand, by drawing up those legislative acts which are intended to eliminate from the market the poor quality of boilers and the poor quality of fuel, on the other hand indicating the source of this reason, namely energy poverty. We realize that it is the energy poverty that makes many Poles today, first of all, living in standards that are definitely insulting, and secondly, they cannot afford to heat their home properly, and additionally, if they heat it, they do it over and over again, because these houses require thermomodernization. Like I said, the program is completely complex and consists of... Coincidence is that we discuss two elements of it, one is universal, wide, addressed to everyone and gives everyone the opportunity to benefit from a thermomodernization relief no matter where they live, no matter how much they earn. The second project, which we are discussing today, addresses the problem of energy poverty, how we are trying to face it. Answering questions about why we chose the city to 100,000. Inhabitants, it must be said that precisely because, as reports show, it is 87% households affected by energy poverty are households in cities below 100,000. residents. In addition, we are talking about the fact that this is our first opportunity to finance the warming of single-family homes, and these houses are much more located in small towns rather than in large cities. Let me remind you that the issue of improving quality, energy efficiency in multi-family homes in cities is functioning quite well thanks to the existing thermomodernization fund, from which funds are being spent just to improve quality, energy efficiency in multi-family homes. If we are talking about resources, we are really taking this project as a pilot, we are talking about 180 million, which were just allocated to the thermomodernization fund at the end of last year. The redirection of these funds to the thermomodernisation of individual homes results from the decision of February this year, when Prime Minister Morawiecki announced the programme "Stop smog" while at the same time referring to the guardian of this programme of Minister Piotr Woźny, who is responsible for all the legislative interventions I have just told you about here, also for the one we are discussing here today. So that's why it's so censored up to 100,000. citizens, because it is there that we have the highest density of people affected by energy poverty and, at the same time, we imagine, we are convinced that intervention in these cities will bring about an improvement in air quality, rapid and rapid, because that is where the problem is indeed the biggest, and in this way we will be able to solve it. Like I said, we're taking this bill a little remotely. Why? Because it was developed in full partnership with local governments. As regards participation and proportion, I will answer by referring to the question asked by the Member, what kind of burden is this and what document we require. We require, because we have learned a lesson about support programmes that have been in force in my native Małopolska over the last years, when the funds that were intended to be used for the exchange of heat sources for greener ones did not go to those most in need. Recently, I presented as one of the examples of the situation that took place in my home Krakow, where such 100 percent support was given to the chairman of the ecology commission of the City Council of Krakow, which received 100% for this purpose. financing. Given the open data from the property statements, I can certainly say that it was not the person to whom such measures should be made. So we learned from it, we learned from it. This programme simply needs to be prepared in a credible way for the final beneficiary to receive 100% support for thermomodernisation. The authorities with which we worked on this bill - I will immediately add - are already prepared today. Probably one of the first cities to carry out such projects will be Skawina, because she has already made an inventory, thanks to which we know exactly how many homes, how many households are in the category of energy poverty to which such intervention can be addressed. So it's not a preference, it's a rational choice. We are aware of the scale of the problem, which is why at the same time the bill leaves a gateway to individual talks with larger cities from the list of the most polluted ones. Probably the issue of negotiation remains in proportion, because the one we have written here, 70% up to 30%, 70 from the state budget, 30 from the municipality budget, is addressed, as we say, to cities with up to 100,000. residents. I will refer to the doubts that you have expressed, indicating that we have a particular political intention here. Let me remind you that the announcement of this bill was notified, as I said earlier, in February this year, and thus pointing out, saying that we want to punish someone... I would like to ask Mr Owl, until recently a marshal, whether the cities he has been eager to mention here, also rightly, punished in the years 2007 and 2013 when no intervention, literally none, to any of the cities - neither big nor small, was addressed. As physical and material evidence, I can identify the Śląskie voivodship, which here is the subject of concern of so many of you, after all, managed by you over the past years. I do not know if you know how much the regional programme has allocated to the exchange of non-organic heat sources. I don't know if you're aware of that. 0 PLN. Yeah, it's 0 zloty. This is the scale we're talking about, the scale of exclusion. So if you're saying that we're punishing anyone, then we're not punishing anyone. From the beginning, we talked about who this program was addressed to. In addition, I will just add how good and comprehensive this program is. Minister Piotr Woźny is also in constant consultation with the European Commission, so we know that this is one of the more interesting and better assessed programmes at the moment. We hope that this legislative intervention will also be a benchmark for similar solutions also in the next financial perspective. Thus, we do not discriminate, support those most in need, having funds in the state budget and providing them for this, with full awareness and calculation, to how many households this aid will go to and how it will not only improve air quality, but also increase the energy efficiency of individual farms and per balance of the entire Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u339	Thank you, Minister. [[There was no answer to the question.]] The committee rapporteur, Mr Bogdan Rzońc, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you Members for their work on the committee. Of course, due to the fact that amendments were tabled, tomorrow at 3 p.m. There will be a committee meeting, so I would like to invite you to the next part of the discussion. But to be warned, sometimes the enemy of good is better. I think that this is a very good bill and this proposal, which was discussed extensively by the Minister and earlier by the Minister, will really find recognition in society for the fact that it brings help to the poorest. It absolutely deserves attention and adoption, a swift adoption by Parliament. Thank you very much for your work and I invite you tomorrow at the hour. 11.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u341	Thank you. After this speech, the discussion is closed. [[Polish People's Party Association - Union of European Democrats]] [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the government bill amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations.]] [[The draft amendment of the law creates legal and financial bases for the implementation of pilot low-carbon (thermal-modernisation) projects, which will be addressed to families affected by the so-called. energy poverty. It is about families living in single-family buildings located in smaller towns.]] [[In practice, public funding is foreseen, inter alia. heating houses and replacing obsolete boilers or coal ovens, i.e. not meeting emission standards, for greener heating, solid fuel boilers meeting emission standards and gas boilers or connection to heating networks.]] [[According to the project, PLN 180 million will be allocated to pilotage in 2019 and PLN 703.2 million will be allocated between 2021 and 2024.]] [[In the first place, the funds will go to cities with less than 100,000. residents. The planning and implementation of low-carbon projects will be the responsibility of the municipality. As a general rule, the person who will carry out a low-carbon project in a single-family building will not incur any fee. In the case of cities of up to 100,000. The municipality's 70% low-carbon programme will be financed by the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund and 30% by the municipality. In the case of cities with more than 100,000. the population must have a share of more than 30%.]] [[The PSL - ED Poselski Club, despite some shortcomings in the regulation, supports the bill.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 7 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see and can't hear, so I'm closing the list. We will start with Mr Grabowski from the Kukiz club15, but I am now announcing a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 35 hrs. 21 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, to make a declaration to the Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u342	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're behind the municipal election. From this point on, I would like to thank all those who had the courage to fight in these elections, all those who have engaged, started or supported the starting candidates. Thank you very much to all those whose struggle has had a positive effect. Congratulations to all those who got the tickets. In particular, I would like to congratulate two people, two fighters: Grzegorz Zawislak - the new mayor of Prudnik, who showed extraordinary political maturity, even though he had never run for local elections before. He was given a huge credit for trust, which in my opinion is the result of his mature attitude of seeking fields of cooperation and seeking consolidation, not necessarily sharing or acting on the wrong emotions themselves. Dear Grzegorz, congratulations. On my part, of course Prudnik, the prudish women and the prudnicians have full support. With regard to all the projects that will require the support of Members, of course, there is my full support. I think that also local Members from Opole, who actively pay attention, care about the interests of individual cities, towns and villages of Opole region. I think that in this respect, after this turbulent campaign time, we will move on to good work and good cooperation to strengthen our small local communities. At the same time, I could not fail to congratulate our President, Wojciech Bakun. Wojtek, you've made an amazing campaign. You've achieved an amazing result, an amazing effect that we can actually, I hope, draw inspiration for further action. I very much hope that, above all, the residents, because in these elections the most important were the residents... Unfortunately, I regret what I have already noted that in the public debate, after the announcement of the results of the local elections, the inhabitants disappeared as this foundation, the basis around which the debate is taking place, and unfortunately there is a discussion of positions, percentages, support posts, coalitions, etc. I very much hope that in the case of Prudnik and Przemyśl and other cities, where there are councillors, mayors, mayors or city presidents associated with Kukiz,15 and supported by Kukiz,15, but constantly and consistently in the first place will be residents. Ladies and gentlemen! Congratulations again. Well, let's get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u343	Thank you. Another parliamentary statement will be made by Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u344	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today has multiplied passions around the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, passions intertwined with reason, speculation, manipulation and hostility, but also care about moderation. They intertwine like a kaleidoscope. They're messing with the law. They exclude some, stigmatizing and unduly accusing others of guilt not yet committed. Some communities refuse Poles the right to a worthy, community and joyful celebration of the anniversary of independence. By calling for the necessary reflection and correction of attitudes towards this celebration, I will first ask the President of the Brightest Republic of Poland for the presence on this march right here in the capital, among the hundreds of thousands of compatriots who will come from all over. I know that it is planned to stay on Lubuskie land in my district, but in view of the temptations of desecrating this holiday to us, it seems to me that here in Warsaw you belong with the protestants on the March of Independence. At the same time, I address my encouragement to the participants of the march, so that by their conduct, their attitude during the march in no way detract from the honor and respect of the fact that we will participate in it not for our own glory here and now, but in gratitude to all those who have fought Poland's independence and have shaped it for years, so that at any moment of our joyful march we will give no basis for anybody to interrupt it, forbid it, disrupt its course. Keep an eye on the Independent, keep an eye on the march and its participants. Let us show ourselves full of civic responsibility and let our patriotism in this sense of responsibility for peace, joyous, worthy march take place. At the same time, let's look at the scenes of patriotic events in the county-dominant Poland. Party's gonna start all over the place from November 9th. Local independence marches are also organised in some towns. I have absolutely no doubt that no one will be harassing anyone there, beating around with sticks of resentment and hostility. I know that joy on the faces and proudly glaring eyes directed towards the beating white and red flags will dominate. Why? Because that is the subcutaneous need of our nation: to be together, not one against another, because we already have enough outrageous behaviour of the political class, which does not have enough self-reflexion and modesty in it to understand that they are not a nation, but a notary of its will to make law. Come to your senses, political class, do not defile our nation's most holy memory of its daughters and sons, who gave their lives for its independent existence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u345	Thank you. And I invite you to the speaker of Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice, who will make another message. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're behind the election for local government units. The public has been empathetic for more than two weeks mainly by considering who has won this election. Of course, the media battle achieves this level of emotion, which leaves little room for cool analysis, but what is as important as the outcome of the elections is how they are carried out and the image of the state institutions. In the last few days, I've heard a lot of distressing signals. Firstly, in committees where there was a large number of people willing to cast votes, there was a lack of space, a crowd and order hindering the electoral commission from properly supervising the course of the vote. Secondly, committees setting out the results of voting often did not have the appropriate facilities for work. The schools and other institutions in which the polling facilities were placed started their normal work the next day and the counting continued. Thirdly, errors in the electoral census have been repeatedly reported, both obvious errors during the signing of the vote confirming the vote and the listing of the deceased. Fourthly, it was pointed out to me that the IT system and the higher-level electoral committees allowed a situation in which the committee setting out the results of the vote gave a higher number of votes cast than the number of ballots issued by the voting committee. This is, of course, an unacceptable situation. I would therefore ask the competent authorities of the State to carefully and professionally analyse the choices for the irregularities identified. Special explanations, I believe, are to be expected from the State Election Commission, which has so far mentioned nothing about this. I would also like to take into consideration the need for the High House to make further changes in the way elections are conducted. Of course, we should be pleased to see a significant drop in the number of votes that are not valid in relation to the previous election, but we should not stop there. Finally, I would like to appeal once again: let us not stop trying to get better and better electoral procedures. This requires respect for our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u347	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, will make another parliamentary statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u348	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make a statement about the memory of Stefan Bastyr - the hero of Polish aviation. November 11th this year We will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, and on 5 November 2018 the 100th anniversary of the first combat flight in independent Poland passed. The flight was made by Captain. Pilot Stefan Bastyr. He is one of the less-known Mielec heroes of World War I. The figure of the great and forgotten aviation hero reminded the community of Primary School No. 1 in Mielec on 5 November 2018. On that day, a commemorative tablet of Captain's memory was solemnly erected. pilot, bachelor of the Order of Virtuti Militari Stefan Bastyra, who was a student of this school in 1896. Who was Stefan Bastyr, an extremely colorful character and important in the history of Polish aviation? Stefan Bastyr was born on 17 August 1890 in Ulanów, Niedan County. After his parents moved to Mielec approx. In 1894, he attended the local folk school in Mielec - today's Primary School No. 1 for another three years. He continued his studies in Tarnobrzeg, then in Tarnów, where he graduated. Since 1909 he studied at the Engineering Department at the Lviv University of Technology. After the outbreak of World War I he was mobilized to the Imperial-Royal Army. In 1915 he volunteered to serve in aviation, from which he was assigned to a flight observer school in Neustadt, which he graduated from in January 1916. From October 1917 he served on the eastern front as a technical officer and air observer on reconnaissance planes and later on the Italian front, in the Flik 12D squadron, until April 1918. In total, he made about 100 combat flights, fought three air fights. In May 1918, he was promoted to lieutenant. On 2 September 1918 he joined the Polish Army, then became the commander of the airport in Lviv and the commander of the Lviv Aviation Group. 5 November 1918 Stefan Bastyr and the observer performed on the plane Hansa-Brandenburg C. And with black crosses painted, the first combat flight of Polish independent aviation. On 22 November 1918, he was promoted to the rank of captain and took command of the Lviv Defence Squadron. Its further fate was related to the air fighting, as well as to the construction of new Brandenburg-type aircraft machinery in the Lviv workshop. Ten of them were manufactured. Captain. Stefan Bastyr also fought during the Polish-Bolshevik war. He died in a plane crash on August 6, 1920 during a flight to the sealker. He was buried in the cemetery of Defenders of Lviv, but in the 1970s the communist authorities of the Soviet Union destroyed and devastated the Lviv cemetery of Orląt. Today there is a memorial plaque on the symbolic cross at the Lviv Defenders' Cemetery: Stefan Bastyr's memory. Until now, the history of Mielec aviation has usually started with the history of the Działowski brothers in the interwar years. Today we must also remember Capt. Stefan Bastyrze, recognized as co-founder of the Polish military aviation, the bachelor of the Order of Virtuti Militari. This beautiful figure of the aviator we learned more about as part of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by Poland thanks to the primary school community No.1 in Mielec. The school celebrates the 125th anniversary of the uprising. The patron of this school is her former student Prof. Władysław Szafer, a scientist, a social worker, a protector of nature. Primary School No.1 in Mielec can boast dozens of well-known students in the country and in the world. Among many, I will mention Francisz Sokoła, the interwar government commissioner at the construction of Gdynia or Jan Weryński, Vice President of Lviv. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Second Republic of Poland, the victim of the Katyn crime. Directorates, teachers and students of Primary School No.1 in Mielec thank you for remembering the heroes of Polish independence. I am proud to be a graduate of a school that remembers heroes, and thank you very much for this beautiful lesson in history and patriotism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u349	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Grzegorz Puda, the Law and Justice Club, to make a declaration to the House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After 100 years of regaining independence, we wonder if our ancestors could then assume that we would be able to enjoy independent Poland at that time. I suspect not, because the period during which we regained independence was a very turbulent period. After 123 years of numerous independence attempts, breaks, the efforts finally regained this desired freedom. Unfortunately, this independence has been tested several times since then. She was tested as soon as she was recovered when we were creating boundaries. She was subjected to such a test after more than 20 years, during the outbreak of war, in 1939, and later - I do not want to judge the whole political situation - in the times of progressing communism. After all, we still have it, and we can enjoy it. These events show that independence, like freedom, is not given to us once and for all. On the right and on the left side of our borders we are still dealing with various types of action, which may indicate that we must fight for independence, we must care for independence. One such very positive inspiration to take care of it is this year's anniversary of regaining independence, in which we can see patriotic picnics, school speeches, speeches at various types of school events, and initiatives such as the march already mentioned today. From this point of view, I would like to thank all the organisers of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence - firstly, thank you for remembering, secondly, that they care and above all that they maintain our Polish identity. I particularly thank the President of the Republic of Poland Mr Andrzej Duda and the Prime Minister of the Polish Government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. It is thanks to them that such events as the Independence March will be able to take place - I hope that this year will not be the last time, and the number of participants of such events in Poland will grow with each year. I hope that everyone under the white and red banner will be able to celebrate Polish independence together, regardless of their views, regardless of who believes in what they believe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u351	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club, to make a declaration to the House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u352	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Almost a year ago, in November 2017, I sent a question to the Minister of National Defence about the mourning state in which the burial site of General Mieczysław Poniatowski is located. I asked the Minister, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, who was then in office, to take urgent intervention and to take tangible action by the Polish Army and the Ministry of National Defence, which will lead to the urgent repair of the tombstone of the pre-war General of the Polish Army. My request was addressed to less than a year before the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, which is why I sincerely hoped that the Ministry would take appropriate action to improve the state of affairs so that on 11 November 2018 it would be possible to honor General Poniatowski at the renovated tombstone. Right now we owe special homage and memory to the heroes of our independence. Among them is undoubtedly Mieczysław Poniatowski, who was the commanding officer of General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, and participated in the activities of the Fronts of World War I, and in 1918, after Poland regained independence, he was promoted to general. During World War II, General Poniatowski cooperated with the National Armed Forces. I would like to express my great disappointment at the way the Ministry of National Defence dealt with this appalling case. The Resort responded to my inquiry with almost half a year of delay in relation to the statutory deadline, and this was only after sending the intervention to the Marshal of the Sejm and the President of the Council of Ministers. It took more than six months for the Ministry to formulate an answer containing just a few sentences, which in no way merely announced the handling of the case, but did not even give hope for any involvement of the Ministry of National Defence in this matter. In a letter signed by the Secretary of State Wojciech Skurkiewicz, we read, quote: "In accordance with the provisions of the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the institution competent to take legal action in this case is the Institute of National Remembrance. According to the information obtained from him, this institution does not preclude the completion of a comprehensive repair of the tombstone of Gen. Mieczysław Poniatowski. This response was provoked by my speech to the President of the IPN, in which I asked the Ministry to take appropriate action in the above mentioned case. range. In response to my speech, the director of the Office of Remembrance and Martyrdom stated that: "In the opinion of the Office of Remembrance and Martyrdom, our moral duty is to preserve the memory of Polish heroes. In connection with the above, the staff member of our office plans to carry out a local vision and assess the condition of maintenance of the above mentioned. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. In a separate letter, we will inform the Member of the results of the vetting. To this day, I stress, to this day I have not been informed of the further activities of the Institute. This appalling situation requires urgent intervention, because the present state of affairs and tardiness of the Ministry and the Institute of National Remembrance cannot be accepted. It is an outrageous situation that the devastated tombstone of the General of the Polish Army is exposed to further destruction, and the institutions of the Polish State do not take any action, claiming that they do not have adequate legal bases. It almost automatically raises the question here of what legislative action has been taken to amend the existing legislation. Last week, on All Saints' Day, the case was made public by the publication of the journal Super Express, which posted the article together with a picture of the grieving condition of the grave of Gen. Poniatowski. This is an extremely painful issue, because on both All Saints' Day and 11 November, on the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, the tombstone of the hero of that time remains [[♪ The bell ♪]] In such a disgraceful state. This is another year, when the only activities at the grave are those that are conducted by people of good faith who each year care about keeping order around this place. I appeal from this place to the Minister of National Defence to take urgent and real actions that will result in renovation work at the grave of Gen. Poniatowski. I trust, I believe, that soon the period of marasm and inaction of the institutions of the Polish state in this matter will end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u353	Thank you very much. To make the last statement today, I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Citizens! It's been a few days since the election, since the second round of local elections. You should have a few reflections. What can we say? These elections were not local elections, and they were some strangely ideological elections, where they were not talking about local affairs, but about national matters, i.e. the plebiscite of two major political forces. As for my candidacy, I was the candidate for president of Zamość. I would very much like to thank the citizens of the city for the trust that you have given me and to thank all those who have engaged in my campaign. At the same time, I wanted to thank from this place very much candidates for councillors in Zamość, who did not fight for any magical ones. The list of councillors in Zamość on behalf of Kukiz.15 was alphabetically arranged. These people did not want to have this dream one, but they wanted this idea we had for Zamość to be realized. I also wanted to thank all the Kukiz candidates15 because as a citizen movement during the election campaign we did not use public money, but we did it with our own private money, because in our heart we felt the need for change in local governments. I cannot fail to mention the incredible success of Wojciech Bakun, who achieved a fantastic result in Przemyśl - 75% support, and we will have a very well-managed city. At the same time, I wanted to answer a question that came up, why I supported the PiS in Chelm City. I wanted to say that I didn't support the PiS, but I supported the citizens of Chelm. Chelm is a city that currently has 63,000. residents, and at the same time a city from which residents leave very quickly. According to CUS forecasts, 42,000 will be left in Chelm. residents. It's a tragedy for this town. If that were to happen, it would be a city of pensioners and some administration. Law and Justice Candidate Jakub Banaszek had a programme very similar to the Kukiz programme15, i.e. Economic development of the city of Chełma. I am pleased that after many years of failed rule of the Alliance, candidates or actually representatives of the Democratic Left Alliance, it has changed, because if it were to continue this policy, it would turn out that these forecasts of the CSO will work. I hope that these trends will be slowed down. The candidate for Law and Justice supported all three pillars of the local government of Kukiz.15 We have signed an agreement in writing, which I would like to read now: On 26 October 2018, a cooperation agreement was concluded in Chełm for the inhabitants of Chełm between Dr Jarosław Sachajka, Member of the Polish Parliament and Jakub Banaszek, candidate for Law and Justice in the second round of elections for the office of President of Chełm. Member of the Polish Parliament Dr Jarosław Sachajko supports Jakub Banaszek, candidate for president of the city of Chełm. In connection with the support of Jakub Banaszek in the event of winning the election, he undertakes to implement the following requests: Firstly, to hold an annual referendum on the direction in which the city of Chelm should develop and the amount of taxes and investment. Referral questions could be submitted, among others. social and non-governmental organisations operating in the city of Chełma. The referendum would complement the vote on the civil budget in Chelm. Secondly, to pursue urban policies aimed at reducing local taxes. Thirdly, to reduce the city's debt in 5 years by 10%. Fourthly, to conduct a public policy on the conclusion of contracts by the City Hall of Chelm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An open register of contracts, including their content. They signed - Dr Jarosław Sachajko, Member of the Polish Parliament, and candidate for president of Chełma Jakub Banaszek. I hope that President Jakub Banaszek will comply with the terms of the agreement and that these citizens' demands will be implemented in Chelm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-07-sejm-71-1.u355	Thank you very much, sir. With this statement, we have concluded the point concerning the Members' statements just made. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 8 November 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 08]]
