ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u1	Resume the sitting, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please... I was gonna say silence, but I'm really asking you to stop talking and listen. Ladies and gentlemen, on Friday, Senator Piotr Florek filed a formal request for an adjournment. For what purpose? Well, until the President of the Constitutional Tribunal arrives. Does any of your senators object to this motion? Senator Martynowski? [[I object.]] Yes. In the face of the opposition, we will vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion. I understand there's a request for a break and there's an objection. First of all, I'm going to ask if the senator stands by this motion. Yes? [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] Are you maintaining that, at the beginning of the sitting, we should adjourn? How many minutes? [[Until the president gets here, like I said on Friday.]] Good. We've been in contact with her, and the president can't come, but we're gonna vote on this motion. Who's in favor of Senator Flork's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Well, we can't vote. Please report the results. He's in room 48 senators, not 50... [[Voting No 4]] So let's move on to... [[But there's no quorum. There's no quorum.]] Excuse me? [[There's no quorum.]] Well, if there isn't, we'll continue. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws, printing No 791 and considering this item as point 17th. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. As you recall, we have announced a break in the course of the discussion and we will continue to do so at the moment. Has anyone signed up? Senator Piotr Florek, please. Peter Florek, right? [[Peter Florek.]] Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to add someone else here, but I see that there are no representatives of Members who have signed the proposal. In that case, I will begin with the Parliamentary Print No 2388, the draft law amending the Law. Provisions introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is stated in this paper that Mr Marek Ast was authorised to represent applicants in the draft law. And we have 59 names of Members who signed the bill. During the committee meeting, we noted that, although 59 Members signed the bill, Mr Marek Ast was absent and could not ask applicants any questions to clarify the details. And the Minister told us that this was a parliamentary project, and that is why it is important to address Members in some cases, which was impossible. But I'm gonna start with the justification that's in that print. Although the publication of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March, 11 August and 7 November 2016 is in principle not necessary from the point of view of Polish law, there are reasons why this may be desirable under certain conditions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] First of all, it should be stressed that these decisions were brought in breach of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 25 June 2015 or of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 22 July 2016. This means that the mere fact that they are determined by the Constitutional Court is problematic. I keep quoting so there's no doubt, it's not my opinion, I'm just quoting the justification. Despite this, it should be noted that they concern laws which have already been removed from the Polish legal order. So they're practically gone, they've been removed. The publication of these decisions is therefore legally indifferent, and although it may raise doubts as to their legality and the clear violations of the procedure which were allowed in their issuance, it appears justified to make them public, with a reference to the particular circumstances which are attached to them. I'll talk to you about that in a minute. The justification for this is to seek to stabilise the legal system and end the conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal, which, regardless of the unjustified and unfair allegations made by its critics, The social assessment of justice and control of the constitutionality of Polish law is negatively affected. In view of the fact that this solution concerns a specific situation, which covers only three decisions which have been issued in breach of the law, the authors of the project propose that a compromise be found. . and publication of these decisions with appropriate notes. That's the justification. Now I'm going to tell you what it was like to work on three laws. They were moving at a fast pace. We know that the first reading began in the Seym on 11 April, the second and third reading on 12 April, and that on 13 April the bill was sent to the Senate. In the morning, at 8:30 p.m., on the day of the Senate's meeting, and we remember that the Sejm finished the sitting on the previous day, probably around 7:00 p.m. on the evening. And there's the committee meeting. There were no representatives of the applicants, no other persons invited, among others. President of the Constitutional Tribunal. As we found out, she was invited, but she was absent. There was only one opinion, the Legislative Bureau, there was no opinion, for example. The Constitutional Court, and it's an important matter, no other opinions... And again this special procedure, the bill was brought to the committee's meeting in the so-called. special mode. And now, ladies and gentlemen, about this opinion. The opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which we received at the meeting... I'm just gonna read some of it. First of all, it is important to point out that the amendment is to be subject to a provision which has been fully implemented and, in this sense, no longer has legal effect. From the point of view of the principles of correct legislation, giving it a new sound is therefore a missed procedure. However, this problem must be seen not as a legislative failure, but rather as a simple consequence of the assumptions adopted by the projectors, which in themselves raise serious objections. The basic question concerning the bill submitted to the Senate is the content of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 of the Constitution, which provides that decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal have universal force and are final. Against the background of this constitutional model, it is assumed that the legislator did not equip any other authority with the competence to verify the Court's judgements in the light of their regularity, whether perceived as substantive justification or as procedural, formal correctness. Now it's about art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the The provision shall not prejudge that decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal in the matters referred to in Article. 188, i.e. related to the control of hierarchical compliance of legal standards, shall be immediately notified in the official body in which the normative act was declared. So the rule makes it clear, there's no doubt about the announcement... It's an art. 2 of this amendment. In any event, it should be noted that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has already issued orders regarding the publication of judgments given in cases... And this is where the three cases are listed. Further: In view of the institutional continuity of the constitutional court and, as a consequence, the continuity of its organs, the personal change as President of the Court is not of legal importance in this context. If, therefore, it is accepted that the order to declare a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is merely a technical act (starts the transfer of the relevant document to the authority responsible for issuing the official journal concerned) and fulfils only a service role in relation to the order expressed at constitutional level for the immediate publication of the decisions of the Court, then also the provision of Article. 2 may be considered unnecessary. And now you can ask yourself, why this change, why this replacement bill. According to the PiS, the legal system is designed to ensure stability. Well, the ordinary law is to interfere with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the case was simple enough to take a vow from 3 properly designated judges. The president would take a vow, sentences would be published, and such a change would not be right. This is another, like, seventh, judicial law. And the play of words began. What's a judgment? What is a decision? Here we have dealt with judgment in the form of judgment and judgment. There's been a long discussion about this, so I'm not going back to that. And here's the big deal. So that we can explain to ourselves, ask the applicants what exactly this law is about... the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken to the Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, and we remember that. Has this initiative been taken under the influence of the European Union, the European Commission, under the influence of the launch of the article. 7, is this change the result of fear of the budget that the European Union will soon adopt? This law is certainly redundant, it does not bring anything, both in the article. 1, which calls the ruling decisions... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking for your conclusion, because it's been ten minutes.]] Yes? I'm just finishing up, okay? [[You're welcome.]] The bill doesn't add anything, so the proposal is simple. This law must be rejected. And that is the minority's request. Just one more little remark about what happened on Friday. I would just like to say one sentence about Mr Czesław Ryszka's statement. That's what you said. Mr Piotr Zientarski is disgusting that Mr Piotr Zientarski does not grow up to the heel of Mr Piotrowicz. There is no senator here, but Mr.Piotr Zientarski, lawyer, defender of political prisoners, representative of the Bishop's curia in Koszalin, was named by you. Unless I didn't understand, maybe Senator Ryszka was wrong, and on the other hand he thought... If not, then the comparison with the U.S. Attorney General, the statement that Mr. Piotr Zientarski wasn't up to his mark, was really wrong, out of place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u3	Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It has been going on since Friday very busy discussing this law, various arguments are exchanged. Well, as far as authors are concerned, they argue, first of all, that there must be an agreement with the European Union, that there must be some compromise, that we do not need this dispute, etc., etc., etc. Well, since I am generally a compromise man and I am always willing to compromise, I have examined the terms of this compromise. And every compromise is that each side accepts some part of the other side's point of view, in something it gives way to. However, I must say that I was very discouraged from this compromise by Mr Waldemar Buda. Mr Waldemar Buda is a member of the PiS, recently very exposed, because he very often speaks. It's like this, I'd say, a rising star. And Mr Waldemar Buda during the discussion on this law in the Sejm, where he presented the position of the PiS So this is not just a separate statement from him, he represented his group's position on this law, said the following. I'll try to quote that. Well, he said, "Dear Sire! Law and Justice consistently support this project. It is a project that is not of great legal value because it does not change, it does not bring anything into legal order, but it is intended to lead to a situation where it will also be an argument in discussions with the European Commission. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I must say Mr. Waldemar Buda, and behind him, I understand, the entire PiS club. Because Mr PiS has represented the view of the European Commission as fools, not only the Commission, but also us and all voters. And with this nice accent I would like to end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u5	Thank you. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that I am standing here with great discomfort, because the bill we are considering relates to the fact that the constitution is clearly broken... [[Oh, the judge...]] ...and it was by the President of the Council of Ministers who did not publish judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal against the law, contrary to the Constitution itself. It is, of course, in a normally functioning country that disqualifies such a person when it comes to the exercise of functions, but we have not been living in normal legal reality for some time now. And since this procedure, as with the various other laws, we are going to talk about some of them today For example, the Supreme Court has led to severe criticism of many international authorities and bodies, including our partners from the European Union, trying to sanction that procedure and at the same time to some extent to satisfy the Constitution. The problem is that there is no ordinary law that could change the clear-sounding constitutional rules. And that's why this has to be recognised in advance. And we all know that. It's too futile. This is not possible because, according to the Constitutional Court's ruling, i.e. judgments should be published and final. You say that these judgments are sufficient to call decisions, without stating what this decision means, and you will already be able to justify that, in my opinion, a disgraceful act of not publishing decisions. Only that you do not define what decisions are, and in the ordinary sense, what the constitutionalists also said from this speaker, in this concept there are judgments, and decisions are final, and their publication is mandatory. So all those who say And at the committee meeting, the Minister of Justice also talked about it, asking us to break the constitution. That these provisions are constitutional, express their opinion. Each of us has the right to have an opinion on every matter, including on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, the problem is that such an opinion, like the opinion of the Prime Minister at that time and until today, has no legal significance. And that's why it insults every rule of law. I don't think it's ever happened in this House before, ladies and gentlemen, that this presentation is short. That any statement contained in the Act would argue with the Constitution. There were laws that had some legal defects, including constitutional defects, which later the Court repeatedly, almost a thousand times, questioned, but such a law, which from the beginning to the end, in every record is unconstitutional, we have not yet had. The senate is what the other authorities stimulates to noble action, from dishonest detracts and passions cools. Once such a motto appeared on the official website of the Senate, but for unknown reasons it was shortened to the first part in this term. And I, behind Frycze-Modrzewski, would like to encourage you today to dissuade the government from unfairly handling an unfair case. It would be necessary to have great disregard for the constitutional authorities and the European Commission to believe that such mockery as this law will be accepted as a good coin. I do not believe it and I believe that it is not enough that this law is unconstitutional, that it does not have any legal significance, it also harms Poland, harms our opinion, international opinion, and is therefore contrary to the goals which it allegedly sets itself. Since Frans Timmermans has repeatedly demanded the publication of the Constitutional Tribunal rulings, this must be done immediately. and that is all that is to be done in this matter if we want to follow the constitution. A separate issue is the responsibility of those who have not yet done so. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, let's not turn the Senate into a ridiculous place. Until now, Mr. Marshal, the Senate of its own free will and by its own choice, one could say that it was right to watch over the constitutionality of the rules, so let us not destroy this image and this acquis, agreeing to the rules which are clearly unconstitutional, which sanction openly unconstitutional proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u7	Thank you. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Guests are gone, so maybe I'll address the President of the Constitutional Court, see if he's watching us. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate, but also during the discussion in the committee, many words were made during the plenary session on the quality of the bill. In fact, it's hard to call it a law; it's gonna put other words on my lips, which I'm gonna talk about in a minute. Now, ladies and gentlemen, two words on what new concepts have been introduced by the parliamentary majority, by the rapporteur Senator. The judgment of the Court of Justice, which is wrong, is stated by politicians. Well, I don't think there's a country in the world where politicians answer the question of whether a given judgment of the tribunal, if there's a tribunal or a supreme court, is legal. But with us in the Law and Justice issue, everything is possible, as you can see. And now we have to ask ourselves whether this bill brings something good. If as Senate we create or co-create law, let's ask what part of the process is to create law. When you look at all kinds of definitions, you can see that creating the law is a set-up of social, economic, international relations, etc., etc. What does this bill correct, regulate? Well, I guess during the debate and the speeches you heard. She doesn't regulate anything, and I think she's indecent when it comes to considering it, and already, God forbid, passing it in the Senate. And now two words about the Senate. During the debate, I asked the rapporteur of the minority, Mr Piotr Ziientarski, who worked for many years as part of the Senate's cooperation with the Court, but he also dealt with important matters, bringing to the Senate the judgments of the Court, i.e. a role that we assigned to the Senate... In the previous term, it worked very well. The conclusion of this debate is, I must say, thanks to the Senators of Law and Justice. On the question of whether the Senate is needed in such a role, I answer no. You've already reduced the Senate's role... Because the bill comes to us at night, we pass it in the morning, and at noon, the President signs it. And the quality of this law, this law in which we participate as Senate, is a clear example of the fact that we are no longer a House of reflection, but we are simply a House that completely obscures the image, the legal image, the clarity of creation and the transparency of the law. Does this bill bring any good to you? Well, you might want to think about it. What were you talking about, Senator Borowski? In this way: if any law is to improve the Polish government's relations with the European Union, it would have to be said yes. But the arguments set out here by Senator Borowski show that those who will read this law would have to have absolutely no English translation. We talked about the fact that it would be good to send it to the European Union. And we asked our colleague, Senator Kleina. That's how he wrote it. In Kashubian. Then maybe the bill will have a good effect, because they will say, well, they have adopted a very important law in the area of the Constitutional Tribunal. That is the substance of this law. After all, in order to print the judgments of the Court, there is no need for a bill, in addition to some commentary. Can I say that the White Paper and this bill are on one level? No, ladies and gentlemen, this white book is, however, a certain value, in terms of volume, because in the middle is what it is, but it is large in volume, and this is the value of the white book, which has been evaluated as it has been assessed. And there's no volume, no value. This is a piece of paper on which the High Senate, having a beautiful tradition of lawmaking in Poland, is sitting. But there is, I have to say, one thing that's good, so that everything isn't bad. Namely Senator rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogacz, said that the bill is to be such a good signal sent to the European Union institutions that we want a compromise. Well, Mr. Marshal Borowski said how this compromise in your edition is supposed to look. But I would like to say that, ladies and gentlemen, we should understand what a good signal is, because if we agree on some conceptual values, it will be easier for us to talk. I would like to give you some examples of good signals from your side that operate in public space. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that at the last convention President Kaczyński sent a good signal to Poles. Namely, he said this thing: well, 2,5 years of taking left money already enough, some have to be returned... [[What does that mean?]] ...and as for the rest, in 2016, we'll see. [[Get to the point.]] [[There was no such thing...]] [[But what does that mean, and who said it?]] Mr. Marshal, during the five-minute performance... [[You're confabulating now. Well, there you go.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm welcome to perform later... Mr. Marshal, you're welcome, and then you can... I'll just finish. [[Good. You're welcome.]] If you ask the marshal, I'll say this left money... [[But please...]] ...is that without regulations and without rules, money is granted. That's it, period. And this is a good... President Kaczyński said: this is a good signal. And that good signal went to Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there are still a few such good signals. This is a good signal, not that there is an illegibility of the bill... A good signal, please countries, was given by young activists of the Polish People's Party on Twitter, on social media, showing how many law and justice activists of various levels hugged money And this is a good signal, this is, ladies and gentlemen, a good signal flowing into public space. A good signal is, ladies and gentlemen, also that every 20, 30 days the Boards of the Treasury companies are changed... [[Mr. Senator, I'm really asking you to get to the point. Okay? Because you're not talking about the bill right now.]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u9	Excuse me, sir. I'm taking your voice out. Let me remind you what we're talking about. We're not talking about everything right now, we're talking about the bill. Let's respect each other and respect our time. Please return to what is the subject of our discussion. You're welcome to go back to the subject. And, please, get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u10	Mr. Marshal, back to the subject... [[Get to the point, please. Get to the point.]] ...I'd like to say again... [[Because you're not talking.]] Mr. Marshal, I know you're still talking to the point, especially in the Belarusian language, but just don't interrupt me, because I'd like to finish... [[Mr. Senator, get back to the subject and don't confab! Okay? I don't speak Belarusian and don't insult me!]] Mr. Marshal, once again, I'd like to... [['Cause I'm gonna cut you off in a minute.]] [[Scandal.]] [[Don't insult the marshal...]] During the debate, the Senator rapporteur used the term, said it was a good signal. I just want to make a statement about what the good signals are from a political point of view, and that is connected with this bill. If the Senator rapporteur says that this is a bill that sends a good signal to the European Union, then I would like to get an answer to the question whether the good signals are also what concerns wages and other things that happen in public space... [[But that's completely out of the question, Senator. You're well aware of that.]] But it's in your opinion... [[Get back to the subject and get to the point. This is the third time I've told you this. Please, get to the point.]] Therefore, I would like to say that we have different understandings of good signals. A good signal from this law, as I said, is not in my view an opportunity for any conviction of the institutions of the European Union that we are on the path of respect for the law. [[We're on this road.]] And that is why I would like to make a declaration on behalf of myself and, I think, of all our fellow senators that we will vote against this bill. Not as a good signal, but as a totally mediocre law that has nothing to do with creating good law in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. You're welcome. [[In corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode? Yes, hello?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I rarely use this mode, but... the case isn't about the subject, but here words have come out of this tribune, repeated repeatedly by the opposition and in the media... And that's why I'm here. [[There you go. That's your right.]] First of all, the PiS convention didn't say a word about the left money, because there was no such thing. There was no money left. And those are the words from the president's mouth or anyone else I've ever heard. That's the first thing. [[I didn't hear it either.]] [[God only, senators like children...]] [[But this has nothing to do with it, Mr. Marshal...]] Well, it has nothing to do with the subject, but... [[Don't disturb me, Senator.]] ...it has something to do with the speech of my esteemed previous speaker. Second thing. These words did not fall and could not fall because the rewards, which I would like to stress, were part of the remuneration and were paid in accordance with the law, according to the budget. The PiS management considered that they should not be paid for political reasons or for any other reason. Yeah, but they were paid according to the law. They were in accordance with the Polish legal system and tradition a normal element of remuneration, which are awards. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. You're welcome... [[Mr. Marshal...]] What mode are you in? [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] But I don't see the need to straighten up the correction. [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] We're not gonna straighten out the correction right now. Thank you very much. Senator Shark. You're welcome... [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Shark. Please, I'm giving you the floor. [[Blackbeard wasn't talking about prizes, he was talking about...]] But I'm asking you to calm down. And don't bother the senator, because it's not elegant. You're welcome, Senator... [[Please sign me up for five minutes...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u14	Thank you very much. I'm used to it. Anyway, I wouldn't mind going straight to the discussion. After explaining. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Once again we meet at the Senate meeting to analyse whether or not to introduce a corrective act into the law, I will remind you: already the seventh Previously accepted, as well as remedial. This is, according to the Minister's information, a bill tabled by Members. There was a rather turbulent committee meeting where we, the opposition senators, tried to find out what basically was the basis and why we were doing it. It turned out that this is exactly the bill that Members brought forward... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry. Gentlemen of the Senators, I apologize, but you're disturbing me. You can talk outside the room.]] [[We're consulting each other.]] [[But this is no place to consult, Senator. You can go outside. You're welcome, Senator.]] Thank you very much. It's hot in here, so... This draft law was brought forward by Members who have probably recently felt the mission of improving relations with the European Union, and this was also the justification. This concerns three decisions, the judgments of the Constitutional Court, and this does not, unfortunately, concern the most important decision, also the decision of the Court. Senator Florek and gentlemen of the senators have basically developed and exhausted the thesis I wanted to make here. However, I would like to raise the fundamental questions that should be raised in this Chamber today. If the decision is not a form of judgment, so it cannot be defined in the legal system and it is, in my opinion, pointless, then why this debate today at all? So there's nothing to discuss today, is there? Because today's vote If you follow this line of reasoning and apply an analogy It will not result legally and can only be an opinion. Should we vote on the Senate's opinion? Finally, can legislation not have any legal meaning in the promotional act be printed? And here I am asking your marshal: so far we have really, in the context of the Sejm, cared for the good name of the Senate. Let's keep it that way. Mr. Marshal, let's not really give ourselves, the Upper House, the Senate, to project or discuss projects that have no legal meaning. And also the request to you that the lie of Senator Radziwiłł, which sounded to our colleague, should not remain in the minutes of the last sitting. Senator Zientarski didn't deserve that kind of expression. [[But it wasn't me.]] [[It's not about Radziwiel.]] [[It wasn't me.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, your work and your activities at the worst... [[I'm asking the senator to correct...]] [[I don't think it's about me.]] [[You were looking at Senator Radziwill.]] Oh, no, God forbid. About Senator Ryszka, who directed unworthy words towards... So I'm gonna ask your marshal in writing to remove those words from the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u15	Please. Any senator may submit a proposal to the minutes in accordance with the rules of procedure. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bobko, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're debating the bill, well, specific, there's nothing to hide. This is a precedent law. And that's why it might be worth thinking about for a while. She makes you think. First, however, I would like to remind you of the origin of this law or the origin of the whole case, the result of which is this present law. I am referring to the dispute concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, the dispute concerning the selection of judges which took place in 2015, the dispute which began Once again, there was nothing to hide about the fact that the political environment wanted to illegally introduce the judges it had appointed to the Constitutional Tribunal, which was read by our environment as an attempt of such political obstruction in Poland, blocking reforms, blocking parliamentary majority by acting by the Constitutional Tribunal. At the moment, it is difficult to determine what would have happened if this test had been successful. But, theoretically, in our legal system, it is possible that a parliamentary majority can be blocked by the Constitutional Tribunal. It's possible. It could have happened. And that was the result of the reaction of our coalition or our political environment. She was part of this process. And it led to a situation, well, a paradox. A good description of this paradox was At least Friday's debate in the Senate. Paradoxes can be debated quite indefinitely. Senator Hare, professor of mathematics and logic, is here with us, he can probably tell us a lot about what paradoxes are in thought. So that here we are in such a paradoxical situation. And through this bill that we're debating today, we're trying to get out of here, and that's how I understand it. From the slightly strange situation we found ourselves in as a result of that political struggle. The element of all this is also, you can say, abroad, the interest of our partners from the European Union, who do not always understand... Well, maybe they don't always have, they don't always have first-hand information about what's going on in Poland. So this bill is also an attempt to explain, to get out of this paradoxical, bad situation that has been going on for over two years and, well, back to normality. And now you can ask yourself, does this law require you to do so? Because I assume that our opposition colleagues are also a little tired of this paradoxical situation around the Court. And I think we'd all like to get out of this situation, and we'd like it to be normal. In my opinion, it's normal. In my opinion, the Constitutional Tribunal today has all the possibilities, instruments, to work in a normal way. And we should acknowledge that and end this dispute. Yeah, but what's new about this bill? It is undoubtedly quite original, so to speak. It is a law, as I said at the beginning, quite original and precedent. In a way, it kind of replaces the paradox with another paradox. I mean, on the one hand, it leads to the publication of judgments, but on the other hand it leads to it in such a way that, actually, it can be said, they are still as unpublished. So, unfortunately, this paradox in this bill is still functioning. Worse still, in my opinion, it also introduces a bad, very bad, and perhaps even dangerous precedent, namely the concept of a decision taken in violation of the law, without indicating the authority... [[Precedents.]] I listened to the discussion and analyzed it as far as I could. This is a situation in which a violation of the law is referred to, precisely, of a judgment taken in breach of the law, but no authority is indicated which would have to find such an infringement of the law. In my opinion, this is an anarchizing element, if there is no body that finds a violation of a rule, then it can be said that the authority is lying on the street, because everyone can say that the rule has been violated, and draw the consequences from it. In the normal legal situation, if there is a breach of the rule, it must be the authority which indicates the infringement, and there must be some sanction for the infringement. And that's not in this bill. With good will and a desire to leave... The opposition colleagues pointed out here that the bill is supposed to be a good signal for the opposition, for ourselves, for Europe. With good will, I think, you might agree to such a narrative. And for such a narrative, I would encourage my opposition colleagues here to do so. The point is that we should try to put an end to this somewhat outdated, unfresh dispute today and deal with current, important issues, after accepting that what was, was, and that the Court today operates in such a composition, not another composition, is a constitutional body and has all the data to perform its constitutional function. That's what I'd encourage here. Finally, one more reflection, more so for ourselves, i.e. It's for the coalition buddies. Well, many of us. I'm taking this very seriously. It is attached to the concept of sovereignty. We have a feeling that in the last 25 years, we haven't appreciated this sovereignty a bit, often as if we've shredded it or, I don't want to say... Well, maybe we weren't attached to her enough. We shredded it a little bit. But we are very attached to her, and this is good. This is also part of a good change. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reflection. What is sovereignty? We are sovereign, we have a sense of sovereignty. And can we not afford to be prepared, within our sovereignty, to listen to some critical voice that flows from our own environment? There's a problem, and there's an area of internal discussion. The element of sovereignty is that we are ready for self-criticism, we are ready to correct certain projects under the influence of the voices of our partners or colleagues in our environment who point to certain shortcomings of such or other solutions. I think we've missed it a lot over the last two and a half years. In my opinion, it should also be an element of sovereignty to admit that sometimes the voice of the opposition can be a sensible voice. And this is completely excluded, isn't it? The openness to taking note of some meaningful voice of the opposition is completely excluded here. But it turns out that we are ready to do some kind of salto mortale with this bill, listening to the voice of our partners and friends from abroad. Are we sure we understand our sovereignty well? Is it sovereignty to accept foreign votes with complete rejection of the opposition's voice and silence of internal critical voices? With this question, I would like to conclude. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u17	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'll start by sending a few words to Professor Bobka. As usual, I am very happy to hear what the Professor says. With some of his words you can agree with some not, but what he says has a beginning and an end, meaning and conclusion. Professor, of course I... I'm going back to what the professor said about the so-called. Left money. I understand that you, as a member of the government, must have felt the recipient of my statement, and that's where this correction came from. I'd like to say this: since everything was okay, Professor... [[Exactly.]] ...and since you're all in charge of hard work, in your opinion, of course, you deserved it, then why are you giving it up? Why is there such a prikaz of the chief of state: give it back, for whoever doesn't give it back will not be on the list. [[Mr. Senator, get to the point.]] Mrs. Marshal, you're welcome... [[Let's get to the point.]] Examples are good, but don't take all the examples... [[Get to the point, Senator.]] I answer to Senator Bobka, Mrs. Marshal. [[Mr. Senator, this is a discussion about a specific bill.]] And I respond specifically to what Professor Bobko said. So, if that's the case, then there's nothing to be offended about. The word didn't come out... The left money, of course, is a literary shortcut about saying... It's not like we're gonna quote all of someone's speeches during all sorts of speeches. That's what it looks like, Professor. And as far as the bill is concerned, I'd like to confirm once again what the professor said. We will be very happy to participate in the creation of the law, which will improve Polish and Polish government relations with the institutions of the European Union and with the European Union. But we shouldn't participate. And that's what our criticism comes from. In the drafting of a law designated by the Professor as'salto mortale'. Well, what we're making here isn't the law. I don't want to use other comparisons here anymore, but let me put it this way: it's not the best law. This is not a law that should be the pride of the Polish Senate. Finally, I would like to say something and at the same time quote, especially to the Senators of Law and Justice, but also to the voters of Law and Justice. Two people about what's going on... And the creation of such laws is also such a part of the opinion about Poland. Madeleine Albright She wrote a book I haven't read yet, of course. I do not know if she is translated into Polish But I read a paper on what she said there. Reviewers wrote that Madeleine Albright wrote that there are two countries in Europe, Hungary and Poland, which I will say by now shortcuts to fit in time They follow a straight path to autocratic governments, where respect for the law and what concerns the whole justice system is lacking. And Freedom House has also recently announced its report in which we join Asian countries such as... I'm not gonna name everyone here. But he joins there, among other things. Poland and Hungary are also clearly saying: Poland is changing and going on a straight path to dictatorial governments. And the laws of the kind that we are discussing here confirm the thesis, confirm the opinion about Poland concerning the creation of law, enforcement of law, and especially the relationship of the executive and legislative authority with regard to the judicial authority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u19	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go. Ten minutes, right? This is the first performance? [[Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! When such a discussion begins on such a legal act, the constitution itself opens up. You don't have to open it, she opens herself up to the art. 190, in which it is stated clearly, clearly, without any doubt, that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal have universal force and are final. Let me just remind you that, in accordance with the previous constitutional provisions before the 1997 Constitution, Parliament had the right to question the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, to accept or reject them. But since the adoption by the nation of the present constitution, Parliament no longer has this possibility. Therefore, everything that is taking place on this bill is simply unconstitutional. We are taking part in a non-constitutional debate squared because the draft of this law is unconstitutional, and it is supposed to seemingly correct the non-constitutional actions of not publishing, contrary to the Constitution, the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which are final. So the whole grotesque of this discussion and the absurdity of this bill is that the bill is simply non-constitutional and is intended to improve the unconstitutional actions of power. Moreover, it follows that this law is unnecessary because the constitution speaks of the immediate publication of judgments whether they are long or short, whether they correspond to the rulers or not. The Constitutional Tribunal is from ruling and power from publishing those judgments. And there's no rift here, there's no room for any kind of freedom. As I hear the argument that this is a step towards the European Commission... Someone will probably also say that this is an opening to the Venice Commission, and it will soon be argued that it is so that there is a good dialogue with the OSCE, with the US Department of State, with the European Parliament, with the European Council, i.e. with all those institutions and our partners who thought that unconstitutional actions were taking place in Poland. Well, then I'm gonna be convinced that you're in the business of appearances and you're putting a serious House, the Senate, into this game. And the Senate really shouldn't be involved in this game of appearances. Because this bill we are discussing is part of the game of appearances with the European Commission. And you have to say it to yourself clearly and openly. I don't think only a child would see it. And finally, you have to remember. that if someone writes in the draft law, and so it is stated, that after publication of those judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal they will have an annotation that they have lost force in force, it further invalidates them. Isn't that grotesque squared? Isn't this just a show that serious people shouldn't be in? Isn't this really a mockery of our constitutional heritage, our constitutional culture, etc.? And of course Senator Bobko is right, as he states that our partners from abroad do not really understand what is happening in Poland. I'll tell you more, Mr. Senator, our foreign partners. I participate in many conferences and conferences in the West, and in the United States, and last Thursday and Friday I was also in Kiev They don't understand anything about what's going on in Poland. And, for example, Our Ukrainian brothers are convinced that they are more advanced in the process of democratisation of their country than we are at the moment, withdrawing from these achievements, which have always been an example for them. And this is incomprehensible to our partners and allies in NATO, the European Union and the Ukrainians, partly also to the Georgians. Because they don't understand it, Mr. Senator, like Poland, which for 20 years was an example, a model, a model of a well-functioning democracy, she could suddenly go down as they went down or on an even slope towards what the senator mentioned, and what at the last conference in Kiev was called non-liberal democracy. This term comes not from me, but from an ally of the PiS, Viktor Orbán. It was he who introduced the concept of non-liberal democracy four years ago as the model for which Hungary is seeking. And what is really happening about the Constitution, about the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, is the road to non-liberal democracy in Poland, a democracy that is not based on respect for human rights and civil liberties, because that is what I am talking about. If you had a genuine intention of taking a step towards the European Union, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, Washington, Paris, Brussels, Kiev and our other partners and allies, first of all, you would not introduce such a grotesque into the Senate's deliberations and second of all, immediately replace the illegally elected double judges with those three judges who were legally elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. That would be a real test of the good will of the ruling majority. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u21	Thank you. Mr. Senator... Yes, Senator? [[I'm sorry, I don't want to be overactive today, but unfortunately I need to be corrected again...]] Okay, let's make this quick.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u22	Yeah, yeah, from the spot. The senator misunderstood my words, saying that our partners, friends from abroad often fail to understand what is happening with us. First of all, in my opinion, Poland does not descend from any way of democracy or freedom, but normally functions, just as it has been for the past twenty years. And if they don't understand, then as a result... Well, I don't want to analyze why it is, but if you talk to them directly, then this understanding of what is happening in Poland is growing and possible. I am convinced that at the moment they certainly understand what is happening in Poland better than they did two years ago when the government of our formation began. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I have to say, I have this growing feeling that a large number of people who have been watching the Senate since Friday don't understand what's going on. Because a small bill, a simple matter to deal with, triggered a debate that's already going on... I don't know exactly how much, but I think it's up to 10 hours or maybe more. The situation is extraordinary in many respects and therefore there is a need for extraordinary measures. I think it's pretty obvious to everyone. We are dealing with the failure to publish several documents of the Constitutional Tribunal and with great pressure to publish them. There's got to be a way out of this. And it seems that it's pretty obvious and pretty easy to understand that you just have to find a way to do it. It is also a fact that, in the legal state that it is today, these documents refer to something that is no longer there. So in this sense, whether they are published or not, they will actually have no impact on the reality in which we are. But the point is that there are a lot of people, also here, in this room, and also outside Poland, who believe that these documents need to be published for order. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the Constitutional Tribunal, like all other authorities of the State, must comply with the provisions that describe it. There is at least a reasonable suspicion that the documents referred to in this Act are contaminated with some kind of disability, above all, with regard to the composition which adopted those decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that we do not know what a decision is, because a decision is a word that occurs in the Polish language, and everyone knows what a decision is. This decision is a kind of decision, a conclusion, that is to say, reaching a sentence, an opinion, a position, and depending on who, and how they adopt such a conclusion, such a decision, this decision can take various forms: decisions, judgments, judgments. But in order for it to have these attributes, it must be fulfilled some conditions that describe the law. And in this case the law also describes e.g. how many judges of the Court must take such a decision. So this disability exists and there is no reason to deny it, because it is, but because, despite this disability, there is a serious part of the public opinion in Poland, and also abroad, which believes that these documents, these decisions should be published, that is what we are doing. And basically on this... After all, it is so simple that there would actually be nothing to debate. This is some kind of compromise and it is an invitation to the opposition state to take part in this compromise in the hope that it will calm the situation that is restless, there is no doubt about it. There were questions to the minister, which caused this anxiety. Well, that's it, that's it. And we'd like to sort things out as we can, and as it seems, we could, taking a step on the one hand and on the other hand, do it. It's together. That's really possible. Meanwhile, the state on the side of the opposition has been acting in such a way since Friday that they are fulfilling exactly what is called the totality of this opposition. You're doing everything you can to go on short circuit. This multi-hour discussion does not lead to any conclusions, decisions, new opinions, but is a form of obstruction. Well, you can see that with your naked eye. To conclude, I must say that your opinions have been particularly dangerous and have already been reported many times, that abroad is too smart to catch up with it. And already the last statement before me simply announced that there would be some who would explain this misunderstanding abroad, as it is. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I'm starting to worry, because it just means that there will be some people who will tell this foreign country not to fall for it, that it's an apparent act, that it doesn't make any sense at all, and that she absolutely doesn't take it for a good coin and for a step towards calming things down. I have to say, I'm worried about this. And finally... Your marshal will allow it, it will definitely be off the subject, but this issue has already appeared in so many speeches, and it concerns me personally... I would like to say that as Minister of Health I have never taken any left money in my life. I worked hard, very hard for the money that I received, also as part of the prizes. I belong to the formation, to the political environment, which goes not into politics to get caught up in, and when it was decided that prizes would be intended for charity, I had no difficulty in getting the money that I had received to pay for Caritas in the hope that they would be used well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u25	Thank you, Minister. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Radziwiłł just said it was a small bill. You've got 100%. Right, that bill doesn't matter at all. But the case, Mr. Senator, it's huge. If, for 2.5 years, legislative action is being taken that dismantles the system of functioning and imprisonment of the Constitutional Tribunal, since the most important judicial authority is subject to politicians, then every moment to remind them... And this condition continues because he hasn't changed. And just because it's sterling right now, it doesn't prevent us from saying that what happened and what's going on is absolute pathology. Since the Minister has allowed himself to make a personal statement, I will answer the senator myself in part. As the senator knows, I know and I'm friends with a huge part of your family. And I'd like to tell you that at the demonstrations in this case, And that's why we're talking about it today, because it was hundreds of thousands of people. I've been demonstrating with a huge part of your family. So at least I'd like to give it back to them because they've gone out repeatedly to protest what you think is normal. Senator Bobko told the truth, there were political actions on both sides. But when I was talking here, from this speaker, about the first changes in the Constitutional Tribunal case, I was talking about this election of 5 judges, I had the pleasure of hearing from you: you, Senator, then voted differently. Well, I voted differently at the time, because I thought that this novel was actually not good, and in this respect, as regards the two judges, I recognised what the Constitutional Tribunal recognized a moment later. And the Platform's governments, most of them back then, didn't discuss this ruling at all. But as for this ruling, which you have repeatedly spoken of and recalled, even the Constitutional Tribunal said that it was an unlawful act... You're talking about it, but as far as part of it, you're saying no, no, no, Mr. President's right, he may not take the vows. Well, it's not... It's a paradox, it's a real paradox. And this is, unfortunately, the anarchy that the professor was talking about. I'd like to go back to what Senator Shark was talking about for a second and expand on that. The Minister, being here, with us, and at the committee meeting, which actually lasted a very long time... And over there. And here I'm going to address Senator Radziwiłł and there were real arguments, there was a real discussion and there were real arguments. Well, the Minister, discussing with us, looked and said: right now, do you think that if a white card comes from the Constitutional Court or something that is not published and cannot be published, then... how is the government going to publish it? Well, that's impossible, that would be against the law. So what I'm asking you is, is what we're doing right now, what we're doing here, what we're gonna do right now, what we're gonna do is get us to abuse powers? I mean, what kind of logic is that? This is a paradox: we call something a white card, de facto something that's even suspended somewhere in space, and we order it published? Oh, no. It's absolutely impossible for me. And that's why we've been talking about this for so long, because we're not just talking about this one sentence here, we're talking about 2.5 years of battles about the truth about change, which we don't think is constitutional, about justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u27	Senator Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think I'm going to use this 10-minute speaking time, because on Friday I spoke quite a bit, presenting a minority proposal, as well as answering a number of questions. But I would like to emphasise some points once again in the context of the discussion that has gone on, also today. We're talking about some paradoxes, yes. And I'm glad if I'm satisfied that Professor Bobko, with a deeper reflection, presented the problem even in context. Which I absolutely agree with. Sovereignty. Because it's sovereign that we can take legal acts, judging a certain earlier error. I'm speaking abstractly... And it doesn't affect our dignity, on the contrary. It is said that mistakes are made not by those who correct mistakes, but by those who are wrong... He makes a mistake who's wrong. Admitting a mistake is not a shame. We hear here on the one hand the wording of the justification, which he quoted, among others. Marshal Borowski, that this is an act of no legal significance and actually the publication of these judgments would not have any legal significance. If that's the case, what's the bill for? That's why there's a fear that the publication... that there must be this law, which at the same time calls judgment decisions, that is to say, touches the finality, destroys constitutional order, which clearly, unambiguously stands in the position of the finality of judgments, the direct application of constitutional norms... Then I ask: why? That's because the publication has legal implications. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is very important and legally binding. After all, this concerns the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. And not if there's one judge. More or less. Let us remember that today is the seventh approach to de facto annihilation or incapacity of the Court. And that 13 was also one of the motives. Because it was known that three judges, according to the Court's ruling, were wrongly chosen. That's what 13 was for. Well, the Court can't work. And the Court said, As far as the squad's concerned. And I repeat once again: in this legal order, constitutional order, if someone breaks the constitution, where in a clear way... that is, if someone breaks the highest law, then how do you define it? Well, it's illegal. It cannot invoke the rule of law, because there are no different interpretation schools in this area with regard to the provisions of the Article. 190. He is so clear and so clear that there is no doubt. And there is no power, there is no institution in the constitutional, or legal order of the Republic of Poland, so that any other authority can touch the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. And at the same time, the obligation to publish that judgment. The question is clear. Is the Polish Monitor, the promotional journal of the Republic of Poland from being littered with some acts that have no legal meaning? If this isn't an occasional resolution, because they are, but they also have meaning... Is that what it's published for? The publication, as everyone knows, and that's why you're afraid... I'm talking about most, not all of them, of course, because in your environment, broadly understood, there's reflection. And I think she should finally come. 'Cause you really don't have to convince anybody here, not those from abroad or anybody else, that the constitution rule... Please see how detailed the recommendations of the Venice Commission were, not only about knowledge, such directly, of the constitutional provisions, but also of earlier rulings of the Court, our legal system. After all, these are very detailed points and recommendations, which, as I said, prove a perfect understanding. And it really doesn't take any of us here to explain abroad what's going on. After all, we are in the European Union. We are part of this system, the legal system, based on values, on the rule of law. Well, there's no rule of law when you break the constitution and set a precedent. That's what we were talking about here. And I would like to stress this once again: we are setting a precedent for a legislative authority which has the right to challenge a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal called a judgment from which, I recall once again, 2 votes of separatum were submitted. Only a separate sentence shall be declared from the judgment. And this bill is to sanction public anti-constitutional lawlessness. We cannot participate in this performance, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why... Well, Senator Radziwill is no longer here, but we are discussing... Oh, there it is. We've been discussing this for so long, we're discussing the state foundation. [[Yes, sir.]] We're discussing whether this country is supposed to be law-abiding... [[Voice from the room: Or illegal.]] ...or not. Is our constitution the highest law to be applied directly? We are in our own legal system, I stress, our own, imposed by our society, not by abroad. This is our constitution that the president, the judges and the parliamentarians have vowed to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u29	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, you could say that there is nothing to discuss in Poland. In other countries, there'd be a big revolution, there'd be resignations, autodisms, and not just ministers, but all those experts... Fortunately, there were few of them, and it can be said that as far as knowledge is concerned, there was no one in favour of a solution concerning the closure of the judicial authority by the Prime Minister, actually the former Prime Minister. I don't know if a lot of people remember his name anymore... We know that the Court remains, and we also know that under the action of this broad public opinion... Let us recall from this stand who constituted this public opinion: the U.S. Department of State, the Venice Commission, the assembly of judges of different nations, experts. You didn't bend. The state also did not bow down when people here, 100 meters away, asked you where the constitution was. So, in fact, this is not a dispute, Professor and Doctor, about statutory errors or an attempt to repair them. This is a question of the collective character of your coalition. Do you guys have any character at all? Do you guys have any values? In particular, the values for which we have gathered here have been given a mandate. The perverse question is, have you consulted this law with the sovereign? After all, you used to refer to the sovereign's will, and now you're turning it around. Then maybe the Sovereign needs to be replaced. Or maybe the sovereign... Are you delegalizing this sovereign... And we're in the minority, as always. The people of August had the courage to say no, to say that the law does not have its price, that the law cannot be traded. The Constitution cannot be valued or overestimated, it must simply be recognised. Senator Radziwiłł used the real word, saying that the government worked hard... In those few words or sentences, you made a number of mistakes. The government is not working, Minister, Dear Coalition, Mr Kaczyński and especially Mrs Szydło, the government is serving, and if I am wrong, show the engagement, show whether you are included there, that you are engaged, that you are employed. The workers work hard, and you serve. And there's no price to be paid for, Minister. You don't get paid for your work, you get paid for your service, as do Members and Senators. [[Applause]] And if you accept the false philosophy that there are any prizes... Well, where there's prizes, there's punishment. [[Mr Senator, the issue of prizes is not the subject of this debate. Get to the point.]] If there's prizes, there's punishment. So who will be punished, who will return these hundreds of thousands of demonstrators who, on behalf of the Sovereign's part, have been begging on their knees... Gentlemen, ladies, what are you pursuing? Who will compensate them for travel expenses, demonstration costs, the cost of this frustration? That's what you have to think about when you give a bill like this. You have to apologize to them, just like that. This is more than Christianity, although first of all Christianity teaches it. I do not demand punishment, but I demand understanding, as well as apologizing for being called streetwalkers because we walked the streets for being accused of cheating with foreign citizens. Now it turns out that you're the ones who cheat by writing such obscure laws here. I ask you to return the honor, because like you, I believe that there is such a thing as honor, and I have the right to demand that it be recognized that I am, in part, an honorable person. I ask you to return to us, these thousands of people and parliamentarians, honor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u31	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As usual, I allow myself to speak at the end of the discussion. I have such manners, because I think it is useful that it is worth listening to various arguments, according to the ancient pair of audiences et altera pars, that is, to listen to and to the other side, before you come to an opinion on a specific subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the point of the matter, because there are too many big words here, sometimes very small words, for which I think some parliamentarians will be a little embarrassed after a while. I would like to remind you that the subject of this debate is a proposal to publish decisions which have been taken in the assessment of the government and the group to which I belong, in violation of the Constitutional Court Act. Without entering into the assessment of who is right in this dispute and who is not, I would like to remind you that this concerns the article. 19 provisions implementing the Law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal. This article has so far contained regulations on the same matter, except that there will be no publication of judgments concerning normative acts which have expired. The amendment is that the publication will, although those normative acts have expired. I'd like to draw your attention to one more little thing. As a lawyer, I may be too meticulous, but the difference in the wording is that there was a previous mention of judgments and decisions, and at the moment there is talk. It's about the decisions. Well, of course, we have excellent logic here, like Professor Hare. At first glance, it can be seen that the formula of judgment and judgment does not sin by logic, because the decisions also include judgments. Let me remind you that the timing of the decision is not actually the term used by the legislator. This is a term more from the legal language than from the legal language, which is not the one that we use in the law. Generally speaking, in constitutional law, and also in all procedures, decisions are divided into judgments, orders and orders. And that's just the full scope, which consists of the concept of a decision. Therefore, the current formula is the most capacious one, and from a logical point of view it is undoubtedly more correct than the one that had previously occurred, although it is indeed known that only judgments have taken place in these matters. I don't recall any other decisions being made, for example. Orders or orders. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to us to evaluate this law in the light of the principles of correct legislation. To be honest, in my view, we are dealing with a situation called superfluum, which is a law that is unnecessary, because the same is due to the Constitution, as far as the article is concerned. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2, which provides that decisions of the Court are to be published. Therefore, I see no reason for us to include an additional regulation in a separate law, which is to repeat what is the result of the Constitution, plus to include provisions which constitute a kind of commentary on these judgments, a commentary on whether they have been made in accordance with the provisions of the Act or not. I think that this kind of comment is unnecessary, because possibly... If there was any comment at all, then, as we know from the theory of lawmaking, there is a kind of commentary. So what's called the preambles? They are acceptable where there is some very important, very important for the life of a nation... For specific regulations In the case of super-important matter, Recitals are introduced. They shall, in particular, be introduced into files relating to international law. These recitals are very often raised, solemn. And here it is enough to accomplish what comes from the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No Therefore, I think that the whole dispute, this And the opposition, as usual, is focused on denying everything. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you. If you have other proposals, submit them because the principle is that the same goals can be achieved by different ways. The old steam of Roman law is called duo faciunt idem, non est idem, i.e. If two do the same thing, it's never the same. The same solution can be reached, for example by deciding that Article is repealed. 19 Act introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. And we are returning to this result, which we want to achieve in this law, and whose debate took us, in my opinion, completely unnecessary, until two days. Let us all really respect our time and our work. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good if you work, but in a way that brings some concrete results. I believe that it is inappropriate to discuss for the sake of the discussion itself and to argue, to point out to the opponents their alleged evil actions. And I call on us to respect ourselves a little bit more. Thank you. [[Exactly.]] [[Exactly.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u33	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that we are now considering this bill has some reasons. The fact that we're dealing with this project here is the result, actually the ultimate result, and that ends a process. What are the primary causes? They're already in the Constitution itself. It is indeed so that art. 189 constitutions saying that the Constitutional Tribunal decides... I'm sorry, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this The Constitutional Tribunal's rulings are generally valid and final. But the question is whether the Constitutional Tribunal could be wrong. To be clear, this is not a substantive assessment of the Court's judgment. That's what lawyers do. There are voices, there are comments. This is not about undermining the substantive content of the Court's judgment. It goes on for example. This may happen in which the Court is working unlawfully, e.g. sits and pronounces a sentence in a composition which is contrary to the law. Let us bear in mind that the Court, as an authority, is subject to Article. 7th Basic Law, Constitution. The public authorities shall act on the basis and within the limits of the law. This means that the Court, acting on the basis and within the limits of the law, must comply with the composition of the Court in the case in question as determined by the ordinary legislator, not the legislator. Question. What if it doesn't apply? What if he's doing it without knowing or by mistake or even on purpose? What then? The Constitution does not give us an answer to that question. Please note that the Constitution does not provide for the possibility of confusion or ill will in the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the fact is, I quote here an article. The system of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of the legislative authority, executive authority and judicial authority. This means that a very important element of the judicial authority, who knows, or not the most important? The Constitutional Tribunal must be balanced. It can't be that he's gonna give judgment just like that, outside the law. Someone here rightly asked who was to determine whether the Court was working legally, e.g. in the composition required by law or not. According to the constitution, there is no such body. It's a question to the organist, to the creators of the constitution. Perhaps it was about art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 was to be the last line of resistance of the constitutional majority, which was then adopted by the Constitution. Maybe it's just that at the moment that everything's been done. In quotation marks It will collapse, according to those wishes, according to the will of that political composition, the Constitutional Tribunal will protect us, because it will not depend on anyone. Yeah, but that's against logic. I repeat, this is contrary to logic. And this is a fundamental issue. It is worse if the Court itself, or at least part of its judges, starts to participate in a political game, because then it is possible to question not only the formal legitimacy of taking a given decision, but also its mererytics, its meaning. The question is, how do you define it? Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the root cause, the second one in turn. Why are we here, why are we talking about this bill? I would like to remind you, particularly those sitting on this side of the room, the senators of the Civic Platform, how it all started. It's 2015, May 10th, the first tour of the presidential election. I remind you that President Komorowski was the one who wasn't supposed to lose. He didn't have a candidate, he didn't have the opportunity to lose. [[Get to the point.]] [[Get to the point.]] [[Get to the point, Senator.]] Listen to me. I'm gonna say this thing in a minute. What happened next? On May 11th, the next day the results of the first election tour are announced. President Komorowski loses by 1% In the first round with candidate Andrzej Duda. And there's a panic on board. Projects relating to the Article shall be worked out by the Sejm Committee. 57th Court Act. Something's got to be done about it. And then what? A day later, on 12 May, the Sejm Committee shall meet, which shall examine the Court Act. A famous article shall be inserted into the adaptation and transitional provisions on tape. 135a, which allows the old Sejm to elect members of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's an article. It's an article. It's an article. It even allows for the selection of judges to replace the members whose term of office passes after the end of the parliamentary term. Is that consistent with the constitution and logic? No, of course not. There are many months and very loud discussions about such matters in the United States, and it was supposed to go quietly with us. At the meeting of the Parliament committee, he was the only one who opposed Mr Sharama from Law and Justice. He was opposed to such a misdemeanor and violation of the Constitution. This is it for the things. [[The term of office lasted until November.]] Has all this now become one decision-making process or not yet? Let's continue. What happens next? Of course, this goes to the plenary room of the Sejm. The project passes and becomes a law. Art. 135a shall become Article after the numbering has been changed. 137. The bill comes to the Senate. And then what? Where are those senators who are so roaring today that this is a violation of the Constitution? Where are these specialists? I will mention to you who then voted in favour of such a provision in the Act, who broke the Constitution alive. They were mostly people of the state. Here you go: Ryszard Bonisławski, Mieczysław Augustyn, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Robert Dowhan, Maciej Grubski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Jan Filip Libicki, Andrzej Misiołek, Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Leszek Piechota, Marian Poślednik, Marek Rocki, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Grażyna Sztark, Piotr Wach and I'm so sorry. Piotr Zientarski. [[Why are you sorry? I admit it.]] It was ironic, sir. What's next? The bill becomes a fact. You choose... that is, the Sejm chooses 5 excesses, so to speak, members of the Constitutional Tribunal. Not 3, not 2, but 5 excess members. [[That's not true.]] [[Right.]] You thought: we will continue to rule in the Court, we will have a majority, and that means that the status quo will continue, this status quo, which may have been planned by the constitution's creators. Well, what did it turn out to be? That even your Constitutional Court in a lame judgment of 3 December found that at least 2 members of these... [[Not at least two.]] [[Two.]] [[Two, two.]] We'll get to that in a minute. Don't interrupt me. ... That 2 members of the Constitutional Tribunal were elected in violation of the Constitution. [[Mostly we were right.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will read to you exactly what the operative part of this judgment is. .Art. The 137th Law set up in paragraph 1 in so far as it concerns judges of the Court whose term of office expires on 6 November 2015 is in accordance with Article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Constitution. This is your defense. In so far as it concerns the judges of the Court whose term of office expires accordingly, On 2 and 8 December 2015, it is incompatible with Article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Constitution. The judgment is clear, but it is also justified. Well, we find here a valid justification... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Let me finish my thought, Mrs. Marshal. [[Please.]] We find here a valid justification why 2 of the 5 elected members of the Constitutional Tribunal were chosen in breach of the Constitution. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer any justification for why these three, as it appears from the operative part, chosen in accordance with the Constitution, are elected in accordance with the Constitution. Just like that, from the air... [[It is. What if...]] [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet.]] The question is: and what would happen if this sentence were issued not on 3 December, when it was known when the term of office would end and it was issued earlier, e.g. September, July or August? [[Mr. Senator, time.]] How would the Constitutional Tribunal then know when the term of office ends and if the three senators... excuse me, were the three candidates elected by the Sejm by your law elected in accordance with the Constitution? How would he know that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u35	Mr. Senator, time... Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go. Five minutes, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a short bill, but its consequences are extremely important and far-reaching. I'll talk about it in a minute. The opposition here in the Senate also warned the Senators of the Platform about the adoption of this law. We warned you, we told you this was an unconstitutional bill. You didn't listen to us. But you listen to the European Union. Until recently you denied, you said that we are taking matters abroad, that what the European Union, what the European Commission has to do with Poland. Turns out he's got something. The same was true of the law on amending the IPN law, to which we will probably return and which caused conflicts, a serious conflict with Israel and the United States. On these judicial laws you negotiate with the European Union, not with the opposition, you do not listen to the opposition, and on this law on IPN you will negotiate and negotiate with Israel. What will you negotiate? Judgment of the Constitutional Court? Because the bill is in the Constitutional Court. It's a disgrace, isn't it? You want to make a bill about things that aren't there, something that doesn't exist and that doesn't exist. Yeah, it's a paradox, but paradoxes are good in literature, not law, not law. In short, through this law, you want to show that you are responding to the European Commission's comments. It's okay. But do you think that the Commission will accept the appearance that you are introducing here as important and important? It's an appearance, the young people call it. It's bullshit or it's bullshit. An important and most important issue would be the publication of these three judgments and the swearing in of three judges elected under the law. This case will not end because the term of office of the judges will continue for seven years and we will be returning to this issue for seven years. How could you get out of this? I propose to remove the word "decision," the concept of "decision" in this law and restore the concept of "judgment." And it's gonna be clear, then it's gonna be clear. This is a short bill, but also extremely important, because it violates the balance between judicial authority and executive authority. Who will decide what is the decision and what is the judgment? Whoever's in charge of the publication. The publication is managed by the Prime Minister, so it is the Prime Minister who will determine what is the decision, which is not important by law, and what is the judgment. And that's precedent. For many years ahead. We need to be aware that this solution will be invoked by others. And that puts executive authority over the Constitutional Tribunal. That is why I believe that if my amendment fails, I will vote And I call for such a vote against this law. Because she's not deciding anything, she's still confusing the situation. The compact, pushing it towards a very bad for the judicial system and the balance system of the authorities in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm actually finishing my thoughts on the previous statement. To sum up, we have this legal situation that at the beginning of the two judges of the Court were left. In quotation marks Accepted by the Constitutional Tribunal at that time by judgment of 3 December and not by 3 Judges. And I would like to point out that these three... [[The other way around.]] [[The other way around.]] On the contrary, yes, of course, three judges were accepted. But the sentence in its operative part was not proven and justified in the justification of that judgment. The question is, what's next? Well, the truth is, you guys started a storm. This storm lasted, with various severitys, with different effects, for almost 2.5 years. And we now want to close this period and simply do not interfere with the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. Because it should be written about the Court when in a given judgment it standardizes some facts whether it changes the law, e.g. removing from the bill any provision Only then. So not about the Court itself, but rather about its activities. And that's what we want to achieve. And what do we hear from the state? First detailed remark I refer to the law here, because we use the wording of the decision instead of the judgment. Well, we choose from the basic law what's in it, and we can't call it a judgment of something that's not a judgment because it was given in violation of the procedure. As I said, the Court is not outside the law, it must work in accordance with the article. 7 constitutions, i.e. within the framework of the law, i.e. in a warehouse which is imposed by law, which... as it is by law, a law. What does that mean? That means we have to choose a different term here. And there is such a term in the basic law, in the Constitution, namely in Article. 189, where it is said that the Constitutional Tribunal settles disputes of competence. Thus, here the legislator uses the concept of a more general decision, but one which, in its general nature, also includes a term of judgment, but here we refer to decisions which are not judgments. And here's the question: how is it actually, does this law matter, or does it not matter from a legal point of view? 'Cause I hear voices like that one time and that one time. Well, let's think about it. If it has a legal meaning, i.e. it gives rise to any something that doesn't matter what the legal effect is, it is the question: will it be the effects desired by the party that questions the law or not? From what I understand, they are desirable because they are related to your wishes previously expressed. And if this bill... And that's the second possibility, because it's dichotomy: either there are consequences, or there are no consequences. So if there is no legal effect, what is it really about? You care so much... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you care so much about purity and such almost synthetic precision of the law? So, what were you guys doing-- I mentioned your names in my previous speech. So what were you guys doing back then when you passed the law against the constitution? Few of this, the chairman and vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal participated in the committee's work at the time, sitting, listening and not protesting. I'm not talking about all the other institutions that didn't speak when it was broken, even if it was a constitution. Yeah, and then it started swirling. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to be honest. This bill doesn't have legal effect? So why are you discussing her for so long? Does this bill have legal significance? That's the simplest question. It's coming your way. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Exactly. Then why are you protesting this? I don't know. [[Because we want it to be legal...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u39	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u40	Mr. Marshal, many words have been said about this, but I will say a few more words provoked by Senator Czerwinski. Another issue is the violation of the Constitution, which is directly... and another issue is voting for a law that is touched by the Constitutional Tribunal. It's not a shame, because that's what the Constitutional Tribunal is for. I can quote you many, dozens of warehouses and members of the PiS, and Platforms where the Court has questioned... For this the Court is and this is no disgrace to anyone. I'm not talking about the fact that the Court mostly divided, mostly... But we have, in accordance with the constitution... And here is the essence of the dispute: whether the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is sacred and indisputable That's the way it is. Is it or isn't it? That's the thing. And it was you who began to question the judgments of the Court, not us. We have submitted to the Constitutional Court's judgments. That's what it's all about and don't wash your eyes off people. I repeat: this is the point whether we recognise the Court's rulings or not. And please... There's plenty of judgments and doctrinal positions. I could talk here for hours about the three divisions of power. There are books entirely devoted to the subject of three divisions of power... The short part is, there's no organ that checks... The Court itself is entitled to this And he also referred in his ruling to the issue of composition And he's the one who's verifying it, and he's also verifying the formal issues, not just the substantive ones. So both. There is no authority which has the right to challenge the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. There isn't. This is clear from the clear doctrine of the threefold division of power. Power has influence, it's more legislative. I was talking here about very important issues, such as the budget, but not only. And here's the essence of things. And we're gonna be... We're discussing Once again, I would like to stress this. It is very important and, as Marshal Borusewicz said here, the current case. Professor Bobko, with all due respect to your argument and in-depth analysis, I will remind you that this is not an expired case, this is not an obsolete matter. The case is valid because the judges elected in accordance with the Constitution, which is confirmed by the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which you are afraid to publish, should rule and wait, and their term of office continues, and will continue for years. And that's the current situation. This is also seen by the European Commission, which is reflected in the recommendations that refer to the restoration of these judges on several occasions. And that's the thing. And you want to make a hoops at the same time saying that something is ineffective. Then why are you doing this? If it's legally ineffective, then why? That's the question. It's for you. It's not like we're making this bill, we think... we're just applying the constitution. Because it doesn't matter if the government thinks anything or if most of us... It doesn't matter what most of us think, it really doesn't matter. It has the meaning of the Constitution and the end, period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u41	Thank you, Senator. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was rapporteur for this law, so I thought it would be good to refer to some of the issues that were raised here, although during this debate, during this part on reporting a lot of these issues have already been raised. However, I would like to point out now, as if in a different role, that we should very much appreciate what we find in the justification of this law, in the justification presented by the applicants, the drafters of this law. As far as this legislative path is concerned, we might as well imagine such a situation that we are making legislative changes, legislative changes and basically focusing on strict on this matter. But please note, the applicants emphasize the broader dimension of this law than merely the legislative dimension, namely the social assessments of the legal system, the social assessments of the system of control of Polish law, the justice system, and the conclusion of the dispute around the Constitution... And I think in our actions, in our legislative work, this context, just a broader context than just a strict one. legislative, which is, of course, the core of what we are doing, but should be taken into account. And here the applicants are very open about it. And I think that this law should be considered precisely in the context of these statements, it should be taken very seriously into account. I'd like to point out... Because the state has always emphasized this difference between the decisions... that basically why we do not apply the name of the judgment, the institution of judgment, the institution of case law, we just want to replace it with the institution of the decision, as the applicants propose... Well, ladies and gentlemen, I also tried to stress this when I answered the questions, perhaps for the first time something like that happened that the Constitutional Tribunal assessed the rules on which it operates. And at this point, of course, there was a big question in the legislative sphere, in the legal sphere, whether the Constitutional Tribunal could simply state And that's how it was presented. That here we apply the constitution directly, which means we ignore the ordinary law, because this ordinary law questions some of our own... questions the full composition, the number of judges, etc., etc. And what was said, presented by my previous speakers, seems unacceptable, because, as Senator Czerwiński said, there is art. The 7th Constitution, which states that public authorities rely on law and operate within the limits of law. And at that point, the Constitutional Tribunal in a situation where it entered into force so-called. The resolution law of 22 December 2015 should comply with this resolution law and should issue judgments in accordance with that law. And this law just assumed that the full composition of the Constitutional Tribunal was a minimum of 13 judges. And now tell me, what if there were 12 judges, and what if there were 12 judges? 11 if there were 10 or 8 or 7? Then we should also say that this is the Constitutional Tribunal? Is it possible to formally refer to the deliberations of the Constitutional Tribunal as sittings in a smaller formation than those referred to in the Act of 22 December 2015? Well, I take it that at the moment it is impossible to talk about the deliberations of the Constitutional Tribunal, because this Court has failed to comply with the formal requirements. What was written in the ordinary law was not realized. Of course, we can debate here for a very long time, we can think about such decisions, but this article... The applicants propose that what the Constitutional Tribunal calls a judgment should be called a decision because the formal legal requirements are not met here. Well, the formal legal requirements have not been met and, of course, this should be the way in which it is presented. Mr. Marshal said it would be easiest if three judges were to be co-opted, referring to the article... to the lex specialis, to the article. 137th Act of June 25, 2015 that it would be easiest to simply co-opt... sorry, take a vow from 3 more judges. But if we took a vow from three more judges, that would be 18 judges, of course, and the constitution is talking about 15 judges. Wouldn't it be possible to publish judgments? Of course, judgments can be published when the composition is in accordance with the ordinary law. As for the matter of what is called judgments and what is called a decision in the law, it simply concerns legal standards that are no longer in the system of law. As I said, the Act of 22 July abolished the act of 25 June with the novel of 22 December. On the other hand, the Act we are currently debating - the Act on the introduction of transitional provisions - is abolishing the Act of 22 July. That's why, as I said at the beginning, I think for a good atmosphere... Because every institution, and especially such an important institution as the Constitutional Tribunal, and generally the entire justice system, the system of Polish law, all this requires a good atmosphere. The adoption of this bill will certainly make this atmosphere better. And what I called a good signal earlier, what Senator Czarnobaj spoke so much about here, I, of course, confirm. Of course, this will be a good signal sent to all stakeholders who deal with the law, who observe the law, for which it is very important. I think this will have the effect that this atmosphere will improve and that it will be easier for us to have a debate around the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u43	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, this law does not seem to have any formal meaning, and on the other hand it is important in the sense that it is a continuation of action, the aim of which is to change the regime of the Republic of Poland without amending the Constitution. Yesterday in my district, in Trzcianka, the President of Law and Justice said clearly: we will not depart from this path. I wish the Poles knew how expensive this is. This is the way where the sovereignty of the judiciary is restored again. Because if we allow the executive authority to judge the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and, on the basis of these assessments, consider the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal to be constitutional or not, then we agree that the executive authority may judge anything, may judge anyone. What was the fight of Solidarity, for which Poland? Well, the kind of Poland in which this former authority, acting without any restrictions, even though it had already had the Court and the Ombudsman, will be replaced by a power which is subject to restrictions. And you're removing these restrictions. Mr President said here a moment ago that he was expressing his opinion... You have the right to such opinions, each of us has the right to its opinions, but these opinions do not give rise to disregarding the Constitution. It wasn't the Court's fault that it wasn't full, just because the president didn't perform his constitutional duties. And then, too, there was a violation of the constitution. And that's why breaking the constitution cannot be justified by breaking the constitution. And you can't get the High House to agree again, now, on this bill, to break the constitution. If we do that, we'll get back to what happened. The Constitution is, but the really ruling authority can take from it what suits them, interpret everything as it suits them. So we are going into a whole new reality. What is now being proposed, Mr. Marshal, the High Izbo, is a stretch of law. This is a rehearsal. pulling the Poles so they can buy what they've abandoned before, it's a test. to draw the European Commission's consent to the state of affairs which we have in Poland. And I think that sooner or later, when it affects ordinary citizens, these constitutional conners, law hustlers, people in Poland, just like they used to, they're going to say no. The beauty of it is, whether you like it or not. As in several hundred cases mentioned here by Senator Zientarski, the executive authority is subject to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, regardless of its opinion. This is democracy. If power doesn't do it, democracy is gone, in any case not fully.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u45	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is my first speech in this debate. Actually, I'd just like to point out a few points about what I've heard. And today, and Friday. One of the topics that were raised and discussed was that the opposition party, which is us, the Civic Platform, long talks about a law that does not seem to matter. We are saying a long time because this law will be adopted in this House without amendments, as will many other laws, which were of key importance and actually far-reaching repercussions, both the repercussions of the functioning of our country and the foreign repercussions... Therefore, it is our duty to make it very clear and to repeatedly highlight the flaws or even the wrong intentions contained in the law that will in future be detrimental to us. It's just our duty. There is no need to give many examples here. Actually, from the so-called prosecutorial laws that were passed, well, almost two years ago, about, and whose negative effects are already visible, through judicial resolutions, the case that goes on And the complete ignoring of the Venice Commission, as I and many others here have been talking about... All of this has led us to this state that is right now and which we're supposed to correct, and it's not going to end. And let me repeat: it is our duty to point it very clearly and show it, because someone will one day be responsible for these consequences. And we wouldn't want to. I wouldn't want that either. "To be accused against the opposition that the opposition ignored and did not emphasize, perhaps sometimes with exaggeration, all the shortcomings of the law which we establish here properly on order, on a political order. And here's the second point I want to point out: the importance of the bill. It does not matter because it deals with historical matters, without affecting the current functioning of the Court, but it is really of great political importance and has an impact on both the internal and external markets. That's also why we're talking about it. This will, of course, work in some part of the internal market, because the Law and Justice, the government will argue that it has properly stepped down and a compromise has been made on judicial laws, and in this case the Court Act. And that's not really the case. Whether this will work on the external market depends on political will. Because it's actually a political matter. I don't think it's gonna work. It will not work, because the European Commission now has far-reaching knowledge of Poland, but it has had it from the beginning, precisely as a result of the work of the Venice Commission, which is, by the way, a body of the Council of Europe, but actually is, I would say, a world, and within the European Union. It's very special. So that this is quite clear. This is politically important, it is the importance of making the impression that we have given up, that we are ready to compromise, as was mentioned and in the justification, and in the statements of the rapporteur, Senator Gogach. He was talking about it, maybe more observantly, but he said it. The third point I would like to raise is that in the debate it was said: you were doing even worse, you started it, you passed at the end of your term of office a bill in which 5 judges were actually presented, including 2 in an illegal manner. Well, but, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, after the Constitutional Court's judgment, we actually admitted that it was, and second of all, that's not the point. The thing is, in my opinion, mostly that you can't plead that if someone did wrong, we're gonna do the wrong thing or we're gonna do the wrong thing. This is unacceptable. It's not an argument, it's a saying: you guys did it, it's also allowed, or we're gonna do even worse. It's completely unacceptable, and I'm protesting it here. That's not an argument. This indicates that the party that represents the law does not have any real arguments, but can only say: you do, we do. There you go. But what is the law, and what is the rule of law? Finally, I will actually confirm, as if I would stress what many people have said, but I think it's best that Senator Zientarski does not comply with the legal requirements of those decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal which have not been published. No one, actually, nor we, nor even the executive authority, has the right to give such an opinion and such a judgment. That disqualifies the whole part of the legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u47	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that Senator Bogdan Borusewicz has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[There's no government representative.]] [[There isn't.]] There's no government representative. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The text of the Act is contained in print No 783, and the report of the Commission In print No 783 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting, the Commission decided to adopt a law without amendments. There was also a motion to reject a law which was not taken into account. The Act contains a number of amendments to the Supreme Court Act. Maybe I'll talk about it a little bit. First of all, in connection with the introduction of the principle of public voting in the Senate on all resolutions, a change has been made to the regulation on the selection of jury, which, as you know, should be at the moment In general, it is a new institution in the Supreme Court to the Senate. This amendment was therefore also made to this Law on the Supreme Court. In addition, the regulation was amended which provided that judges of the Supreme Court could not pass from other chambers to the Disciplinary Chamber. Finally, there was no regulation that provided that it would be for the first President of the Supreme Court to appoint jurors to rule on disciplinary matters, i.e. in this Disciplinary Chamber. Certain regulations have also been introduced concerning the President's determination of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court. Namely, the regulation of the fact that within a year of entry into force The opinion of the College of the Supreme Court issued to the President on the question of precisely establishing these rules of procedure is not required. It is also important to change the role of the President of the Disciplinary Chamber as regards the budget of this House. Namely, the principle was introduced that it has a strong voice, decision-making on possible budgetary transfers within the chambers of the Supreme Court, leaving these issues to it. So he's a decision-making person here. It concerns this Article. 4, which states that if, before the date of entry into force of this law, on which we are now deliberating, the first President of the Supreme Court has carried out without the agreement of the President of the Supreme Court in charge of the work of the Disciplinary Chamber, a transfer of expenditure resulting in a reduction in expenditure related to the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber, the President of the Supreme Court may carry out, in the budget of the Supreme Court, a transfer of expenditure to the extent necessary to determine the expenditure relating to the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber at the level prior to the transfer of expenditure by the first President of the Supreme Court. The discussion, of course, concerned a number of issues, especially the one that I am talking about now, about having the budget of the Disciplinary Chamber. There were also raised issues by the Legislative Office regarding the possible compatibility of such regulation with the Accounting Act, which always entrusts these issues to the heads of the institution. Of course, this discussion has found both the supporters of the regulation that is introduced here and the opponents, but, as I say, the adoption of the law was finally voted without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u49	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Who's first? Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u50	Mr Senator, I would like to hear from you what is the reason for the proposed amendments, because the applicants, at a time when regulations were adopted, which are to be amended, which is quite not so long ago, with great enthusiasm with the representatives of the Ministry, have convinced us that these regulations are superb, they are excellent, and that there are no doubts, especially that we, as the opposition that raised doubts, are not right. So what happened? That's my first question. And the other. You mentioned that there were controversy over the use of resources. Because if the Disciplinary Board is to have financial autonomy vis-à-vis the entire Supreme Court, who will be responsible in the light of the Public Finance Act for violating the discipline of public finances? Is the President of the Supreme Court, who, in the light of the law, can only be responsible for this, or the President of the Disciplinary Chamber, who has complete responsibility and is not liable under the Public Finance Act? Did the committee refer to this and propose precise regulation in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u51	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u52	Mr. Senator, on the first point, it wasn't a discussion about what the reasons were. I would remind you that this is a parliamentary project, not a government project. The answer to the questions addressed to the representative of the Ministry of Justice was that it was a parliamentary project. I can only guess that some changes, even if the rules for the election of the jury were introduced in the open vote, are the result of what we have not so long passed on to the voting procedure, i.e. the introduction of the open voting procedure also in personal matters, and these are undoubtedly matters related to the selection of the jury. On the second point, that is to say, responsibility under the Public Finance Act, I will say that yes, there was a discussion about this, because it was raised that the head of this institution is always responsible for financial discipline and not someone else is responsible. It seems to me that this rule, still resulting from the article. The 53th Public Finance Act will continue to apply. I have the impression that there will have to be some modus vivendi between the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Disciplinary Chamber, whose role has indeed been strengthened here. Yeah, but I can't imagine the president of the Disciplinary Chamber doing anything completely casual around here like that. Because in the light of the law, in the light of the Public Finance Act, he will have no responsibility That he would put his colleague, who is the first President of the Supreme Court, under the responsibility of the Supreme Court. Well, here is also the question of a culture of work and political culture, which I believe should exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u53	Thank you. Senator Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna get on with this. The Supreme Court is divided into five chambers, we know that. This Disciplinary Chamber will now have a separate budget, the judges in the Disciplinary Chamber have a higher remuneration, and we already know that. And now this House is getting some kind of special financial autonomy. I would like you to answer, because at the meeting of this committee there was a representative of the applicants, which he answered the question whether this law is compatible with the Public Finance Act. I would like to remind you that the first President of the Supreme Court is the authorising officer of the entire budget, but he will not have third-degree powers in the area of the Disciplinary Chamber. Well, something like that is a puriazum, because it's an art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 states that the head of the public finance unit is responsible for the entire budget. Of course, it's completely arguing... It's such a mess, it's such a novelty in the bill... Therefore, of course we will submit, I will also submit, a request to delete these two points. And here's the question: what the applicant's representative said about this Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Public Finance Act? Is this law compatible with the Public Finance Act? Because we will remember that when you adopt this law, we will remind you of what we are saying today, what can happen if this law is adopted without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u55	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u56	Mr. Senator, as I recall, this is where the applicant's representative has not spoken.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u57	Mr. Senator, he hasn't spoken. [[But he wasn't convinced...]] [[There was a question mark at the end.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u58	In my opinion, he spoke. It was a question asked... He claimed it was consistent with the Public Finance Act. He wasn't entirely convinced, but he said he was.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u59	To be honest, I don't recall it. I remember the voice of the legislator's representative, which is more memorable to me. [[Maybe in a few moments there'll be an opportunity to ask the representatives of the applicants, and I'll ask them again with this question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u60	Okay, Mr. Senator. I'm afraid there's gonna be a problem... Yeah, but the question is, what did he say? It's really hard to answer that question. The Senator rapporteur can say in general. Senator Blackbay is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u61	Mr. Senator, I'm still talking about this financial issue. There were questions about the question of creating a deal that the senators had just asked about. The responsibility lies with the head of the organizational unit and the financial independence of another person is introduced within that unit. And you as a lawyer... That's why I want to ask you. As a lawyer, you say, well, we have to get to some modus vivendi, you know, they're gonna get along, because a friend of mine isn't gonna do... So I would like to ask you: is this a model of creating a uniform, clear law in Poland concerning responsibilities and responsibilities? I'm asking you as a member of the committee as the person who will vote on this, and I'm asking you as a lawyer. And do you agree with the opinion that you had on this case a legal counsel from the Legal Office? That's the first question. And the other. Would you, Mr. Counselor, please tell me as an illegal, why the judges in the Disciplinary Chamber will have 40%. higher wages? I don't know, maybe they're moving twice as much as any other coal... I'm sorry about the trivialization, but... Maybe they're doing more than judges working in other chambers. Why do they have to have 40%? More? [[It should be the other way around...]] Did you guys measure... Were there any discussions about what is measured by the work of these judges in relation to the work of judges in other chambers? Why is it 40%? , not 50% ? And why not 20%? Less? Could you explain that to the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u62	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u63	I'll start with the last line. This, of course, was not on the table. This was discussed at a time when the Supreme Court Act was deliberated, which was a few good months ago. And then there was time to ask such questions. Secondly, Senator, I see he's a master at asking such questions personally to me. [[The perverse ones.]] But I remind you, I don't perform here... [[This is the first time, Mr. Senator, the first time for you...]] ...as an individual lawyer, I'm just presenting the position of the club . and therefore I presented them. On the one hand, on the regulation of the Public Finance Act and on the other, on the other hand on the regulation adopted here with regard to the special powers of the President of the Disciplinary Chamber. I introduced how things were going and what she looked like. Ladies and gentlemen, the daily issue for lawyers is that they are in contact with a law that sometimes contains gaps or is contradictory. And the question of a good lawyer is to make an interpretation that, while maintaining the purpose of statutory regulation and maintaining the principles of logic It will lead to a proper settlement. Of course, it is better for lawyers if such surprises and puzzles are asked as little as possible by the legislator to lawyers, but it is known that in the modern world, where there is a great deal of legislation, such problems are not only a disease of our parliament, but it is so all over the world. Well, lawyers don't have an easy life on this one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u64	Thank you very much. Hello, Deputy Minister, Judge Piebiak. We're glad the judge is here, especially since we didn't have anyone to ask questions at the previous point. [[Well, that's good.]] Thank you. There you go. Senator Blackbay. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If it was...]] Again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u65	If it was taken personally, it's kind of because of the high grade I'm giving you as a lawyer. But I'd like to ask you again about this case. The question of creating something in Polish almost something that is the head of the unit, but we also create a sub-chief that can change the budget. Do you know of such a structure in other legal acts? And from a legal point of view, is this a good construction? I've detailed that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u66	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u67	Mr. Senator, as I said before, it's a construction that will put you in front of the decision-makers. In other words, before the President of the Disciplinary Chamber, and before the first President of the Supreme Court, and before the authorities who supervise the functioning of the Public Finance Act, some task is to interpret those provisions which, on the one hand, concern the matter of the Public Finance Act and, on the other hand, concern the Supreme Court Act. And it'll be their thing to settle it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u68	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, most substantive questions have already been asked to the senator. I should actually repeal my question, but I would like to ask whether it is a law which is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Poland, or whether it is from a parliamentary submission. I understand the government is prepared. Because it hasn't been... [[First of all, I said it was a parliamentary bill.]] [[Messenger Matusiewicz, former senator.]] Oh, the MPs, yeah. Well, then I can't ask the applicant at all, and that's the problem. [[Nobody bothers you.]] [[You can, you can.]] Okay... [[Yes, you can.]] Okay, okay, everything's fine now, but it wasn't when it was needed. But that's not the point anymore, because I don't want to pick on you. Then I only have a question for you as a judge, because of course I am more interested in you, so to speak, I am picking on you than my colleague Czarnobaj, because you are from the vicinity of Krakow, and I am from Cracow. Tell me... [[You've talked about this before, Senator, and I explained to you that...]] But I didn't interrupt you. [[I don't think the Wieliczka is worse than Krakow.]] I didn't interrupt you. It's not elegant to interrupt someone during his speech. Well, you knocked me out of my panth. I'll think about it and try to repeat the question. Counselor, because we're being watched, and as you know, there's a live feed coming in, tell me how... Because you were just criticizing the previous bill, and I saw it, and you criticized her so much that you said she was unnecessary. You said that about the Constitutional Court Act, which I praise you for, because I criticized her, too. But tell me then: how is it that we ordinary citizens are supposed to respect the law, since for me the supreme lawyer is the Legal Office of the Sejm or the Senate, and we do not pay attention to all these amendments, we reject them, as you know, mostly, what you just said? And who am I supposed to trust? Am I supposed to trust you who represents the government side, or am I supposed to trust my Senate office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Me.]] I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u71	Mr. Senator, why don't I start with the last question: trust your mind and your senses, because we're here to make everyone decide for themselves. As far as the other issues are concerned, I have already explained this and I do not see the need to go back to the issue of the Law on the Publication of Judgments, as you wish to mention. Your assessment of what I've said... Thank you for being favorable, although I do not think they are necessary for my existence. [[Yes.]] And by the way... [[The kiss of death.]] Because of the level of generality that the senator accepted, I answered as much as the generality of these questions allowed. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u72	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Now, let's get a little information. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that, after considering the current item on the agenda, we will proceed with the examination of item 17: the Act amending the Act on social insurance for farmers and certain other laws; the Senate print No 791. And now we're back to square one. Senator Shark is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u73	Thank you very much. I'm gonna go back to this court for a second... and I'm really sorry, to this Disciplinary Chamber. Before that, Senator Czarnobaj spoke on his salary, so I will ask you about the following matter. You're a lawyer. Because in the Disciplinary Chamber, you are looking at proposals for not only judges, but also other legal groups, lawyers, lawyers, would you like to stand before such a Disciplinary Chamber, knowing what is the call for this Disciplinary Chamber? That's the first question. My second question... [[That's a misdemeanor.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] And here I will report, personal, unfortunately... [[The assumption is wrong...]] ...I'll also report... And that was during the deliberations of our committee considered. Doesn't this record of an important social interest or legal interest conflict... Because for me, the legal interest is the basis, and the social interest is very extensive, and I'm going to be... do you also think that the combination of these two, with an apology, is not necessary at all? Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u74	Mr. Senator... Senator, Senator, I'm sorry, but here you are... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But that's what it's called, Mr. Marshal...]] ...doesn't have to answer that question if he wants to stand before... [[Okay, well, let him answer, 'cause I think this is...]] That question should rather be addressed to Minister Piebiak... [[Counsel will answer.]] ...not to the senator. [[Exactly.]] [[Excuse me, Mr...]] But you're welcome. [[I'm relinquishing...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u75	Senator, there's that personal question again... I assure you again, as did your previous speaker, Senator Czarnobaj, that I am not speaking personally here, but I can speak personally. Well, it's known that no lawyer would want to face any disciplinary or corporate court, or even a Supreme Court court. I remind you that when it comes to corporate competitions such as lawyers, lawyers, other professional authorities, in these disciplinary matters the Supreme Court will only recognise cassation complaints, i.e. it is at the very top of this pyramid of institutions conducting disciplinary proceedings. As for this wording concerning, on the one hand, the interests of the justice system, on the other hand, the public interest, I believe that it is not an irregularity, because it really must be taken into account both of these interests, because... Could somebody please say In particular, those who believe that the justice system is somehow alienated or that it grows beyond society "Sometimes the interests of the justice system could be identified as a kind of corporate interest. Therefore, some counterbalance must be established for him in the form of a social interest. Therefore, I believe that these two categories can function properly here and it can be written as it is written.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u76	Thank you. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u77	Mr. Senator, two questions. First: did you talk at the committee meeting about the exclusion from the procedure of the Supreme Court rules of the Supreme Court? Was it said that ever in the Republic of Poland Did it happen in the Second Republic of Poland, or in socialist Poland, that the Supreme Court body was excluded from the Supreme Court rules? Is that what it was about, or do you know that it's ever happened? That's the first question. And the other. You have avoided the question of what was the purpose of this bill, but we know it from public statements. Please tell me whether this law is implementing any of the European Commission's demands. I would like to remind you that they concerned three things: that the reduced retirement age should not be applied to the current Supreme Court judges, in order to remove the President's freedom to extend this mandate to Supreme Court judges and to remove the emergency action procedure. Was any of these things done in this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u78	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u79	Mr. Senator, I answer the first question: there was no discussion about the subject you mentioned. And about the other thing... [[And do you know that this is ever going to happen?]] Honestly, I've never analyzed it. I didn't become a judge because it was impossible at the time of the commune with my views, even though I finished the judge's application with a very good exam. With my views, I'm sure I wouldn't be allowed to become an asessor. That's why I became a lawyer, which I do not regret, because I have the nature of a defender more than the one who thinks, and especially the one who accuses. [[And the second question?]] But speaking of the next question... [[Those three things the Commission wants...]] As far as these three things are concerned, I do not recall that this law regulates these issues. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u80	Thank you. Senator Rybicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'll give you a hint that in 1947, the Minister of Justice passed the Rules of Procedure to the Supreme Court. But I am asking about the issues of discussion at the committee meeting, about the constitutional aspects. In the course of the debate, were there any dilemmas related to the fact that the President, using the new wording of the Act, would have to obtain a counter-assignment of the Prime Minister for a period of up to 12 months as the first President? Well, the Prime Minister is a certain reflection of the political, party arrangement, so he's probably gonna be asking the president or the head of the party. Is it not, however, such a concern that the constitutional division and balance of power will be undermined, that the standards of the constitutional rule of law will be violated?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u82	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u83	That wasn't discussed. [[What do you mean it wasn't? I brought it up, Mr. Senator. I raised this at the committee meeting. Remember...]] [[Maybe the senator wasn't here yet.]] [[I was raising the subject. I raised the problem of countersignals, addictions, little of that, the introduction of an unconstitutional institution of the person acting as the first President of the Supreme Court. Remember that.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I don't remember that. I'll be honest with you... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...then I forgot. If you say you did, I see no reason not to believe you. Well, I'm not a man with 100 percent memory, so forgive me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u84	Senator Rybicki, one more time. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u85	Mr. Senator, if you don't recall, I'd like your opinion, after all, that you're a good, distinguished lawyer. On this, in my opinion, a manifest imbalance in the balance of power.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u86	Mr. Senator, I've already said that I'm presenting the committee's position here. And I'm not the kind of person who would answer your questions here like an expert. That's not my role. I don't think it's a place for my legal views to be presented at this point. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u88	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm listening to your statements and I'd like to get back to one of your statements, which I think is very crucial. When Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asked you substantive and quite appropriate questions, defending himself or refusing to answer the senator, you used such a phrase that you did not present your own opinion or any other opinion, but the club's opinion. Would you mind explaining what's going on, then? [[It's not a club, it's a committee. I'm sorry.]] [[Voice from the room: Speech...]] Yeah, but this slip is pretty dangerous, Mr. Senator. Because maybe someone else is affecting your decisions? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u89	Okay, okay... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u90	Did I say "club"? I thought I said "commission." Anyway, I was going to say that I'm presenting the committee's position, not the club's. [[Okay...]] If I misspoke, but you're the only senator who's talking about it, 'cause I think the other guys... [[Can't you just misspoke?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Then I'm sorry if there was a slip of the tongue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u91	That's a slip of the tongue. Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go. And then you're Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, Art. 131 provides: Judges holding positions in other chambers of the Supreme Court on the date of entry into force of this Act may be transferred to positions in the Disciplinary Chamber. It is to be expected that there will be a lot of people willing, because the salary is to be increased by 40%. So that I think they will be willing, not like in the case of electoral officials who are currently missing in Poland. And it goes on to say that until the date of the first seat of all the judges of the Supreme Court in the Disciplinary Chamber, the judge holding a post in another Supreme Court Chamber shall submit an application for a transfer to the Disciplinary Chamber to the National Council of Courts, after obtaining the consent of the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court in charge of the Disciplinary Chamber and the Chamber in which the judge submitting the application for a transfer... etc., etc. Well, there's the procedure. However, we know that at an early stage of this Law on the Supreme Court, pending the seat of 110 judges, the position of the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Disciplinary Chamber may remain vacant. Therefore, it seems that this is a dead, unenforceable recipe. [[And the question?]] Exactly. What is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u93	Okay, thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go. How about something to write, Senator? [[Oh, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u94	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is a bill that improves the bill five months ago. At that time, during this work, we and our Legislative Office proposed a series of amendments and they were all rejected because it was claimed that this was a very good law. Now 3 of these amendments are included in the text of the amendment. I'd also like to ask what the senator is going to say about the pace of work, because it's the pace that's left right now... Well, we talked a lot about this at the committee meeting. What do you think about this extraordinary mode without 24 hours to think about it? And it should be a week here. Do you think this is a good way of proceding or a bad way?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u95	Senator Piotr Zientarski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u96	Thank you very much, Marshal! Mr. Senator, I have a general remark. In the case of the previous law, I was also rapporteur, rapporteur for minorities, and I answered all the questions, among others. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. I did not hide from the formula that this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. It seems to me that the role of the rapporteur is to put forward arguments... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] ...related to the bill, arguments in favour of this bill. It is not always at the committee meeting that questions are discussed. It's a general remark. Senator, please respond to the question as to whether, in the martial law, the authority of that time led to such a situation that the disciplinary proceedings of the lawyers were limited and, as in this submission, subject to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u97	Thank you very much. I ask for an answer to the extent that this was discussed at the committee meeting. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u98	Yes, sir. I'm going back to Senator Flork's question. Well, Mr. Senator, I don't think you've noticed that at the moment there's no contradiction between the contents of the article. 131, which so far provided that until all judges of the Supreme Court are filled in the Disciplinary Chamber, judges from other chambers are not transferred to that Chamber, and this different regulation, which is now repealing that specific prohibition and provides that judges in other chambers may be transferred to the Disciplinary Chamber. [[But it's a dead recipe.]] And here, of course, is a whole list of requirements. They must obtain the approval of the President of the Chamber in which they adjudicate, the President of the Disciplinary Chamber... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and the first President of the Supreme Court, and more importantly, the National Judicial Council is also involved in this process, to which this request is submitted. So that at the moment the regulation allowing this transfer to the Disciplinary Chamber from another Chamber is a full, precise regulation. As for Senator Pociej, about the issue of legislative speed... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that, in general, the pace of the legislative process is not a factor that promotes the precision and excellence of the law. Well, that's the general rule, I guess, undisputed. But I would like to remind you that thanks to the fact that we are debating today, and the texts we received last week, it is not so crazy about this law. As for the question of Senator Zientarski regarding whether disciplinary proceedings were brought before the Supreme Court in the martial law... [[Was it as limited as it is proposed at the moment.]] Honestly, I don't remember. But there were scandalous situations when the Minister of Justice had the right to suspend lawyers in the pursuit of their profession, which, for example, affected. Two of my colleagues, sleep. Counselor... I'm sorry, I don't remember the name right now. And a later Minister of Justice, right now Senior Attorney, over 90 years old, Mr. Counselor Dyka. I know it was the outrageous behaviour of the Minister of Justice who suspended these colleagues. We, of course, as a counsellor, have made every effort to ensure that they have some minimum means of subsistence, because it is well known that for an honest lawyer who does his job, it is a huge ailment to deprive him of his right to pursue his profession for at least a few months. [[Rosmarovich.]] [[Rosmarovich.]] No, Counselor Rosmarovich wasn't suspended. At the same time, with Counselor Rosemaryovych we worked in one barrister's team and Counselor Rosemaryovych was not suspended. And it worked wonderfully, organizing us as defenders, in a state of war. Moreover, colleagues came to him and submitted various information about the process. And by the way, among other things. Thanks to him, you had the opportunity to listen to information about what was happening in Krakow from the free radio stations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u99	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u100	Thank you very much. The jury in the Supreme Court is a novelty. I would like to ask if the issue of jury in Supreme Courts was discussed during the committee meeting. Because, in general, there was a discussion about this in the country. To what extent did this take place at the committee meeting? And if there was no such discussion, I would ask the Senator rapporteur, despite some resistance, to say even a few sentences about his own views on the subject. [[Excuse me, if you'd care to clarify what...]] It's basically about the jury in the Supreme Court. Was this issue raised and discussed at the committee meeting? And if it wasn't, I'd ask you to give your opinion briefly, even though you're reluctant to. [[Professor, the question is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u101	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator... [[Oh, I'm sorry. Excuse me.]] Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u102	Then I'll ask about the jury, too. I spoke in the debate during the proceedings of the Supreme Court Act and I said that the jury in the Supreme Court was chosen from among those who did not necessarily deal with the professional application of law or legal practice. In the face of such complex matter as will be considered in the Supreme Court, this is not an optimal idea. I would like to ask, was there a discussion during the committee's work on the purpose of changing the way the Senate chooses jury? Let me remind you that the previous law imposed such an obligation on the Senate to select jurors in secret mode. A month ago, there was a debate and a revision of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. The present law again imposes an obligation on the Senate, but the choice in open mode. I'd like to ask... And this will also involve the need to amend the Senate's Rules of Procedure as a minor act in a moment. I would like to ask if there was a discussion on this at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u103	Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u104	I'd like to ask you something. With the December change, and this is its development, we have talked a lot about how all these changes are going to help with the speed of procedures and the need for citizens to have better access to justice. And do you see the senator in this submission any point that will improve justice and make the gray citizen better access to justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u105	Thank you. And I give you the floor, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u106	Because the questions are mostly about the jury, I'll start with them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as many years of practice, I can say here with full commitment that I very much appreciate the institution of jurors and jurors present in the courts, because they bring an element of real life and experience, which is often a complement of professionality, perhaps very well prepared, but often having little experience in the life of judges. I believe that especially in those courts which rule in lower instances, the jurors' institution is very much needed and indicated. Unfortunately, in the past period, after 1989, as a result of procedural changes, the jury was almost eliminated. They stayed in divorce cases and in a few other categories of cases. And luckily they're still there. Therefore, the restored institution of jurors, although only in the Supreme Court so far, I think it is good, especially in the Disciplinary Chamber, where the excessive severity of judges towards their colleagues by profession or from others, so to speak, of related corporations can sometimes be relaxed or filtered through the experience of jurors. Of course, it can be considered whether, in other cases where the court of law is more concerned than the finding of facts, the jury is needed and necessary. Where only the court of law is concerned... After all, the Constitutional Tribunal is such a typical example of the court of law, because it only deals with the assessment of the laws. Well, that's obviously where the jurors aren't needed, because they don't have the news the lawyer has about... After all, there are often requirements for dealing with a legal profession set at a minimum of 10 years. So it's often about a lawyer with a huge life experience. But in those cases where it's about finding out the facts about who to believe and who not to believe, the jury is very, very needed. That's the jury issue. Sorry, I missed my last question, not about the jury. Remind me. He asked them, I believe, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u107	Yes. Mr. Senator, the point was that the revised Supreme Court Act assumed the choice of jury in secret mode. We have therefore amended the Senate's Rules of Procedure to adapt it to the requirements of the bill, and this novel, the new law, restores... does not restore, but introduces a clear choice of jurors. So I'm asking. : Will it be necessary to ask a little rhetorical question again? I think we're gonna need it. And was this issue discussed? What were the reasons... [[Oh, yeah, okay. That line...]] ...changes in the way the Senate chooses jury?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u108	This issue has not been discussed. And returning to the question of Senator Pociej, the very customary question of the practice of how these changes will affect the functioning of the justice system in the sense of improvements for the defendants, I will say that of course this law does not apply to this matter, because it does not concern the matter of trial, that is to say, the procedure in specific cases, and it concerns more systemic matter relating to the Supreme Court. I have repeatedly pointed out that it is time that we really deal with changes in procedures, because the most important issue for the proper functioning of the justice system is the issue of proper procedures. For if we have judges of angels or righteous Catholics, if they are dressed in a corset of irregular procedures, it will be difficult to speak of achieving the purpose of justice, which is to give everyone what is due, according to the beautiful definition of Aristotle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u109	Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask, however, a question which is vitally relevant to the Senate. The only obligation that the Senate has on the Senate is the choice of jurors. That's what happened in the previous Supreme Court Act, and that's what's supposed to happen right now. There's a change of choice. Well, I can't imagine the Senate committee not talking, not debating a rule that concerns the Senate's powers. Well, maybe you'll be kind enough to reschedule your memory and try to remember something.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u111	Thank you very much. Was this issue discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u112	I don't remember her being discussed. Unless Senator Zientarski was discussed? [[Yes, it was discussed.]] I'm sorry, I don't remember that. [[You don't remember...]] I just said from myself today at first... As you asked me, what are the motives of these changes, I said that I could guess that we wanted to adapt the legal solution to what we ourselves adopted in the Rules of Procedure, that all votes were public. But to be honest, I don't recall this matter being discussed. I'm very sorry if I forgot, but I think Senator Zientarski is going to present his views.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Piotr Zientarski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u114	Mr Senator, the question that I believe is important: what were the arguments for your support and the majority of the committee's rule, which is empty, which is impossible to implement? I'm thinking of the Legal Bureau's attention to, as I recall, art. 131, i.e. the possibility for judges to move from other chambers to the Disciplinary Chamber. Clearly, our legislator has shown that it is an empty recipe... sorry, a dead recipe, because when creating a Disciplinary Chamber, the President of the Disciplinary Chamber is required to agree, which will not yet be. It's like if you apply for a pensioner's allowance to ask both parents' permission. It's on this principle, it's just impossible here. And it's been shown. Why, then, are you introducing a rule that is dead, which is unenforceable?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u115	Thank you. Senator Adam Gawada. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, as a matter of fact, on this first part, the senator has already provided quite broad information. The matter considered by the Supreme Court is very broad, often going beyond the matter strictly Legally, it affects the various areas of functioning of the State, including complex economic areas, and, as the senator pointed out, jurors in this area can be very helpful, pointing out these practical aspects. But I do have a question. In my opinion, it doesn't raise any doubts, but does the senator see any serious threat in the fact that we're gonna be choosing the jury in a public vote? In my opinion, this does not create any conflict, but if this was discussed at the committee's meeting, I would ask for brief information, as well as an answer to the question I asked at the beginning, related to the real need for the jury to function in the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u117	Thank you very much. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u118	Senator rapporteur, I'm a little surprised about the jury, too, because I'm a little surprised. We recently voted, Mr. Senator, that the jury's selection is classified, and we voted it out in the Rules of Procedure. And now there's a legal proposal to make the choice public. What is it, Senator, in this contra-dans, that the choice is to be made public? Does this ensure the freedom of the senators to choose the jury? Isn't the secrecy of the vote exactly what ensures freedom of choice, freedom of decision? And jurors play the role of judges. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u119	Thank you. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the choice of jurors is a very important issue, because jurors have the same powers as professional judges. I even remember my friends talking sometimes. Somewhere over there at the coffee court buffet, and they talked about different cassocks, when it turned out that two jurors voted a professional judge who in this situation wrote a separate sentence. So that there is a tremendous force of action of the jury. Hence the concern that their choice should be correct is justified. Personally, I think it would be better if the choice was secret, because it gives greater discretion. 'Cause I know if I have an example. Three friends of those who take off for this function, X, Y and Z, and I'm gonna have to skip one of them, I'd rather not have the one left out. And in all personal matters, the rule is usually like this. After all, you know from the functioning of various kinds of institutions such as associations, foundations That there are provisions that state that personal voting is secret. Therefore, I do not hide that in my opinion it would be better if these jurors were elected secretly. [[I make such an amendment, Senator.]] [[Good. Thank you very much...]] Good. Have I exhausted the subject? Because she was here. I think there's more to it than that. I think Senator Zientarski was asking about the jury, too. [[Not about the jury. No. The dead recipe that...]] Oh, that recipe is dead. Yes? [[Yes.]] Mr. Senator, he's not really dead by nature. It is a matter of fact that everything will depend on how quickly all the judges of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court will be filled. Well, if this happens soon enough, this period, as you say, is going to be very short. But... [[But in creation...]] ...it's hard to assume that he's even dead, as the senator calls it. What makes you think he'll be dead? He'll be dead until... [[The Legislating Bureau has made it clear...]] ...when... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[What do you mean, no?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] [[Cannot create...]] [[Quiet, please!]] [[And when you create...]] In my opinion, he'll only be dead if he doesn't make a quick decision about... I'm sorry, the other way around. Until all posts are filled in the Disciplinary Chamber, he will not be dead. Only then, when the cast comes, will he be dead because there will be no need for it to function. Well, that's the pronunciation of that recipe. I don't know where the senator thinks he's gonna be dead. [[Voice from the hall: He will rest.]] No, the rule clearly states: by the date of the cast of all posts in the Disciplinary Chamber, the judge who is in another chamber may move to her. [[But there won't be a CEO, which means it won't be possible...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[...to obtain the approval of the president who won't be there.]] [[Mr. Senator, this is not a discussion.]] [[So there's no way to move...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[...other judges from other chambers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u121	Mr. Senator, this is not a discussion. You already asked the question, and the senator answered it, I understand. Yes? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Good. Thank you very much. Is that all the comprehensive answers from you, Senator? [[Yes, sir.]] Good. It's Senator Piotr Zientarski now. Please, a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u122	Another one, yes. Mr. Senator, it's about finance. There was talk about it, because among others. I was talking about it. Namely, it is a matter of incapacitating the first President of the Supreme Court in deciding on the budget appropriations for this excellent Disciplinary Chamber and remuneration. What is the justification for having her budget, deciding even without notifying the first President of the Supreme Court of Poland of the transfer of funds and extra-remuneration, i.e. 40% allowances, those judges, often of lower qualifications, because this is a statutory option, in relation to judges from other chambers?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u123	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't any more. That's what I'm asking for and we're gonna ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u124	Mr. Senator, on both the finances and the privileged remuneration of the judges of the Disciplinary Chamber, because, as you mentioned, 40% Higher, there was no discussion... [[It was because I was talking about it. It's you... we weren't at the same committee meeting.]] Mr. Senator, you keep saying it was. It wasn't. I say it wasn't. That's it. [[Voice from the room: No.]] We're not gonna argue, it's gonna be protocol. If you have another position, please present them, but I am not going to bid on what was and what was not the subject of the sitting. I'm sure it wasn't a question of salary. [[Like it wasn't?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u125	Good. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. I understand there are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. We have a government representative with us today, Senator... excuse me, Minister Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No, thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll answer any questions I may have.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: Yes, Rybicki.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Senator Sławomir Rybicki first, then Senator Zientarski. Minister, come in. You ask Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I will repeat the question to which I have not received an answer from the Senator. This was not the subject of debate at the committee meeting, but it seems important to me from the point of view of assessing the constitutionality of the law. Namely, the President will be given the privilege of designating a judge acting as the first President of the Supreme Court for a period of up to 12 months. This decision, in accordance with Polish law, will require countersignation of the Prime Minister of the Government. And I would like to ask the Minister to assess whether such a solution will not distort, will not undermine the constitutional division of power as the foundation of a democratic rule of law. We know that the Prime Minister is also a political entity and is subject to some political agreement. Is it not, then, that there is a fear that the executive and political powers have too much influence over the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u127	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Piotr Zientarski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u128	Minister, I understand that you have read the comments of our Legislative Office regarding this bill. My question is similar to what I have just addressed to your rapporteur. Why, then... And if that's not the case, explain it, because the Legal Office clearly justifies the fact that it does. That provision will be dead because it will not be possible to move other judges to this Chamber, it will not be possible to take advantage of this possibility of Article. 131. Why is such a provision introduced?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... I don't see you. Please, Minister, answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As to the question of Senator Rybicki relating to the countersignation and possible risks associated with the political factor, it is clear that the Prime Minister, as an active politician involved in such a procedure, may cause... If it were the same as the senator suggests that there is a necessary countersignal here, then such a threat would not be abstract and one might wonder, but it seems that it is not. There's no obligation to countersign, because of the article. 144 of the Constitution, from this list of presidential prerogatives, in paragraphs 20, 21, 22 and 23, it follows that the President without the countersignal of the President of the Council of Ministers appoints I have no constitution in front of me, the first President of the Supreme Court, the Presidents of the Chambers of the Supreme Court, the President and Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Administrative Court, the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal, etc. So he calls people to the highest positions of President in these three supreme courts, so to speak. In applying the normal method of legal application, I would argue that, since the President has such authority, without having to obtain a countersignation, in the case of the first President or the Presidents of the Supreme Court Chambers, it should be considered that all the more so is the authority to designate the person who will serve as the first President of the Supreme Court. So the threat that the senator rightly mentions seems hypothetical because we are in constitutional standards. Of course, there may be other views on this issue, I do not deny it, but the view presented by the Ministry of Justice is this. He seems to be fully entitled. As to the question of Senator Zientarski, who said that, in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, it would not be possible to pass between chambers, it also seems that there is no such threat. Of course, it is necessary to obtain the consent of these 3 entities identified in the article. 131, but when a meeting of the National Judicial Council is convened, when the Council starts to proceed, it will be possible to appoint people to hold all these positions, including the President of the Disciplinary Chamber, the President of the other chambers, the first President of the Supreme Court, and then it will certainly open up the possibility of moving between chambers. So if there is such a danger, it only applies to a judge who would, I don't know, have moved between chambers to act as President of the Chamber. And the thesis put forward by your senator, behind the Legal Office, is different. That there will be no transfers at all. It seems that such a thesis is not entitled. What's more, you might wonder It's also, I think, a promising direction of interpretation. - or that competence under Article. 131 cannot be performed by a person appointed by the President to act as the first President or President of the Chamber, and then we would have no problem at all, but this would probably require more detailed consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u131	Thank you very much. Now you ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about this financial structure. Who do you think the minister will be responsible for budget overruns in the Supreme Court? Will the first president, or will any responsibility also rest on the person who will be responsible for the Disciplinary Chamber? And do you see a minister in Polish law any institution of public finance, which has such a structure that there is a head of the unit, and the head of the department of this unit can shape the budget according to... transfer between departments at his own discretion?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark. [[Thank you very much, because just now Senator Blackobay...]] He asked the same question. [[...he asked the same question. Thank you.]] Thank you. Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u134	Minister, I'm going back to Senator Rybicki's question. It's about the contra-assignment. Since this change in the interpretation of presidential prerogatives 'Cause you mentioned it in your answer. And who did the constitutionalists give an opinion on this change? Because you recalled the position of President of the Constitutional Tribunal. And remember that there was a situation that Mrs Julia Przyłębska was first appointed as President of the Constitutional Tribunal and, surprisingly, 'Cause that's quite the opposite of what you're saying. Next to the President's signature is the countersignal of Prime Minister Szydło. Why the change at this point? Why in that situation did you consider that, however, this does not fall within the prerogatives, and at the moment, in a similar situation, when you also mention with one piece, so to speak, these powers, the prerogatives of the President, the situation is to be different? What is the result of this change?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u135	Thank you very much. And Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u136	Thank you. I, strengthening Senator Zientarski's voice, wish to invoke the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2nd Constitution, which states that the official And here are listed numerous official acts which require this countersignation, among others. appoint the Presidents of the Supreme Court and the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Administrative Court. And I'd like to ask the Minister about constitutionality. That is the same aspect that I referred to earlier to the interference of the executive authority in the independence of the judiciary, manifested in this law by competence for the President of the Republic, who will be able to freely shape the rules of the Supreme Court. Well, it's unprecedented, we said there were decisions in the times of the Polish People's Republic, where the Minister of Justice was competent and exercised these powers to give the Supreme Court the rules of operation... What is the Minister's assessment on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u137	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u138	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Maybe one at a time. Senator Czarnobaj asked who would be responsible for the budget overrun. I'm assuming he's not gonna make it. The history of the Supreme Court so far doesn't seem to record such a situation, but... [[And how is he going to perform?]] [[Exactly.]] ...hypothetically. Gentlemen, senators, you're right. The question may be asked: what if it were? With my belief that those with such high functions will not lead to such a situation, it seems to me that... here we have a responsibility for violating public finances. This is the responsibility of a specific public authority associated with the disposal of public funds. And you're gonna have to settle this hypothetical situation, taking into account who made the decision. Well, on an individual basis... Every decision, including the one on the management of public funds, has its own author. If it were the decision of the first President of the Supreme Court, he could potentially be held liable, and if it were the decision of the President of the Disciplinary Board, that person would be liable. Of course, I reserve that I am not a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and I am perhaps not as skilled in the discipline of public finances as the senators would expect, but that is what I understand. The question was, did I? The Ministry or the government see a similar structure somewhere in another area of public finances. To be honest, I can't answer that question because... as I say, we're not professionals, I mean, I'm not a public-fund professional. The Ministry of Finance and its representatives would be more fluent in this subject and may be able to point out an appropriate example of whether the relevant examples, or perhaps a novel. I don't know the answer to that question. I'm not gonna hide it. I don't know an institution like that. Senator Zientarski is asking, since when did this change of interpretation... [[...constitution.]] ...yes, the Constitution, the Art. 144, recalling the case of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. When the countersigning came in, Prime Minister Szydło... I reserve that this is the position that... the interpretation that I have presented. And which I'm supporting. This is the interpretation of the Ministry of Justice. The final interpreter of this whole situation will, of course, be the President's Office, because that is where the decision must be made. whether or not a specific person should be appointed with the use of countersignals by the institution. Therefore, we, as the Ministry of Justice or the Government, are not the subject of this question. I presented the interpretation we accept. If Senator Zientarski presents another, pointing to a certain event from the past, then of course I respect it... [[It was the President who said so, and the Prime Minister signed it.]] ...but I must add that, as I recall, we did not present our own interpretation of the article as the Ministry of Justice at the time. 144 constitutions. Therefore, it is difficult for us to accuse the contradictions of positions occupied at that time and today. Like I said, This concerns the question of Senator Ziientarski as well as the questions of Senator Rybicki referring to him. The final interpreter of these rules will be the President and he will decide how such a vocation should take place. And the last thing Senator Rybicki said, as I recall, is the President's right to regulate certain parts of the reality connected with the operation of the Supreme Court in the Supreme Court Rules. The government does not find anything perverse in the formulation of rules which leaves quite significant but acceptable in our view the freedom of the President as to how to internalise the functioning of the Supreme Court. Whether it is constitutional or not, of course we will not ultimately decide, neither the High Chamber nor the Government nor the Minister of Justice, but the Constitutional Tribunal, if such a case goes there. Our interpretation of this situation is that it does not violate any constitutional norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u139	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns Article. 1 point 8b, where paragraph 5 is added, which says that the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court elects and presents candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland without delay. My question is: doesn't the Minister think that after the President immediately took the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and after the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal were published immediately, we should not start using any other time limits? Because it's already a little disappointing. The second question concerns paragraph 10, which states that, within a period of 12 months from the date of entry into force of this Law, the provisions adopted pursuant to Article. 4 do not require an opinion by the College of the Supreme Court. If the Minister could explain to me why this is happening and why these powers are suspended... I've always thought that these types of laws are pretty dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u141	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. That's the last question, Minister. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u142	Of course. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, We are both qualified lawyers, and we know very well that in the system of law, actually in each of its widely understood segments, and civil, and criminal, and systemic, this wording appears immediately. It is really not the most precise one, because you can imagine that some deadlines are defined per second, but it makes regulations more flexible and allows you to adjust the deadline for a certain action, in this case the presentation of candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland, to the circumstances, to a given situation. It appears that this is an appropriate and appropriate way to formulate the term in the proposed §5 in Article. The 111th Supreme Court Act. The second question concerns those 12 months when there is no need to consult the College of the Supreme Court. This is a transitional situation, as the location of the rule shows, created as soon as possible and with as little complications as possible, in order to determine the way the Supreme Court operates after the changes that follow following the implementation of the law which was adopted and which, I believe, will be adopted. It should also be noted that the college as it will be after the entry into force of the law will not appear to be representative of the future composition of the Supreme Court. It is therefore better for the President to have greater freedom here. After the end of the transitional period laid down in the draft for 12 months, when the Supreme Court will already function in the structure that we know from the provisions of law which have just entered into force and which today are being examined by the High Chamber, the College representing the Supreme Court with all the new chambers, which have been filled with chambers, will carry out an opinion on the draft rules submitted by the President of the Republic. These are, by nature, transitional provisions that allow the functioning of the Supreme Court to be adapted as quickly as possible in the first period and as best as possible to the new legal environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Grażyna Sztark. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Contrary to the project's declarations, the aim of the project is not merely to introduce changes of a more precise nature. Thus the first President of the Supreme Court begins his legal opinion with a draft law amending the Supreme Court Act. And although it seemed that there could be nothing worse and more destructive than the bill prepared by the President In quotes, of course. And then amended by the Members of Law and Justice in the Sejm, it was this law that confirmed that it could. Although it is a short text, it still contains many drawbacks Constitutional defects, procedural defects and defects related to the very nature of the Supreme Court. I will not refer to violations of the law during the proceedings of the Law in the Sejm, but it is appropriate to recall the words of the President of the Parliament's Committee on Justice and Human Rights, who gave an exhaustive answer to the question of the legal basis for the application of the shortened procedure: the Marshal of the Sejm decided so. This isn't a joke. This is how in the 21st century the Supreme Court Act is amended in a country that is a member of the European Union without proper procedure. As a summary of this thread, I would add that the adoption of a law in breach of the legislation and the legislative procedure is the basis for declaring a law incompatible with the Constitution without examining its substantive content. If the rulers have made a mockery of the Constitutional Tribunal, then the audit must take place in a public debate. Therefore, by replying to Professor Bobka here, whom I think we all respect very much, and Minister Radziwiłł I am pleased that it is present here, and I stress that we must talk about violations of the Constitution, because the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and its freedom are our anchor. And that is the case with this bill. The members of the PiS proposed the introduction of a new institution, unknown in the Constitution or in any other legal act of the Polish legal order, namely a judge acting as the first President of the Supreme Court. As everyone knows very well, the Supreme Court Act prepared by President Andrzej Duda assumes that the term of office of the first Professor of the First President should be extinguished even before the end of its six-year period guaranteed by the Constitution. So knowing that there will be a vacancy in such an important position After all, it will be unlawful, but he will most likely appear to be entitled to indicate the judge performing these duties to the President. This is a violation of the once sacred principle of the threefold division of power described in the article. Ten constitutions. So the president, who is a representative of the executive authority, one person, without consultation, will point to the person who will direct the entire Supreme Court, not for a week or two, but even for 12 months! Why? Please pay attention to the proposed design. Well, the election of the new first President of the Supreme Court can be made if it is placed 100% Judges' seats, i.e. if 110 judges are adjudicated. So if there are 100 or 109 judges, the Supreme Court will not be able to have a legally elected President of the Supreme Court, and the appointments for the vacant seat will be decided by none other than President Andrzej Duda. So until the President takes care of the full cast of the Supreme Court, he will be able to decide for one person who will rule the most important court in Poland. This is ridiculous. It's just... It's more of a stupid thing to do with a simple lust for power. What about the Supreme Court jury? In what mode will the Senate choose them, in open or secret ballots? After all, that's why we changed the Senate's Rules of Procedure to match it to this bill. And now how are we going to pick them? It is also unconstitutional to consider the proposal to ensure total financial autonomy for the President of the new Supreme Court Disciplinary Chamber, which will be Zbigniew Ziobra's armed arm to punish disobedient judges and other lawyers. That's what I want to draw attention to. It's a pretty good whip for lawyers, too. A model is created as a model of a country in the country. The judges there will be paid well, they will be paid 40%. more than any other specialist, such as the judges of the Supreme Court Civil Chamber. And imagine that nobody No, except for the informal influence of Minister Ziobra or others. In addition to the President of the Disciplinary Board, of course, it will have no impact on the huge financial resources. I am referring here to the first President of the Supreme Court, who, according to the Constitution, is responsible for the finances of the Supreme Court. If any control mechanisms are allowed here, there is an opportunity for abuse and pathology, but since this is supposed to be a chamber for special tasks, it has also obtained special powers. That's why I'm asking for the whole bill to be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u145	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna take two cases. The senator was just talking about how the jury would be elected, whether it would be a secret vote, as it was... Well, just reject this bill and then nothing will change here, and it can practically be rejected entirely without any damage. I'm gonna take two cases. The first is the matter on which the transfer to the Disciplinary Board was discussed. So far it's been like this. It's an art. 131 That until the date of the seat of all judges of the Supreme Court in the Disciplinary Chamber, the Judge from another Chamber shall not be transferred to that Chamber. And here's what's going to happen: judges holding a position in other chambers of the Supreme Court on the date of entry into force of this Act may be transferred to positions in the Disciplinary Chamber. A judge holding a post in another Chamber of the Supreme Court submits an application for transfer to the Disciplinary Chamber, etc., where the procedure is mentioned. And it doesn't bother me that this recipe will be dead. Because it's clear that as far as the Disciplinar Chamber is concerned... We know about the earnings to be made in this Disciplinary Chamber, we know whether it will rule, and there is no doubt that this provision will be dead. That explanation of the Minister I just heard, of course, doesn't convince me. Because there's no record that if there's no first president of the Supreme Court, then, as in the Jury Act, it's gonna be the person the President will appoint who will be the President of the Supreme Court. And then the matter would be clear. Since this record is missing, this recipe will be dead. And you will not make such an amendment because of the time, because the amendment would have to be incorporated into the bill, it would have to go back to the Sejm. Therefore, it can be made clear that this provision will be dead. Now on a very important matter, these financial matters, the autonomy of the President of the Disciplinary Chamber in the field of finance... She's very wide. In fact, this president decides practically on the entire budget of the Supreme Court. And the question remains, you can ask yourself whether this is in line with the Public Finance Act. I'll try to answer that right away. Well, there's no agreement, there's no agreement, there's no agreement, it's just that the president's moving in the different departments. The first President of the Supreme Court shall be the first authorising officer in respect of the measures. In part, in some cases, also in the third degree. But as far as the Disciplinary Chamber is concerned, the third degree will be the chairman of this House. Which, of course, clearly conflicts with the Public Finance Act, Art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The head of the public finance sector unit is the person responsible for the entire financial economy, etc. And this is the first president of the Supreme Court. So it's fighting. This discussion, who's gonna answer... We know who will answer: the first president of the Supreme Court. And if he's held accountable for the discipline of public finances... He's the one who's gonna be responsible. As I said at the beginning, in the opinion on the law amending the law, we have mentioned what this law changes. There's virtually nothing going to happen if this bill doesn't come into force. I'm not gonna quote that here. We all have it. I therefore submit, together with Mrs Grażyna Sztark, as she said here, a motion to reject the bill. This is the first conclusion. I also submit a second application with Mrs Grażyna Sztark. As if the bill wasn't rejected... And that, of course, will happen, and I am convinced that it will be accepted without amendments. But it's our job to show mistakes in this bill. And the amendment concerns these financial matters. So the point is, if it's in the article. 1 we will delete paragraph 1 and that is where these paragraphs are added, i.e. §5 and §6 of the Law on the amendment of the Law, it will not be any matters related to financial, discipline, etc. He'll be here. You know who's responsible for what. Therefore, I submit a second application for the deletion of Article. Point 1 1. It was those two cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You can ask yourself again, as in previous laws, in what mode we work, in which mode this law is introduced. A fundamental law again concerning fundamental laws relating to the Supreme Court. And by quoting the classics, you could say no mode. But that's not true here. I would like to say and quote what Senator Shark and Senator Florek have said. The bill was submitted in non-constitutional mode, with unconstitutional content. In more detail, what you're proposing... If you read all of this and listen to the discussions from the committee meeting and the opinion presented to the Legislative Bureau, you can notice that the non-constitutional mode is as characteristic as possible for the creation of this law. These laws, and especially this law, are another element of strengthening the executive authority. The executive authority, which is to function not only in control, but also in control. It can be said that it is a suggestion that influences judicial authority. The model you're looking for isn't very good. That's one thing. Second, when you look at the results of the Sovereign's trust study How beautifully you're saying. To politicians, it can be noted that senators and MEPs, these are those who enjoy one of the lowest levels of trust in society. Therefore, the introduction of increasing control powers, but also those that may suggest... affect what is happening in court, is bad and bad. You're creating a technological sequence, speaking engineering. That is, we influence... Otherwise: we appoint the National Courts, we influence the Supreme Court, we appoint the Presidents of the Courts, and this is a direct transfer to the heads of various departments in courts, etc. You are creating a technological sequence of influence by the ruling coalition on what concerns the functioning of the court, but also on what is involved in the decision-making of the court. And finally, two words about what Senator Florek was talking about when it came to finance. Well, let me be honest, I've seen different mishmas in your execution when it comes to drafting laws, but a project that is the head of the unit that is responsible for the budget... And in the meantime, you're creating new concepts, empowering the President of the Chamber to move money between cannons and spend it at his discretion. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to trivially illustrate this, I would say that if it were so that your neighbour is entitled to spend money from your common budget, e.g. for one street... and your neighbor will be able to decide what the money goes for. It's so trivial that you understand. There is no such construction in the democratic world. Minister... The minister isn't here, but he said, according to my knowledge, it's gonna be like the boss is gonna answer. Yeah, the boss answers, and the subordinate... Perhaps otherwise: the Supreme Court president of one of the departments will spend the money as he thinks. Well, there's no logical structure in the world. So you have to create one. That someone from the Party of Law and Justice will be responsible for the finances of the Supreme Court. And then we're gonna have one liability recipient in case we break the discipline of public finances. If we add to that the great autonomy of the Disciplinary Chamber with the same payment of 40% more... I am the one asking the rhetorical question: why do you, as executive, legislative authority, have such an influence on judicial authority? Why? Don't tell me you want to improve your functioning, because we already see how these courts function, what statistics are in the last two and a half years. Not only that it's not better, it's worse. Not only is it not cheaper, it is even more expensive etc. Therefore, I would like to ask you, once again, in the case of these laws relating to the reform of the Polish judiciary: decide on the courage, get off your knees and vote together with the opposition, rejecting the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u149	Thank you. And Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Well, I'm sorry to say this from the podium. And I do it so often and so many times. We're breaking the constitution again, which means we're misrepresenting ourselves to the state of law again. After all, it is not possible to change the act of the lower order in the pyramid of the Polish legal system, which is called the Constitution and was adopted in a special way. I won't talk about it anymore, but it's not just a matter of name, it's also a question of how to pass, approval, it's a matter of the will of the sovereign, not of the parliamentary majority elected at a given time. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only take care of a few things, although it is actually possible to talk about this law for hours, such the most gross cases. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are introducing new institutions into the Constitution by law. Person performing the function There's no such thing. It is the first President of the Supreme Court, but there is no President. There is no such thing in the Constitution and the Act cannot introduce new functions than those which are clearly defined and to which constitutional powers are clearly assigned. And it is not a coincidence that the President, calling Mrs Julia Przyłębska, sent after the signature... Minister, I would like to remind you once again, because this was discussed at the committee meeting and I am surprised that you have not read this and that you are presenting the view of the Ministry, which is grossly contrary to the position of the President. There's a countersignal from the Prime Minister. If that's the case, there's still a public addiction here. Guidelines that supposedly have... The recommendations of the European Commission and the Venice Commission are to be implemented in this law in order to strengthen the rule of law, i.e. to return to the three divisions of power, and it turns out that we are still limiting, reducing the powers of judicial authority for the sake of the executive authority, because we are introducing dependence on the Prime Minister's countersignals. Well, of course, of course. And, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that we spoke very much about at the committee meeting, the question of this dead rule of the article. 131 and the possibility of other judges moving to the Supreme Court, to this Disciplinary Chamber. I submit a number of amendments on behalf of myself, Senator Flork and Senator Shark. I'm not gonna read them anymore because I have 10 minutes and another 5 minutes, there's 17 of them in total. There you go, that's them. [[Thank you.]] They restore constitutionality. 'Cause since this Disciplinary Board is forming, it's... I don't agree with one of the speakers who said it was actually... I think that's what you said, Senator Florek, but I wouldn't exactly share the argument that it doesn't matter. Well, in my opinion, it matters, because it's an important matter whether judges who are judges, real judges appointed earlier by the Constitutional National Judicial Council, with experience, authority, or those who are called on the basis of a bill which, I'll say the most delicately, reduces the requirements of being... How proud the words of the Supreme Court judge and the Constitutional Court judge are. For every lawyer, it's the crowning of a legal career. Undisputed. Being a Supreme Court judge is the end of a career. This is indeed a professional crown for a judge. There's no doubt about that. It turns out that we are lowering the requirements by giving the possibility of the National Judicial Council, dependent on the Minister of Justice I'm not going to develop it anymore. . forming a personal composition. Plus, ladies and gentlemen, we're creating a chamber. I want to find the right words here. The President of this Chamber has more authority than the first President of the Supreme Court. And we specially address to it the extra stream of taxpayers' money additionally for a judge in this Chamber who, as I said, does not have to meet the requirements that the Supreme Court judge has so far met. Well, it's more than the President and the Prime Minister have. You can count it. And I'm asking, for what? What are those judges supposed to get almost 40% for? More? I don't get it at all. In addition, they are free to shape the functioning of the Chamber, even at the expense of the entire Supreme Court, without the opinion of the head of the unit, the first President of the Supreme Court. You don't need to be an expert on public finance law, Minister. Everyone knows that the head of the unit is responsible for the violation of discipline, not the author of an idea, as you call it. And here the head of the unit is kind of an illusory manager. The first President of the Supreme Court shall not decide on all the actions of the Supreme Court. I said, what's this for? Why? What are these judges supposed to be so paid for with our taxes? I don't get it. But you can guess. There are a lot of discussions about this in society. This is a special salary. Because there, in this chamber, there will be disciplinary matters, as well as lawyers and insubordinate judges. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law not only does not strengthen independence, as it is written in the explanatory memorandum, but it continues to deepen the limitation, exposure... Of course, independence is in the soul, in the heart of the judge, but there are also external conditions, these so-called. freezing effects. And unfortunately, the judges will suffer the consequences for their lack of independence. Unfortunately, some already bear them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let alone an outside reception. According to the first opinion, the President of the Supreme Court, who views these laws, absolutely does not meet the requirements, does not satisfy the guidelines or the European Commission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u151	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator Zientarski, I did a pretty quick calculation of what you were talking about, and it looks like it's gonna be okay. $20,000 on this judge. But I also found out where that money's coming from in the budget. If he takes 560 parliamentarians, that's enough for this new chamber. So we found a source of funding for these raises. [[Voice from the room: I'm in.]] I would like to say that in this law, as in the lens, you can see how much this haste affects the quality of the law, is disregarding the opinions of lawyers, or actually doing without them. Well, in this bill, amending a law that came into force about 10 days ago and is already being changed in a very serious way... In December, when the last law was passed, our Legislative Office reported a series of amendments. And then the representatives of the ministry claimed that everything was absolutely thought out, that everything was okay and protested against every amendment. No amendment has passed, no amendment has been recognised. Now we have 3 provisions just out of these amendments. Congratulations! We have to work on it again, but well. [[Voice from the room: This is bullshit.]] This way of proceding... I am no longer talking about the fact that we have less time than the minimum, and that every time we have to vote in committee, we are going to proceed in an accelerated manner. But even if there were 24 hours for such serious solutions, it would still be scandalous that we don't have, as in the previous few terms, weeks or two weeks. After all, there are senators here who have worked in previous terms and know that we have always had that time. Each party, also the opposition, had the opportunity to prepare for such a serious bill. After all, this is our whole system that's gonna be plowed, and no one really knows in this room what's gonna hatch out of it. Because we think it's gonna be a legal monster. We don't have that time at all. And let me remind you that, in previous terms, most often the attention of our legislators, especially if these were legislative comments, were accepted, but then there was no situation that something had to be commended for the deadline. What's the deadline? Well, it's about the first president of the Supreme Court. And don't tell me it's anything else. Why in this law art. 111 §4 is replaced by the following: If he's fired? Well, that's what the bill says. It just forgot to write what would happen if she was fired. The same was true for the Constitutional Tribunal, which we discussed on Friday and today. And then there was this record that most of them were... Well, there's no majority, completely paralyzed by this institution. Jury. I understand the jury's gonna be making the same amount of money in this room. Such powerful money will get these people, and here actually there is no scientific census, no experience census. It could be anyone. That's the juror's role. The Senator rapporteur spoke about how he, as a lawyer, appreciates the fact that the jury is in court. Well, I agree with him 100%. But why aren't we debating today about expanding the jury's participation in the work of the courts of first instance, which is where they're really good for it? No, such an amendment allegedly wanting to improve the functioning of the courts of justice did not propose. Nobody thinks about it at all. And yet the Supreme Court is a court of law, not a fact. Let anyone explain to me what added value the Supreme Court will be to the jury if they are simply people chosen by most of the judges outside the jury. And that's what it's gonna come down to. Dear fellow Senators, Dear Friends, not only is this bill wrong, this whole series of laws concerning the Supreme Court is a path in a terrible direction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u153	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that this law is also intended to bring this conflict closer to the European Commission. And that's what she's doing, I mean. equals the age of women, judges of the Supreme Court, men, judges of the Supreme Court. But that's not the point. That law on the Supreme Court broke the constitution, that's what I care about as a Polish senator and a Polish citizen. Well, she broke the Polish constitution. It's like a bull's record that the Supreme Court President's term of office lasts six years, and you're shortening it to four, and that's the point. You're not changing this situation, you're pretending again in this bill that you're making a difference without changing anything. It is known that the intention is to remove the current Supreme Court President, Mrs Gersdorf. And that's the bill, you could call it an accident bill... And the point is not to touch or violate the constitution. The Constitution states that the term of office of the President of the Supreme Court lasts six years, and it should last six years. That's the main issue. And at the same time, under the motto, we are going out to the European Commission, and you are throwing in a few more flowers. You create an extra-constitutional and basically non-constitutional function acting as President of the Supreme Court. In this way it will be possible to create in the future the functions of the judges of the District Courts, the District Courts... Why didn't you go this way? Well, you can also create a role as president. Well, it's just a lawless thing. The Disciplinary Chamber case. You introduce the Disciplinar Chamber as the equivalent of the entire Supreme Court and the President. The President of the Disciplinary Chamber will have an equal position for the President. Well, that is obviously contrary to a certain principle, a orderly organisational structure. There is also a contradiction in the fact that the President of the Supreme Court will have nothing to say about the budget, the implementation of the budget of the Disciplinary Chamber. He will formally supervise and formally be responsible for what the President of the Disciplinary Board will do, but at the same time he will have no real influence on it. Well, it's clearly causing conflict. And at the end of the day, I'm gonna leave a senate treat like this. There has been a change in the Supreme Court Act, which states that the Senate elects jurors to the Disciplinary Chamber. In the meantime, the Senate has decided to amend the Rules of Procedure, according to which all personal votes are to be made public. And it turned out that in this case voting should be secret. I believe that not only in this case, but in all cases of personal voting in the Senate should be secret. But not long ago. And that was the submission of the Senate Marshal, which was at his request back to the secret ballot as regards the jury of the Supreme Court's Disciplinary Chamber. And then what happens? Well, the bill under review restores the public vote. Well, it can't be, we're just making fun of each other. Once we say that the vote is to be public, then we say that the vote is to be secret, now again that it is public. Well, are we some kind of tub-rise? Juries serve as judges. So what's going on here? Why should the Senate vote openly? Is it because the political majority wants to establish that the people they're proposing are gonna be okay? Or maybe because the senators of the majority may have comments, but there will be a discipline of public voting? How can it be... For those who act as judges, are we to vote openly? This is, it would seem, unthinkable, but in this bill, this assumption is. I therefore make amendments: an amendment enabling the current President of the Supreme Court to complete his term of office and an amendment guaranteeing the Senate's selection of jury in a secret manner. Just in case. If they hadn't passed I also apply to reject this law. I think that at least this jurors issue, the proposal to which the Senator rapporteur, the Senator of the PiS Club, has responded positively... Well, it seems to me that at least this needs to be improved so that we don't take responsibility for what's going on in the Disciplinary Chamber. That's where I'd end up, 'cause I don't want to tell you anymore that... the bill we're amending barely came into force 10 days ago. We do not even deal with the child of the majority of the Sejm and the Senate, which PiS has, but in fact, with an obsessive. And we have to correct that, so to speak, to set the spine of this donkey. I think it's too soon to wait a while. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing: Piotr Florek, Bogdan Borusewicz, Piotr Zientarski, Grażyna Sztark, Barbara Zdrojewska. Anyone else signed there? No. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 791, and the Commission's reports in print No 791 A and No 791 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...I have the honour to submit a report in print No 791 A on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 13 April 2018 amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and certain other laws. At its meeting on 13 April, the Commission examined the law. The discussion was brief, there were few comments. There were 2 comments from the Legislative Bureau, but the committee concluded that these comments could be taken into account on the occasion of possible subsequent amendments, considering that this law was urgently needed. This is particularly the case for farmers who will be able to benefit from the so-called record. Helper of the farmer. So that you can hire this person and insure her at KRUS. As a result, farmers have worked very hard to be in such a form as to be able to introduce it. It's about the limited time of seasonal work, it's not a permanent solution, it's just seasonal, for harvest time. So helping with the harvest... We believe that this solution, which was proposed by the government, is a very good solution and my committee voted in full for it, there was no vote against it. Therefore, I ask the High House to support this important law, which should enter into force as soon as possible, as the field work on the strawberry harvest will soon begin. So before it comes into force... We ask that we no longer extend our work and, as we said at the committee meeting, not to make any amendments. But the senators' decision will be the decision we'll make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u157	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed at today's meeting the law on amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. This is the same law that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development discussed earlier. There were comments from the opposition senators. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn pointed out that there should be a completely new law on KRUS, not just that law, which will at the moment enable people helping in agriculture to work. Senator Jan Rulewski stated that this law practically creates an inequality of farmers vis-à-vis the representatives of individual trade unions. The Commission voted, 3 votes in favour, the opposition voted against. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to represent the government during parliamentary work. Minister Rafał Romanowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very grateful to the Convention of Seniors of the Higher Chamber of the Polish Parliament for the fact that this law is already being examined at today's meeting. As the senator said, or as the senator mentioned, it is a very important act for all workers so-called. Seasonal. It should be remembered that in sectors such as gardening and fruiting, with hops and tobacco, there are about half a million seasonal workers working in Poland. Very often they are workers from outside our country's borders. So far, the only legal nomenclature by which they were sanctioned was so-called. Work Agreement The contract for a work, however, in which it was very difficult to write the tasks performed by them in order to unite them, and the most important thing, i.e. Under this work agreement, they did not have basic protection, health protection and accident protection. And it is precisely in the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers that a new form of civil law contract has been developed, a contract on the basis of which these persons carrying out such tasks on farms will be able to undertake this work and, above all, will be protected in the field of health, and in the event of an unfortunate accident they will be able to receive a single accident benefit. In addition, the law regulates the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber regarding the activities of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. The catalogue of statutory tasks, which has so far been included in the statutes, is added to the act so that it is simply given a higher instance to documents on the basis of which the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund operates. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, as Senator Chróścikowski stated, this bill is essential. I've had the pleasure of talking to you and the marshal, and a lot of senators. We're about to start the season. The lower chamber of the Polish parliament shortened the vacathio legis for this law from 30 to 7 days, so that this law... that those workers who so far had no health or accident guarantees could already benefit from this privilege, which involves a monthly contribution of about 184 PLN. 142 zł, this is a health contribution, 42 zł is an accident contribution. The health component shall be calculated in accordance with the general system and shall not be accounted for proportionally and that part of the accident may be accounted for proportionally. High Izbo, I request that this bill be adopted at this meeting so that the President of the Republic can sign this bill and that from this basic privilege granted to every person performing the task of assistant in the collections... The point is that it could just be realized and that the security of those workers who have national experience in using it, and these are scandalous cases... We would like these workers and helpers to be able to enjoy these basic privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rotnicka. Go back to the podium, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u162	Thank you very much, Marshal. I didn't follow the bill. I have a question for you... I think it is really important that these seasonal workers have health and accident insurance. Does a farmer employing these workers have to report them and pay a premium, or does that cost be borne by someone else? Who pays the premium and how much for this seasonal worker? Because it's common to know that these people work, as they say, in black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u164	Minister, in order to make it easier for you to attend this meeting, we did not continue the discussion at the committee meeting. Nevertheless, I would like to ask now: why do you contribute to the tasks of the contribution fund to help to eliminate the damage that occurred on the farm? Up until now, the contribution fund as a voluntary contribution has been used to secure the pension insurance, accident insurance, parental insurance. There were minor exceptions, but this is actually a big derogation from the premium insurance system. I would like to ask, because we here in the Senate have already discussed the issue of insurance against damage caused by natural disasters and crises... It is known that the State adds substantial amounts to the contributions to the separate insurance. Why is a whole new task now being added? And second question. You include farmers' trade unions with those who could be in charge of this new task. Although you are referring to the law on public benefit activities in the form of an open competition for offers, trade unions are excluded. It's already in my mouth. The 4th article that talks about this case, you write that the trade unions will be able to compete in the competition of offers, but they will not have to. [[Okay, thank you very much, Senator. It's been a minute.]] I would ask you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u165	Okay, thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The answer to the first question is very simple. This is the one, in quotes, the employer, i.e. The farmer, the natural person who is currently producing selected agricultural products, bears the cost of the health contribution on 1 April is PLN 142 and the second part, i.e. the accident, 42 zł. This total cost is on the farmer's side, not on the helper's side in the harvest. The helper in the collections is obliged to pay income tax resulting from the income generated from such work. The farmer is obliged by the end of February each year to pay for such an employee of PIT-8C and on this basis the income tax is calculated. That's the information. Mr. Senator, we are returning once again to this very discussion, to this point. As I mentioned, what is added in the article. 77, which is exactly Article. 77a: the resources of the component fund may support activities in the public task areas referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 points 6, 10, 15 and 23 of the Public Benefit Act... As I mentioned, by presenting this law, this is the implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber. All these tasks of the contribution fund, which are written here, are now in the statutes of this institution and all these tasks are currently being carried out as well. The contribution fund consists of the contribution paid by farmers. Each farmer pays this premium on a quarterly basis in the amount of PLN 42 for himself or for the householder, and it is the money of the farmers. And that's the money. This law is adjusted even if a write-off for rehabilitation is involved, a minimum write-down from the component fund is also carried out. Mr. Senator's talking about this helping to eliminate the damage. Mr. Senator, you know very well that every farm is such a specific enterprise, specific because it is simply a production under the sky. And there are really very critical situations when only these basic farmers' organisations, such as agricultural self-governments, such as individual farmers' trade unions, reach these institutions and farmers much faster and are able to organise such assistance for them. These are not payments made e.g. for the negative effects of wintering, ejaculation or spring frosting. This is, for example. assistance organised for children in rural areas, i.e. children of parents insured at the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. In such situations, such organisations, the trade unions of individual farmers mentioned here, organise winter or summer holidays for these children. And that's what the money is spent on. Public benefit tasks are also security tasks and, among others, safety tasks. These measures are supported by basic security-related activities, namely the activities of voluntary firefighters. Thus, this catalogue of tasks is implemented only and only on the basis of the statutes of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. As I mentioned, the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber were that these tasks should be sanctioned in the Farmers' Social Insurance Act. That is why this is the implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Me too.]] [[And Senator Augustine.]] Oh, and Mr. Mieczysław Augustyn... [[It's for discussion.]] Oh, for discussion. [[I'm in the middle of a discussion.]] Minister, thank you. [[I'm in the middle of a discussion.]] Good. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's urgent because agricultural work is complete. In order to meet the demand for work in farms, Polish hands are not enough, it is necessary to expect that foreign workers will also be able to work with farmers, so it is certainly necessary to hurry. Attention one. Minister, agricultural work in this mode has always been done and the delay of the Ministry is a fact today. We can't pass this bill calmly, just in some extraordinary mode, as if we don't know. I thought the work would start at this time of night. We do it, but you should have thought about it a lot sooner. The second point is a whole series of questions that we would like to ask. You're right, Senator Rotnicka, saying that the good of this bill is to cover employees, let's call it seasonal insurance in agriculture. It is good that this issue should be regulated, because here consent, Mr. Minister, supporting the agreement for the work is, let's face it, quite questionable in this case. It is better to straighten this matter out. The State states in the explanatory memorandum that it is a model of some other countries. Okay. But it must also be made clear that the burden on farmers will increase. Well, there's nothing for free, you'll have to pay a flat-rate health contribution and that contribution divided according to the number of days worked, no, as so far it was possible, quarterly, but monthly. So there's nothing for free, they'll increase the farmers' burden, increase the budget a little bit. But I would like to show you, and I also showed this at the committee meeting, that this bill, apart from the good I am talking about, brings with it questionable things as well. Namely, instead of trying to reconcile pension insurance systems, both in terms of the amount of payments and in terms of the amount of contributions, unfortunately there is a movement in a different direction, in my opinion a slightly disintegrating system. I believe that some of the costs associated with the elimination of damage from the state are being transferred to the KRUS contribution system. But let's just say that you could take it if you were sure that everything was under control, which is in accordance with the Law on Public Use and Volunteering, and here it's only consistent with almost everything. Because here is a new entity that has the opportunity to apply for funds, among others. For these purposes, the trade unions of individual farmers have emerged and are precisely in relation to them in the mouth. 4 makes such an exception: everyone must compete in competitions and the trade unions of individual farmers can take part. This unequal treatment of entities is absolutely reprehensible. And the question is, what's going on here? Why should some have preferences? Why shouldn't they be subject to the same rigor that others are subject to? I am afraid that this is a targeted procedure to link the trade unions with the KRUS and indirectly with the government, which will reduce their independence in representing farmers. And the other thing... And it can be said that this has nothing to do with, nothing to do with the original purpose, which causes us to sit in such an extraordinarily mode. This is a drop-off about something completely different and probably completely different with a purpose. And another one like that, in my opinion. Although here on the pretext of new duties It is the creation of a special incentive fund at the farmers' register of 4% the planned expenditure of the contribution fund to do something that should be guaranteed by the budget law. And if it's as written in the Seym's explanatory memorandum I'm sure it is, Minister. That it's getting harder about the employees in the cash register that they're leaving that pay is too low, so that was the time when you could take care of it. And now, using the moment when extra tasks are introduced, you're trying to find at least a few pennies. Because it's not about big money, especially when it's converted into all KRUS employees. The Minister said that this is the difference between 83 and 120 PLN when it is converted into every employee. And what we're trying to prove is that this is due to the additional burden of only a few, some of the workers, who will be taking care of new tasks. Well, you've got to make up your mind about something. Either it goes to divide into all, or it goes to divide into some. Well, you're also calculating how many people you have to hire, and then these amounts are very different. You know what it looks like. Since the incentive fund is generally related to whether the chief's assessment of the tasks has been carried out, I'm afraid this is an additional one, so to speak, loose money to split. As it happens in life, some of them will be theirs again, who will get these bonuses, who will get extra wages to be even more motivated. It will not necessarily be given to those who have been assigned additional tasks under this law. It seems to me that this is a question that should raise our doubts, even in the context of the fact that we are watching now, and the PiS state is also making sure that someone additionally, in the form of bonuses, rewards And the incentive fund is the bonus money, the prizes. He didn't make his own pockets. In my opinion, this law, which is very generally formulated, gives such an excuse, such an opportunity. It seems like it's dangerous and you have to look into it. And at the end of the day, the Legislative Bureau's attention. Well, this bill, Minister, is unfortunately not well done. It may have been some kind of typographical error, but he has, ladies and gentlemen, material effects. It turns out that the incorrect mention in the amendment of the article. 88j paragraph. 1 point 3 causes such a situation that if someone who wants to hire a foreigner has previously been punished, then he cannot hire him, his case cannot be dealt with positively. But, ladies and gentlemen, if he's done this many times, he can do it now, there's no more ban on it. Of course, I'm sure the ministry wasn't about that. Well, neither I have any doubt about that, nor the Legislative Bureau has any doubt about it, because it would be absurd, but this absurdity must be corrected, not by referring to point 3, but point 4 of Article. 88j paragraph. 1. That's why I'm asking you to... Well, I understand that rush is, but on the other hand, such sloppyness cannot be passed by the Senate. We cannot accept the absurdity that is contained in this law. That's why I'm proposing two amendments. I think they're gonna improve that bill. I was just talking about the first one, and the second one's losing its mouth. 4 in this inserted article. 77a, which ensures special treatment for trade unions in the performance of public benefit tasks Under the rigor of this law, i.e. as part of the competition. Here you go, let the farmers' trade unions join those who will be able to carry out these tasks, but on an equal basis. Let them stand in the competition, let them win with their offer, let them do their best. And then it'll be right. Let us not give away privileges, especially when it concerns the money that farmers make up the contribution fund and which in principle should be used primarily for pension, accident and maternity insurance. Because there was a contribution fund. And we, instead of saying it so, seal and give up expenses that serve other purposes, are still further trying to seal it and make it properly uninsured, at least in some parts. I don't know if you know that even Polonia from this fund... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u169	Mr. Senator, it's already... It's been a long time, ten minutes. [[Thank you for reminding me.]] Thank you very much. [[I'm putting the Marshal of Corrections in your hands.]] Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the Minister for Agriculture for its rapid preparation. I would like to point out that not because of the Ministry, not because of the Ministry of Labour... It took a little too long in the Seym. If this were to be carried out more quickly in the Seym, it would not be dragged out in committees, I think we would not have such a time problem. But thank you for this solution. Farmers are very grateful for these actions. And I hope that we will be able to pass this law today without amendments, because the amendments, as we said at my agricultural committee meeting... The Minister was committed to the fact that, in the context of the next amendment, these comments which are falling, the issue of appeal... that this will be made. And that's why I'm asking you not to bring it in right now... Well, they've already been brought in, and I can't withdraw it, but there's a request for a law without amendment. As far as professional organisations are concerned, I would like to say that so far this has been the case in the Statute and there has always been such practice that organisations, trade unions, other institutions have also been in the competition. I think it's gonna be the same here, not different. This provision is moved and it is as it has been. And I think it's gonna be the same that they're gonna be participating now. But I wouldn't want to leave any doubt here because... I would point out that contributions are collected for two actions, not for pensions, just for these two actions, and here there is no harm, and even to say, we support farmers... Because the farmers' council consists exclusively of farmers, this council that controls these precisely farmers' contributions Because these are farmers' contributions, not from the state budget. This council appointed by the Minister of Agriculture... Well, there's the board of directors of the fund, and I'm reminding you, who controls and checks... Therefore, I do not see any shortcomings here. There's always control. So I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. Would you like to take the floor and refer to the amendment or the discussion that has been held? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No, thank you.]] No. [[Voice from the room: A wise man.]] Because he was... There's one conclusion, isn't there? As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to this proposal. ..or applications.. .. and to prepare a joint report. The vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. And we proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the law amending the law on the system of common courts, the law on the National Council of Courts and the law on the Supreme Court. The text of the Act is contained in print No 784, and the report of the Commission In print No 784 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which recognised the law on the amendment of the law on the system of common courts, the law on the National Council of Courts and the law on the Supreme Court. This amendment introduces a number of changes which I will try to present in points. First of all, it introduces a 2-step opinion on the intention to dismiss the President or Vice-President of the Court during his term of office. Such an intention to appeal, with written reasons, will now be presented by the Minister of Justice to the competent College of the Court in order to obtain the opinion of the College. The College shall, in giving a favourable opinion, authorise the Minister to dismiss the President or Vice-President. In the event of a negative opinion, the Minister cannot do so. The failure to deliver an opinion within 30 days, of course, does not prevent the appeal. The negative opinion of the College results in the Minister of Justice being able to present his intention to appeal, with written reasons, of course, to the National Judicial Council, which also responds to this intention. The positive opinion of the National Judicial Council means the possibility for the Minister of Justice to dismiss the President or Vice-President, the negative opinion shall be binding if it has been taken by a majority of 2/3 votes and the failure to deliver an opinion within 30 days shall not preclude such President or Vice-President of the Court. The second point concerns the harmonisation of the retirement age of judges, women and men. It will be the age of 65, completed. Of course, judges, at their request or declaration, will be able to rule longer. That is the will to be presented to the National Judicial Council. And the National Judicial Council, given the interest of justice or the important social interest, will assess whether the judge can rule after 65 years of age. Another issue is the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council. The amendments introduced concern the possibility of convening the first meeting of the National Judicial Council after the resignation of the Chair of the Board. The time limit for convening this meeting shall be set. This is 30 days from the date of the release of the President's position. This is the responsibility of the first President of the Supreme Court. However, unless this procedure is convened, the first meeting shall be convened by the oldest member of the council, who shall be a judge or a judge at rest. If, in turn, the meeting is not convened in such a way, this obligation shall pass on to the next oldest aged Judges or Judges at rest, of course members of the National Council of Courts. The Act also amends the Law on the Supreme Court, introducing a 30-day deadline by which the National Council of Courts will assess the possibility of transferring the Supreme Court judge to rest, of course after the age of sixty-five. The Commission held a brief discussion on the amendment. The discussion was attended by inter alia. Senator Florek, Senator Štark, Zientarski, Zdrojewska and Senator Pociej. A representative of the Ministry of Justice supported the bill. An application was submitted for adoption without amendment. That application was filed by Senator Mammoths. The Commission accepted this proposal. The committee therefore requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No, thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Any of you... Yes? This, Minister, please, on the floor. Senator Shark first and then Senator Alexander Pociej. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[I'll turn on the mike.]] I can hear you, Mr. Marshal. [[But it's not recording, so I have to. I want my voice recorded.]] Minister, we've been asking this question... [[Even in an imperfect way.]] ...at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Human Rights Committee. Is the position on signing the candidates for judges of the National Judicial Council... I'm sorry, it's not about the judges. It's about the members of the National Judicial Council. Has the Ministry changed its mind and spread the list of supporters? I'm asking because we don't know if we should treat them as elected members of the National Judicial Council under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u175	Thank you very much. Minister, wait a minute. Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u176	Minister, answering my question half an hour ago about whether the use of the word in the Act is immediately a good legislative step, I am talking about depreciating instantness in our political life, and you have answered me that this is very adequate. In this law it has so far been immediately, and now it is 30 days. Would you mind explaining to me why, in this law, the record of 30 days is better than the record used so far? Does this have anything to do with current politics?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u177	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask another question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u178	Thank you. I am talking about the final settlement of the possibility for the National Judicial Council to dismiss the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. We have quite a detailed description of this process, a description of how this is to be done in the absence of the consent of the National Court of Justice. It's a grading-- Minister, the regulations that we've been presenting-- that's the kind of question that's gonna be asked. In the case of a body such as the National Judicial Council, is the time limit laid down in the new provision sufficient in §5a? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u179	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't deny the validity of this bill. From what I understand, she was also proposed because of certain obstruction of action by the first Supreme Court President. Tell me, is this bill, as I say, immune to all procedural possibilities? Sometimes there are things we can't predict and procedures remain unfinished. What would happen if, for example, At the moment, the President resigned from the office of the first President of the Supreme Court, i.e. She would have called a council meeting, not... What if she quit her job? Who's gonna run the first board meeting? The same is true of the law we discussed, the Supreme Court Act. This law amends the Supreme Court Act and is designed to prevent possible obstruction. It is a question of the previous law. Art. 2 of the previous law secured the possibility of the election of the first President of the Supreme Court, after a possible resignation, in the event that the novel of the law we spoke about enters into force. Where this post is empty at the time of entry into force of this novel, the Article shall apply. Article 111 (4) and (5) shall not apply. 111a. [[Mr. Senator, because we're here right now...]] Yeah, yeah, I understand, but... [[Question, question.]] It's just... I just have a question... [[One minute to question. You're welcome.]] ...is the law amending the Supreme Court Act and the KRS Act immune to all procedural possibilities, in particular the resignation of the first President of the Supreme Court between today's date and the date of entry into force of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question, Senator Sztark: will we make public the lists of judges supporting candidates to the national court council? Just as Minister Ziobro has declared several times, he would be willing to make public, would not have made any obstacles in this regard if the rules had allowed this possibility. Unfortunately, our interpretation of the provisions of the law which concern this issue precludes the possibility of making it public. Of course, this interpretation of us is not conclusive, because we are not even the holders of these documents, although we have this knowledge, because we had to determine, as part of the procedure, whether the persons who gave support during the procedure were judges of the general courts or not. Relevant information was given to the Marshal of the Sejm. Therefore, it is not a problem for us as the Ministry of Justice to make a letter of support public, provided that we act in accordance with the law. For now, the law, in our view, does not allow this possibility, and therefore we cannot make anything public beyond what we have made public. We've identified those documents that go online somewhere. There was a question on the way to access public information. As much as we could make available under this procedure, we made it available. But whether we're right or wrong, it's certainly too far from what the senator asked us to do, that there might be any doubt. whether or not we are dealing with judges members of the National Judicial Council because the lists of judges supporting them have not been made public. This is of no importance, in our opinion, for the legality of the election made by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Senator Pociej's question is that it used to be here immediately, and now it's 30 days, and whether or not it has anything to do with current politics. I mean, I have to figure out... I'm assuming I have a pretty good idea. Because the senator didn't want to know where the 30-day record was. I assume that this is the provision that concerns the date of convening the meeting of the National Judicial Council. Well, the answer to that question is the answer to Senator Czerwinski's question. Apparently, for years, the legislator did not foresee such a situation that the urgency would be interpreted so by the body appointed to convene the first meeting of the National Judicial Council, that it would pass a month, pass the next days and this meeting would not be convened and the Council would have to function. Therefore, I think that the proceedings of the First President of the Supreme Court were surprising to all Also for us, also for the Sejm However, this had to be clarified. This is completely different from what we discussed in the High House in the Senate half an hour ago. No one had foreseen that someone might evade the obligation arising directly from the provision of the Act on the pretext that the term "immediate' is not sufficiently precise. Turns out it could happen. Mr. Senator Czerwiński was willing to call this situation the obstruction of the first Supreme Court President. There's probably something going on. Does this have to do with current politics? Well, it seems so, but I don't think this is the place to make political evaluations. Senator Shark asked me to dismiss the presidents. I have a similar problem with this question as with question number one, but I will, of course, answer it. It has nothing to do with the subject of the submission to the High House, because we are not here dealing with the past and the dismissal of the presidents, which took place in a special manner during a period which was already concluded in February. Are the deadlines Not so precise was this question asked, which is foreseen in this submission, sufficient? In my view, they are sufficient, but the assessment of the senator or individual members of the High House may be completely different. I'll move on to Senator Czerwinski's questions. Well, I guess I've already answered that part. In part, they relate to a project that has already been discussed before the High Chamber. But answering the question directly about whether this submission, as well as the previous ones, is immune to all procedural issues, so that we, as citizens, public officials, do not have to face the situation that something has happened again that we did not anticipate... Of course, I can't say with 100% certainty that we haven't missed anything, but it seems to me that these laws, and the law amending the Supreme Court Act, and this law, which is the subject of today's sitting of the High House, are already tight and do not make any legislative procedures necessary in the future. The question was simply asked: what would happen if the first President of the Supreme Court had resigned before the meeting, which is scheduled for April 27th? According to Art. The 17th law of such a sitting shall be presided over by the oldest Judge or Judge at rest, so the resignation of the first President of the Supreme Court shall not change anything, since all organisational activities shall be carried out by the oldest Judge or Judge at rest at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator. Senator. Senator. Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u184	Minister, I am not concerned with those already cancelled presidents and vice-presidents of the court, because at present, in this amended law about the system of common courts and in the law on the National Courts, it clearly states that... the law on the system of common courts enabling the President or Vice-President of the court to be dismissed. Under the amended Article. The 27th Justice Minister will first be required to consult the College of the competent court. Then we're talking about the KRS. And we are talking about this negative opinion of the Council, which is to be binding on the Minister only if it is taken by a qualified majority of 2/3 votes. I am talking about §5a, which assumes that not giving an opinion at that time will be tantamount to granting the Minister of Justice the power to dismiss the President or the Vice-President of the Court. And that's why I'm asking if the deadline set in the new regulation is sufficient. It's not about the past. It's about the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u185	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u186	Sure, now I understand the senator's question. This 30-day term just prevents e.g. possible obstructive situations. And this is a term that quite often appears in the legislation on the judiciary, also in the ordinary judiciary, which is also the term we had in this law. It is sufficient because the National Judicial Council is functioning, at least until now, and this is likely to happen in the future, on the basis of plenary meetings, which are convened at least once a month. Therefore, the National Judicial Council will have the opportunity to express its assessment as to whether the Minister of Justice should be able to dismiss the President or Vice-President of the Court or not to allow and oppose such an intention. There is also the expiry of a certain period of time after which the failure of the authority, in this case the National Judicial Council, is considered to be an expression of will in a specific manner. We had a 30-day deadline when it was about assesors, entrusting them with a motion of judgment, now it's a two-month deadline. But if the deadline expires, and the National Council does not express its position at that time, then it is presumed that the decision is such rather than different. In the case of assesors, this is a lack of objection, i.e. the alleged granting of a judicial vote, and here is the alleged consent to the appeal of the President of the Court. It also has this value. This has worked in the existing legislation, so we are not proposing anything new here. If the Council does not see any contraindications for the President of the Court to be dismissed, it does not need to formally express his opinion. They simply acknowledge that there is such a proposal, that there must be no resolution, that everyone is well aware of what will happen if within 30 days no resolution is taken to oppose the appeal of the President of the Court by a corresponding 2/3 majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Grażyna Anna Sztark. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u188	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I file any amendments 'Cause basically I'd like to make 10 amendments... [[Yes, will there be adjustments? I'll write it down.]] Yes. [[10?]] ...10 amendments, including a proposal to reject the law in its entirety in the event of non-adoption of amendments, I would like to say about this obstruction. Oh, there's no Senator Czerwinski, but he'll be here any minute. I would like to say that the fact that it is persistently refused to present a list of candidates for the members of the National Judicial Council judges is also, as I understand it, an obstruction, because no one can tell me that this is an action or an entry made solely and exclusively by Members. Before I begin to submit amendments, I would like to quote the words of Professor Matczak, who said: "Most of the candidates for the new KRS, representing the judiciary, are related to the executive authority. Six are judges working until recently at the Ministry of Justice, depending on the minister. Now they will protect the independence of other judges and decide their vocations and promotions. The next three are recently appointed by Minister Ziobra, the Presidents of the Courts. The submission of these candidates shall be accompanied by a narrative that each Judge shall represent the Judges. It doesn't matter who chooses them, whether they depend on the person who chooses them or not. Such a way of selecting the KRS is the next stage of the authoritarian phenomenon known to the institutions of the state of law. When they are deprived of their testicles, such as independence, they become useful for power tricks. And now I would like to make amendments on behalf of myself and the senators of Zientarski and Flork. First: in the title of the Act, the general definition of the subject-matter of the Act is replaced by the following: "The Law on the Law on the General Court and the Law on the Supreme Court'. These amendments have already been tabled before, during the work of the committee by the legislators, and therefore I don't think there will be any problems. Two: Article. 1 in point 1 in: (a) point (a) a, in § 5 in the first sentence, (b) point (b) b, in paragraph 5a, in the first sentence, the word "its' shall be deleted. Third: Article 1 in point 1 in point (a) b, in § 5a in the third sentence, the words "thirty days' shall be replaced by the words "two months'. It'll be a safer clause. Fourth: Article Points 2 and 3 are deleted. Fifth: in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 4 in point (a) (b) in the first sentence, the words "or an important social interest' shall be deleted. We talked about the fact that it's enough if it's a legal interest, not a generally understood social interest. Sixth: in Art. 1. the following point 4a is inserted: 100: (a) §1 is replaced by the following: A judge who has been retiring shall, in the event of a change in the system of courts or a change in the boundaries of judicial districts, be entitled until he reaches the age of 65 to pay the amount of the remuneration charged to the recently occupied position, it seems to me that there is a legal gap in the case of (b) §4a and 4b shall be replaced by the following: (§4a). In the case referred to in paragraph 1, the retired judge shall receive a one-off briefing as soon as the age of 65 is reached. §4b. A Judge who has returned to his previous post or a position equivalent to that previously held under Article. 74 §1a, in the event of a transition or a transfer to retirement, a one-off check shall be payable in the amount which is the difference between the amount of the check calculated on the day of the transfer or transfer to retirement and the amount of the check paid. In the case referred to in paragraph 1, the check shall be entitled as soon as the age of 65 is reached. Seventh: Article 1 the following point 4b is inserted: 105 in §2 in the first sentence, the words "in accordance with Article." 69 §1, 1b and 2, shall be replaced by the words "in accordance with Article." 69 § 1, 1b, 2 and 2b. Eight: Article 4 is deleted. Article 2 and Article 2 4. 9th: in Art. 2 in point 2 in point (a) b: (a) in paragraph 2. 4 The words "or the judge at rest'shall be deleted, (b) in paragraph 2. 5 The words 'or judges at rest' shall be deleted. And, as I said, if the High Senate does not accept these amendments, I ask you to reject the bill in its entirety. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u189	Thank you very much. These signatures are Senator Flork's... [[Yeah, yeah. It says up there.]] Oh, okay, good. Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Pociej, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u190	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First two sentences to Senator Ambrozik. I would like to congratulate the senator on such a report, to which no one had doubts, no one had any questions, which is difficult in the case of such a hot topic. [[Perfect report.]] If the report is perfect, then the bill is less. I will return to this suggestion of Senator Czerwinski of alleged obstruction. It was a completely untrue observation. We've been talking here, in the room about these doubts, about the question of how to select candidates. The first President of the Supreme Court had the right not only but also the obligation to request a letter of support, verification and therefore allowed for a longer period until the first meeting of the National Courts was convened. However, in her sense of responsibility for the justice system, she called this meeting because she finally got the answer that no one would give it to her. At that time, she immediately convened the meeting. How different her attitude is with regard to the immediate acceptance of the oath by the President or the immediate publication of judgments. This attitude seems to be a responsible and very mature attitude. My colleagues have said this before, Senator Shark has discussed this bill quite thoroughly as well. She is part of a series of actions that block the justice system, in our opinion, with unconstitutional records. Each of these laws is another step towards subjugating justice. And that's what we're all going to see sooner or later, a very dangerous phenomenon that shouldn't be applied to. I will therefore, of course, also vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u191	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I did not ask questions to the Minister, as if expecting in advance that these would be typical answers that we had the opportunity to hear during the committee meeting from another Deputy Minister. At the committee meeting, the Deputy Minister, as I will remind you, actually distanced himself in the sense that he answered individual questions: we as a government, as a ministry, are not the authors of this project. Of course... [[That's the truth.]] Of course, yes, it's true. It's true, except the applicants weren't there. [[They didn't have to be there.]] Then the question is: to whom do you ask questions in order to explain the motives? [[But where?]] At the committee meeting. [[Uh-huh.]] At the committee meeting. That's one thing. The issue, I think, is important, because we should know the motivation, or at least the members of the committee should have the opportunity to know it. Well, Senator Mammoths... But he's coming here... [[Oh, no, he's coming to me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, yeah. ...he mentioned it was true. Yeah, it's true, except such serious, systemic laws require a special mode. After all, they require first reading, which in the case of all these laws was not respected, reading in the whole Sejm, not just the committee. This was not the case in all three cases. This is a very serious charge. But that's what's involved in the preparation, because if the ministry does... It has a duty to consult constitutionalists, at least one, and here we have nothing, we have no opinion. Excuse me, we have an opinion from our Legislative Office, which clearly responds to these proposals, so let's call it. I would like to remind you, briefly, of the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court on this submission. According to it, most of these proposals are illusory, they do not eliminate the fundamental constitutional objections expressed in relation to the solutions adopted in the Universal Courts Act, in those earlier submissions. These proposals are not being implemented to any extent I stress, to no extent, the European Commission's recommendation on the rule of law in Poland supplementing the previous Commission recommendations, here are the relevant numbers, the so-called third recommendation... These three recommendations are not being followed in any way. I ask how, in that case, the justification for the submission, which says that this submission is to meet, make amends or realizes, at least in some part of... He doesn't do it in any part of it. And now, so briefly, about the issue of appointing and dismissing judges. There are rules that prevent even this National Judicial Council, which has been shaped so that it is actually dependent on the Minister of Justice. I'm not going to develop this thread anymore because everyone knows what it's all about... Even this National Judicial Council will de facto not be able to comment, because the deadline is too short, because there must be a team, etc., and there are 30 days for that. That's where it's clear, yes. It's still about calling the judges. It must be stressed that this issue of appointment infringes the principle of the division of power and independence of the courts. The amendments proposed in the draft opinion are not implementing, I say, the recommendations of the European Commission. The third Recommendation on the rule of law in Poland recommended that the Republic of Poland eliminate the decision-making freedom of the Minister of Justice with regard to the appointment and dismissal of the Presidents of the courts, and And here's the conjunction. A change in the decisions already taken. Well, that's what the recommendation says. However, the situation is that there are over 130 presidents and vice-presidents appointed and they remain. I'm not gonna comment on that. She's moving in illusory, even in the future, because maybe you're left with the wrong recommendations... The recommendations referred to effective, I stress this word, the influence of the judges' environments on the ability to appoint and dismiss, effective. And there's no efficacy here. The opinion is non-binding, and the National Judicial Council has such a deadline that it is actually difficult to make it. The question of whether a judge who is 65 years of age will be allowed to take office. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the further dependence of the judge on the executive authority, and it was supposed to be a step the other way. Well, I'm sorry, but on the basis of unclear criteria... And here there is no doubt that, like the counter-assignment for the performer, where Prime Minister Szydło signed with you the President... The same thing's gonna happen here. This is not a presidential prerogative, and it must therefore be an agreement to an extension, i.e. a countersignation of the Prime Minister, a further dependence on the executive authority of the judge who is to have this extension. It is said here that the rights of the judge who acquired these rights must not be deprived at the time of the President's initial nomination. After all, he was nominated to work in the Supreme Court until the 1960s... I understand that such rules can be introduced for the future, but they must not concern the recommendations clearly. The judges currently adjudicating in the Supreme Court. And here's the problem, ladies and gentlemen, very serious because it's constitutional. So that for these reasons... I am no longer talking about the fact that in the recommendation, in this supporting document (EU) 2016/1374, (EU) 2017/146 and (EU) 2017/1520, it was recommended that the Supreme Court Act should be amended so as not to apply the reduced retirement age to the current Supreme Court Judges, the President of the Republic of Poland's decision to extend the active mandate of Supreme Court Judges, as I have just said, and the emergency action procedure has been removed. I ask where we are dealing with such explicit recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, without comment, I leave the fact that these recommendations are being treated. For these reasons, of course, we are strongly in favour of the proposal made here to reject this harmful law, which does not go towards improving the situation, strengthening the position that has been seriously undermined by the previous laws... She goes in the same direction as those previous laws, that is to say, further deepening the state of violation of the three divisions of power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u193	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka and Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Piotr Zientarski and Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals that have been put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Now the ads, and I'm about to announce a break. Thank you very much, Minister. I'll announce a recess in a moment until 5:00.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u194	Messages. The sixty-eightth meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee will be held today in room 179 immediately after the adjournment is announced. The selection of the second Deputy Chairperson shall be on the agenda. Message two. A joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law. Provisions introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. Message three. Meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the 50th meeting of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the Supreme Court, Senate printing No 783, and to the Act amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the National Council of Courts and the Act on the Supreme Court, the Senate printing No 784, will take place immediately after a joint meeting with the Legislative Commission. Message four. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the 50th meeting of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and certain other laws, Senate printing No 791, will take place today 10 minutes after the announcement of the interruption in the sitting in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u195	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 5:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 01 to 16 minutes 54]] I'm extending the break until 5:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 54 to 17 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dear Senators, please stop talking. Let me inform you that another... [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] ...the Senate meeting will be held on 9, 10, 11 May 2018. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. I shall also inform you that according to the article. 129 of the Act of 16 November 2016 on National Tax Administration, the head of the National Tax Administration, sent information about activities for the period from 1 March 2017 to 31 December 2017. I sent this document to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. In view of the inclusion of the information, it will not be used to produce a senate print, the information will be made available... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Quiet!]] ...the information will be made available to the senators in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, with the possibility to read it by 8 May 2018. A meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on this matter will be convened after that date. It is initially scheduled for 10 May 2018. I would like to inform you that the committee will take note of this information at its secret meeting in accordance with the requirements necessary for the examination of documents marked with a "reserved' clause. I would like to remind you that all senators, including non-member senators, may attend the committee's meeting. I would like to remind you that this meeting is scheduled for 10 May 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 780. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee, to submit a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! I have the honour to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of Senate committees. §1 of the proposal: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Michał Potniczy from the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. §2: The Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, he elects Senator Michał Potniczy to the National Defence Commission. §3: The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u197	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I can't see, I can't hear. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Print No 780. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 Senators voted, 75 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of the Senate Print No 763 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 762 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. And I would ask for your consent to vote jointly on amendments to the Act amending the Act on Payment Services and certain other Acts Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38 and 39. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted this proposal. Then please, who's in favour of these amendments? Who's against these amendments? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] I would like to inform you that the amendments have been adopted shortly before. Amendment 9 aims to ensure that the Financial Supervision Commission exercises supervision, not merely control, of compliance with the rules on handling complaints. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 19 takes into account that an insurance guarantee may also be a means of securing your claims. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendments 24, 25 and 27 adapt the amendment to the provisions of the Act "Entrepreneur's Law." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 28 provides that the Financial Supervision Commission will be required to inform the applicant when the case to be interpreted is deemed to be particularly complex. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 37 clarifies the requirements for communication and authentication standards as a transitional provision and sets out precisely the date when payment service providers will be required to comply with those requirements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 765 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 deletes an unnecessary word which, contrary to the intentions of the designers, may restrict the definition of carriage of goods. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 2 harmonises the provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 3 properly sets out the relationship between the substantive provisions and the provisions authorising the law and thus makes it clear that the exclusion of the obligation to register or the introduction of new information obligations in the register will require the issuing of the relevant implementing provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 4 assumes that the driver will not be liable for the offence if he starts the carriage of goods by rail without a reference number or a document confirming the intra-stock transfer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 5 corrects and harmonises the provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendments 6 and 15 should be voted on together. They provide that in the absence of a notification to the register not disclosed during a road inspection and in the course of tax proceedings, no penalty will be imposed only if there is no reduction in both VAT and excise duty, and not only if there is no reduction in one of these taxes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendments 7 and 17 should be voted on together. They align the title of the separation of pharmaceutical law with the substantive provision of that law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 8 takes into account the new wording of the provision introduced with the entry into force of the business constitution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 9 clarifies that there will not only be a legal action by law to dispose of medicinal products without notification to the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector but also before the expiry of the time limit for objecting to action by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector or despite such opposition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 10 assumes that the amount of the fee for the protection and storage of medicinal products, as determined by the chief pharmaceutical inspector, should correspond to the market rates taking into account the maximum rate of the levy resulting directly from the Act, modified by the inflation rate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 11 narrows the reference by prejudicing that medicinal products can be sold under enforcement rules on movable property subject to rapid deterioration and not under the provisions on valuables. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 12, as a consequence, amends the provisions of the excise duty law to include the rail transport monitoring system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 13 takes into account the new wording of the provisions introduced by the Law on State Protection. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to stop talking to me, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. 'Cause it really bothers me. I can read very slowly and you will vote for 2 hours. Please don't make fun of me. Amendment 14 deletes the provision that repeats the standard already expressed in Article. Twelve bills. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 16 adds a transitional provision confirming the principle of the application of a more proportionate law to all new administrative sanctions for infringement of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 17 was voted on, including Amendment 7. We are now voting on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Law of the Code of Offences. The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments. Senator's Printing No 767 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the Code of Offences. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 769 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has decided to adopt the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you still want to speak? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 23 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed the adoption of a law without amendments. Senator's Printing No 771 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 25 against. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act. Senator's Printing No 770 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to eliminate inaccuracies in the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 2 seeks to supplement the provision on the missing consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendments 3, 4 and 7 should be voted on together. They aim to indicate that the provisions concerning the arrangements between the President of the Office for Electronic Communications and the Minister for Electronic Communications. energy for frequency reservation to reduce response time in the event of a distribution network failure and better coordination of corrective work will enter into force on the date of publication of the law. At the same time, the amendments prejudice that the President of the Office for Electronic Communications in agreement with the Minister for Electronic Communications. energy will book these frequencies within 60 days of the date of publication of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 5 aims to align the wording of the transitional provision with the telecoms law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 6 seeks to formulate a provision temporarily maintained by the Regulation in accordance with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to give me the result. 78 senators voted, 58 for, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Collective Transport Act. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 768 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. This amendment aims to clarify the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 29 for, 50 against. [[Voting No 39]] I'm asking for this bill to be adopted without amendment. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 Senators voted 77 and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Collective Transport. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise (Polish State Railways) and the Law on Rail Transport. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 764 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. The amendment clarifies the provisions constituting the legal basis for the free transfer by railway companies of historical vehicles and materials or equipment obtained from the renovation, renewal, modernisation or decommissioning of railway infrastructure, indicating directly the donor of such property and taking into account that the substance of the donation agreement is its freeness. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted against, 25 against, 53 against. [[Voting No 41]] In that case, I am asking for a resolution on the adoption of the law without amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 74 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise of Poland State Railways and the Act on Rail Transport. We are back to discussing item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 766 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. The amendment harmonises the terminology used by the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 25 against, 54 against. [[Voting No 43]] I'm asking for this bill to be adopted without amendment. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 72 for, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has passed a resolution... [[Voices from the room: 5! Five!]] Five stopped. Yeah, 77, 72, 0, 5. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the law on road traffic. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We therefore proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No 623 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the law on road traffic and the draft resolution on bringing this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the law on road traffic and has adopted a resolution on bringing this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Juvenile Procedure Act. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print No 602 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Rafał Ambrozik to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law submitted by the committees on the amendment of the Juvenile Procedure Act and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on proceedings in the case of minors and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Rafał Ambrozik to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is in print No 782 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present the report of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, contained in print No 782 Z. The committees at their meeting on 16 April, i.e. today, discussed the proposals made during the debate held on 13 and 16 April this year, on the Law amending the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Commission shall present to the High Senate the following position: The High Senate shall accept the proposal contained in point II, i.e. the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. I would like to inform you that there has also been a request from a minority, which is in point I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u201	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief. I strongly support And I appeal to the High House for the same request from the minority of the committee to reject this law. First of all, she is completely pointless, unwarranted in terms of purpose. That's the first line. Secondly, this bill, so to speak, offends the article. 190 of the Constitution, because it undermines the principle of finality of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and the principle of unconditional obligation to publish judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u203	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the Senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, still want to speak? [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed to the vote on the motion of the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, and the minority of the joint committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 50 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 25 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 48]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We are returning to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 783 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has decided to adopt the law without amendment. The minority proposal will present a minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present proposals supported by a minority of joint committees. [[Voice from the room: By a minority of committees.]] By a minority of joint committees. [[Voice from the room: Connected?]] By a minority of joint committees. Most have already been, now a minority. [[It was the first committee, and that's why it wasn't connected, it was just... the last point was the joint committee, and this is the first committee.]] I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Yeah, I've written a combination, but I'm deleting the word "united."
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is one of the laws that closes the taking over of justice by 1 option, by 1 political environment. This bill was literally crushed in the opinion of our Legislative Bureau. I'm gonna mention the violation of the article on more important charges. 10, 173 and 175 constitutions. Not without significance, especially in the current situation, when we often talk about costs, it is that it generates huge costs for the Treasury. There is no doubt that a very large number of judges will go to rest as a result of its adoption, which will, of course, generate additional costs. Finally, in the article. 2 concerning the convening of meetings of the National Judicial Council, this law is breaking open doors. By the way, I would just like to remind you or to say that... because there have been many words here about the alleged obstruction by the president, the first president of the Supreme Court. No. Just the last few days proved that she was simply checking, verifying what she was required to verify, i.e. the reliability of the submission of candidates, and then, when this road failed, but ended, she immediately convened the National Court Council. And I would wish all those who have a statutory obligation to publish or take vows immediately to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Piotr Florek, Grażyna Sztark, Barbara Zdrojewska and Senator Piotr Zientarski presented their conclusions during the discussion. Yes? You're welcome. [[I support the minority proposal.]] Again, Mr. Marshal. If you press the button...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u208	I support the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u209	Oh, that's good. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u210	I support this proposal, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u211	Anyone else want to speak? Thank you very much... [[Voice from the room: We are all in favour.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u212	I'm in favour, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u213	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Piotr Flork and Senator Grażyna Sztark to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted against, 24 for, 54 against. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 52 votes against, 24 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the law amending the law on the system of common courts, the law on the National Council of Courts and the law on the Supreme Court. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 784 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u214	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the committee, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that most of the comments I made in relation to the previous law are also valid in relation to this law. This is not a law that improves the state of justice. She's confusing him even more. I'm gonna say it again. It transfers many powers of judicial authority to politicians. This bill and its fate are the best proof of how wrong we are, how much the majority of the Senate are wrong, by proceding in the way in which they proceed, such important laws. Well, I would like to tell all my colleagues who were not involved in this process that this law, which we are updating, was adopted in December, entered into force two weeks ago. Actually, it didn't work, and we're already correcting it. What does that tell you? Of course, there is also a rush, and the rejection at this December session of all the amendments, especially the Legislative Office. And what does it turn out to be? Well, in this law we find 3 amendments made to the Legislative Office, which in December the Minister described as harmful, null and void, and unchanged. It really does not give us the comfort that we in this term of office are considering in a factual way what we are changing. This bill will force us to change the rules of procedure within a few months about how to vote. Because this time the legislator... I mean, fellow Members, because I'm going to try to take for a moment for a good coin, that it was the Members who wrote it and that they're efficient... It turns out that they are not thinking very much about what we are adopting here, and for the third time it is forcing us to change our vote. Clandestine ♪ Out of the It's classified. Does anyone in this Chamber want to tell me that, therefore, we are changing our regulations because of the Senate or what the Members are sending us? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall:...Newgrodzka.]] This law is largely designed simply to shorten the constitutionally guaranteed term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court. This is a clear violation of the constitution. This law is also in this sense a very bad legislative signal for the future, that it introduces a completely unknown legal system, the construction of justice, a person acting as the first President of the Supreme Court. The first President of the Supreme Court is guaranteed very serious constitutional obligations and is not indifferent to how this person will be elected. What's more, this bill gives And that's a remark similar to what I made on the occasion of the previous law, 40%. raises for one small part... well, not so small, because there will be dozens of people... the Supreme Court, the new Disciplinary Chamber. These people are going to make money in a cursory way, counting over 20,000 zlotys a month. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Nice.]] Is this the direction we've been talking about in the last week? Is this a cheaper country? It's hard to say it's going in that direction. For all these reasons, I would very much ask the High House to reject this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u217	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senators Bogdan Borusewicz, Piotr Zientarski, Piotr Florek, Grażyna Sztark submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No? Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion of Senators Bogdan Borusewicz, Piotr Flork, Grażyna Sztark and Piotr Ziientarski to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted against, 24 against, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 51 votes against, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the system of common courts, the law on the National Council of Courts and the law on the Supreme Court. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 791 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the 2nd Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development The report of today's meeting on the amendments tabled. During the meeting, we decided to adopt a law without amendments. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn withdrew the first amendment from the point II. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So that we vote on the bill without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u219	Thank you very much. Do Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and the other Senators of the rapporteur want to speak again? [[No, thank you.]] Senator Bogusława Orzechowska? No? And you're not a senator, either? I remind you that Senator Mieczysław Augustyn withdrew his application, point II, item 1 in print No 791 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. First of all, we will vote on the proposal to adopt a law without amendments. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy supported by the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 72 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. I would like to inform you that the order of the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible at the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Yes? [[Grażyna Shark.]] Senator Grażyna Shark. Later, Jerzy Wcisła, Jan Filip Libicki and Senator Infantry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two statements. The first is a statement made by a group of Senators of the Civic Platform at the 50th Senate meeting on 16 April 2018, addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. In connection with the publication in the press of disturbing information about the granting by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of grants to the Association of Economics, Science, Society Please also provide the following information. First, what was the sum of funds allocated by the Ministry between NGOs from 1 January 2016 to 9 April 2018? Secondly, what non-governmental organisations and to what extent have the allocated funds been allocated? Thirdly, how has the beneficiaries of the scheme been selected? Fourthly, what are the tasks to be carried out by each of the beneficiaries of this scheme? Fifthly, who will carry out the evaluation of the tasks carried out? Please consider this statement urgent. And here are the signatures. And now the second statement... You're not a marshal, and it's basically addressed to your marshal, with a huge request... This is true of the senators who had previously made a request to Mr. Marshal Kuchciński. This is basically a request, but I will read it publicly because I hope some of the Senators of Law and Justice will support us as well. This is a statement addressed to your marshal as a co-host of the Polish Parliament. The point is that, just as it happened on April 10th this year. in Piłsudski Square, when the monument was unveiled, also here, in the area and in the buildings of the Sejm and the Senate, all the victims of the plane crash near Smolensk were treated equally in the face of the majesty of death. In favour of commemorating the victims of this tragedy in Parliament in various forms, we appeal to you that none of these forms differentiate the dead because of political affiliation, social role or position. The point is, Mr. Marshal refused to put the board on us. Sebastian Karpinuk, a messenger from our territory; a plaque that would be placed in the green area of the Seym, where also the victims who died and which were of the Law and Justice are placed. I therefore attach a copy of our first speech. I hope that our request in this difficult, but also a sad case will be taken very seriously and we will be given permission. Thank you very much. You're welcome. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Wczyła. You're welcome. The senator will speak, right? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I am making 2 statements to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark Grybarczyk. Dear Minister, The seaport in Elbląg in the propaganda of Law and Justice is to be the fourth port of the Republic of Poland. I am, of course, pleased with these statements, but unfortunately, the words are not followed by actions... Because even if the announced construction of the channel by the Landing takes place, the channel itself will not increase port capacity, and the PiS government withdrew from the declaration of the previous government of PO-PSL destination for the necessary expansion of the port amount of PLN 150 million. Worse still, there is currently no money to maintain the current water tracks. As a result, I think it's the first time after winter breaks. The tracks were not deepened, which practically stopped the transhipments in the port. No longer loaded shoulders can leave the port and the shoulders loaded in Kaliningrad cannot reach the port. Probably the Maritime Authority in Gdynia does not have the money to carry out this task, so in a few months' time the port in Elbląg, instead of receiving the laurels of the fourth port of the Republic, will become bankrupt. I ask the Minister to investigate this problem and to bring the water tracks to the Vistula River at a rapid pace. And another statement. Dear Minister, The water law adopted in July 2017 gave the Polish government a huge margin of manoeuvre in determining the various charges and taxes. During the process of this law, I protested against giving the government the power to raise fees by up to 1000%. without parliamentary control. In my view, this law is ridiculous to the legislator. I remember that the Deputy Minister of the Environment at the time had said, for example, that the lowest rates would be applied in the area of charges affecting the development of water tourism for 2 years. The record of such assurances exists in transcripts from the work of the Sejm and the Senate. As far as I know, similar assurances were made by the government in meetings with the tourism industry. I was not persuaded by these declarations of goodwill I voted against such a law. And it turns out that unfortunately I was right. Poles were simply deceived by the Polish government. Fees related to the operation of the tourism sector, above all so-called. bottom tax, have not been set at the lowest level, as provided by a representative of the Polish Government, and are about 500% higher. The impact of this decision will be tragic for the tourism sector. Many entities simply cannot withstand such financial restrictions, and those who can cope with this effort will have to reduce the resources for development, maintenance of the base, as well as the safety of shipping. As a result, tourism will move back from marin to shuvars, which did not leave so long ago. By the way, a large part of society will find that the Polish government does not keep its word if it can only train money out of the pockets of Poles. Minister, I know that the Ministry of the Environment was responsible for the process of creating water law, and today this law is implemented by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. But Poland can't be divided in the department. Promises made to Poles by the Ministry of the Environment are an obligation of the Polish government, i.e. also the Ministry of Maritime Economy and Mediterranean Shipping. Please keep your word. Please keep the word that the Polish Government has given to Members, Senators, as well as to the water tourism industry. Please reduce the charges to the rates declared during the creation of water law. I'm also asking you to tell me if, and if so, at what time and mode the Ministry will take care of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u223	Thank you. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement will be brief. I direct them to Mrs. Elizabeth Rafalska, Minister of Family and Social Policy. I was approached by a citizen, a resident, a ward of a social services house located in Poland, but not in my constituency. The situation he has put forward would indicate that the staff working there is not adequately qualified to carry out their duties. I would therefore like to ask two questions. First: how are the qualifications of the staff working at the social services centre determined? What courses and training does he need to take? What qualifications, depending on the different functions they perform in this house, should such persons obtain? And the second question is: what is the process of evaluating such persons and their qualifications? How often are these qualifications checked? What's their control system look like? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u225	Thank you. Senator Leszek Infantry. There you go. [[He's not here.]] He's not here. [[Voice from the room: But there is Senator Silence.]] Senator Zbigniew Silence. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u226	Thank you very much. Just as in the Bible I volunteered first, and I am the last. But it could be. The important thing is that I was allowed to speak. Mrs. Marshal, I am making a statement to the Minister of Infrastructure. In connection with the construction of the A4 motorway, which runs through Tarnów, I was approached by a representative of local government officials, namely the President of Tarnów, who referred to the position of these local authorities and in their own name made a request not to charge tolls for the motorway on the section that runs through the city. As an argument, it was stated that passing through the city for communication purposes, between the districts of Tarnowa, is necessary, and if it takes place through the highway, it will be faster and more convenient. On the other hand, if the toll is set, there will be a risk that many people, in order to avoid this charge, will move around the outskirts of Tarnów or through the centre of Tarnów itself, which will cause huge congestion of the city and problems, as you know, associated with smog and other negative phenomena. Therefore, I make a request, considering it to be right to give up these charges. This is one statement. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Development, because this subject is probably his responsibility at the moment, although I'm not 100%. I'm sure. This is about the issue of factory housing. In fact, there are many interventions and requests for legislative action from people who have acquired factory housing in the old days, but who have not acquired rights to these apartments and have been, as they call it, sold to owners, new buyers. Very often these actions ended later so-called. Cleaning the tenements. Indeed, the problem is resounding. I remember that during the 2005-2007 term, when I was not yet a senator, this problem had already occurred. I was even asked by one of the Parliament committees to give a legal opinion on how to regulate this so that this would be in line with the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights. At the request of Minister Wassermann, I issued such a written opinion. It's been years, as we know, close to 13 and, unfortunately, nothing's going on. These people seem to have legitimate expectations that the case will finally be settled and that they, who have actually done their own work to build these apartments, will become their owners. Therefore, I believe that this problem should be dealt with and finally resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u227	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u228	Senator Silence, so you won't be sad, I'm the last one to vote, but I don't know who I'm gonna be... Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm directing a statement signed by me, but most of all, by the other 20 senators... This statement is addressed to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, and is of the following content. Dear President, As you know, the issue of awards granted to members of the government and ministers at the President's Chancellery raises a lively public debate. There are various allegations, decisions are made hotly by the various governing bodies of the state, and the debate is dominated by the accents concerning the amount of prizes and their frequency. According to the authors of this declaration, it is necessary to examine the legal basis and decision-making mechanism in the above mentioned law firms. In the course of the debate on around budget laws last year, the Minister of Finance made a clear statement on the continued freezing of salaries in the budgetary sphere and the so-called. an era involving ministers, Members, Senators, presidents of major public institutions, their spokespersons. However, an analysis of the information provided by the government shows that, however, an actual increase was made by granting monthly prizes of a similar amount throughout the year. The actual increase is around 10%. Individual ministers, including the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, give contradictory justifications and identify different decision makers. This is a circumvention of the rule of law. All of this together creates legal confusion around prizes. It is therefore justified to carry out an ad hoc review by the Supreme Audit Chamber and to provide the public with full information. It is not a control of budget implementation, as it is mentioned in some circles. Therefore, I would stress once again that this is about carrying out an ad hoc review under Article. 9 NIK Act 1994. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-16-senat-59-3.u229	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. There are no messages. Good. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 50th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 50th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 21]]
