ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u1	Resume session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Your senators, please stop talking... Thank you, senators. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today's deliberations will begin with the examination of paragraph seven: the law on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of the employee files and their electronicisation. For the examination of the sixth paragraph: the Act amending the Law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws, we will proceed after a break in the session at 2 p.m. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. The text of the act is contained in print No 703, and the report of the committee In print No 703 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 10 January 2018 amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 17 January 2018, the committee requests that the attached draft resolution be adopted. The law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of storage of employee records and their electronicisation reduces the retention time of employee records from 50 to 10 years, i.e. documentation in matters relating to the employment relationship and the employee's personal file, and enables the employer to keep and store it electronically, and determines its equivalence with paper documentation. The change concerning the storage of documentation and the collection of data by the Social Insurance Institution includes not only employees but also contractors, i.e. persons performing work under an agency contract or contract or other contract for the provision of services to which the provisions on the order are applicable under the Civil Code and persons cooperating with them. The Contractor will therefore be obliged to store proof of work on the basis of a contract-order for 10 years. The modification of the legal status of these entities will facilitate the receipt of the information necessary to determine the right to and the amount of the pension, which will also constitute evidence in court proceedings in the event of disputes. These changes involve the fulfilment by employers of obligations under labour law and social security legislation. The shortening of the record-keeping period covers all employees employed after the entry into force of the Act, i.e. after 1 January 2019 For workers employed in the period after 31 December 1998 and before 1 January 2019, the principle will be to keep documentation in matters relating to the employment relationship and the employee's personal file for a period of 50 years from the date of termination or termination of the employment relationship, unless the employer declares his intention to provide information reports and reports for all employees and contractors employed during that period. In addition, the Act amends the applicable principle of payment of remuneration. Currently, the Labour Code provides for the payment of the employee's own account and another method of payment of remuneration is acceptable if this is the collective agreement or if the employee agrees in writing in advance. The justification for the project indicates that the non-cash payment will become the preferred and leading form. However, it will remain possible to withdraw cash at the request of the employee. So far, an employee who wanted to be paid in a non-cash form has applied for this. According to the new regulation, the employee who wishes to receive them in cash will make such a request in writing. This is also due to the fact that the proportion of cash-free payments to cash is around 80:20 at the moment. The project entered the Sejm on 7 November 2017 and constituted a government presentation. The Minister present at the committee meeting pointed out that in many European countries the period for storing this dossier is 10 years, although there are also countries where this period is even shorter, five years. The first reading took place at the 50th session of the Sejm. The project was then addressed to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. The second reading was held at the fifth session of the Sejm. The bill received the support of 438 Members, there were no votes against and 1 Member abstained. The Act does not raise any legislative comments and was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on 17 January 2018. The Senators taking part in the discussion were interested in whether the proposed regulation would not affect the deterioration of the situation of workers who often have difficulties in proving periods of contribution. This is linked to the perturbation of establishments which cease to exist and which have acted improperly with employee records. The Minister present at the meeting answered all these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u3	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u4	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr Senator, rapporteur! I understand that the facilitations are for entrepreneurs, various concerns for employees. And I understand it also so that this documentation will not disappear, because these duties will take over the ZUS in a more or less successful way. The question is, will the interests not only of the employees but also of the members of their families be secured? The period of storage, 50 years, is justified by the duration of the employee's vitality or professional activity, although we are already crossing that limit, and besides the longer life of the employee's family members, so this time as if it were extending. As for the children of this employee, who have become employees of his employer in the field of family benefits, I am talking about pensions. This period may even last more than 100 years. Is the right to family benefits arising from an insurance relationship secured?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u6	Mr. Senator, here the rules of storage are not changing, I would say, the existence of these employee acts is changing only the formula. We are moving on with progress and in very many institutions, in this case in the Social Insurance Institution, there is a far-reaching electronicisation. A solution shortening the necessary period for the retention of workers' files by employers gives very tangible financial benefits for employers. This electronization is a progressive and inexorable process. We should have no doubt in this regard. Of course, the question remains whether the systems in which these data are stored are properly secured, but, as the Minister said, the systems for the storage of employee files are at all about the entire IT system that operates the Social Insurance Institution are covered by the highest electronic security clause. Employers who, after a period of 10 years, intend to cease their activities, possibly change their formula, will be required to inform their employees in due course and to propose the transmission of these documents in paper form. They will also be required to provide the Social Insurance Institution with information reports which will contain all the necessary information to calculate benefits not only for the employees themselves but also, in accordance with the law, members of their immediate family. Practices in countries where there is a shorter period of record keeping, we can refer to this. It shows that such an approach to storing employee records, i.e. having them in electronic form and enabling employees to... As far as I remember correctly, employees after this first information from their employer that they can receive paper-based documentation and may have access to this documentation, will have 12 months to get interested in these activities. The Minister present at the meeting declared that this almost annual period between us and the entry into force of the law will also be devoted to promoting these new solutions. . indicate their strengths and the relevance of these solutions. In addition, after 1 January 2019 employers will be required to inform employees that the new regulations have entered into force and what is involved for these workers. I personally believe that such solutions, i.e. the combination of possibilities, of course after the termination of the employment relationship or for example. After the liquidation of the workplace... Solutions giving employees the opportunity to have documentation in paper form and in parallel ensuring that this documentation, I would say, will be included in the resources of the Social Insurance Institution and stored there safely, give the guarantee that this system on the one hand will be efficient and on the other hand will protect employees 'Cause that's what it's all about. Before having difficulty in obtaining the benefit of the amount due. Probably has an educational dimension, too, because right now the employees I think that's the average. At least three times in their lives, they change jobs, and when they are still young, they often forget to collect such information from their previous employer. Such a hypothetical requirement to be interested in your documentation over the last 10 years, as this may be the case, will result in employees being more systematically involved in matters related to the course of their work, with the amount of contributions paid, and will therefore be more actively involved in the process of drawing up and subsequent calculation of the benefits due.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u7	Are there any further questions? If not, thank you, sir. [[Me too.]] [[You're still...]] [[And Mr. Senator Czerwinski.]] You're still a senator, yes. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u8	You convinced me, of course, about the need for digitalization etc., etc., although there are doubts, because you were talking about this dual arrangement... threesome: employee, employer, ZUS. It seems, as it turns out from what I hear in your mouth, that this law protects these rights. Except there are insurances that run near the ZUS. I'm talking about occupational retirement plans and IKZE, especially the PPE, which I believe the US has no knowledge of. The question is: what if employers cease their activities? If there's business... I mean, of course, the information page, because the law is talking about other things. How will this be passed on to the employee? Is it so that the continuity of this insurance has been completed, has it been passed on, or something like that? Was this the subject of work and discussion at the committee meeting? If you had problems, because it is difficult for a group of PPE employees, but there is a very large action planned in this area, I would ask the Ministry...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u9	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u10	You raised an extremely important subject, but in order for me to answer that question, I would need to refresh my knowledge. The issues that Mr Senator wanted to talk about were not addressed during the committee's deliberations, and so, I think, you could address this question to the minister present here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u11	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u12	Mr Marshal, I am resigning from the question because the Senator rapporteur in the previous answer said what I wanted to ask, namely the savings for entrepreneurs, employers, and the security of documents, which he said very, very precisely. So that safety is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u13	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the question is: why are miners distinguished and their records to be kept for 50 years, regardless of the provisions concerning other professional groups? It's an art. 5. Does this result from certain privileges that this professional group has, or from any other facts?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u16	Senator, the issues concerning this professional group were not discussed during the committee's deliberations. I ask you to address this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u17	Are there any more questions? No questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Mariusz Halady, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. I'd like to see the Minister on the stand, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question which was previously asked, namely: why in art. 5 are the miners awarded? Does this result from any additional privileges that this professional group has, or from other reasons? The point is, they should have kept files for 50 years. That's the first question. The second is more, I'd say, basic. Namely paper, as it is well stored, it has practically unlimited duration, so it is also possible to access the data which are stored on this paper. And what's it like for carriers? I don't know how ZUS stores its information. Magnetic Or is it optical? Well, they have a certain durability period. Will they be refreshed in any way? I don't know if I'm making myself clear. The question is, how long is it, I'd call it paperless, because that's what we're talking about, data storage? And the third question, concerning the strict transitional provisions in this law. Namely art. In paragraph 7, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 2 says that the existing provisions apply to employment relationships that were established prior to the entry into force of the Act. Is it to be understood that if the employee is now employed somewhere and will not change his job for the next 20 years, perhaps he will? This will continue to apply to him for a 50-year period of document storage, and if the same employee changes his work one year after the entry into force of the Act, it will automatically mean that his documentation will only be kept for 10 years?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u19	Minister, there were three questions, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll just add two additional sentences to Senator Elephant's answer to Senator Rulewski's question, if you don't mind. I would say that now the rights of family members are much less secure than they will be in the future legal situation, because now, by performing e.g. For a family pension, they're forced to look for documentation from a deceased member of the family. From now on these data will be in the ZUS, they will no longer have to search for them in Poland and collect them, bring them to the ZUS. In addition, they will also have the right to receive this documentation, e.g. After that employee's death, they'll get information and they'll be able to pick up those employee files. As a result, the entitlement to a survivor's pension will, in my opinion, be better secured and guaranteed than today. Now, Senator Czerwinski's questions. As far as miners are concerned, together with the Department of Social Insurance and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, we have tried to cover all professional groups with this project, but the situation of miners as workers is very specific, i.e. they have been subject to several regimes over the years, so to speak, legal in terms of pension rights. To put it simply, we were simply not able to put it in a uniform way, as with other employees. This pension scheme for miners is so complex that it was difficult even in the information report or this harmonised form of ZUS RCA to include these data of miners so as to fully guarantee and maintain all their entitlement to pensions. So because we were simply not able to do it legally well, so as to secure for the zloty that, so to speak, the pension interest of the miners, we were forced to leave this system in the state today. The senator also asked about... [[The durability of carriers.]] Yeah, about the durability of the carriers. As for paper as paper, okay, we can say that he will actually last 50 years. It will last longer and longer, after all, we also have older documents that we collect, for example, in the archives of new files. But here is a different problem than the durability of the vehicle itself. The problem is that unfortunately the care of this documentation over a period of 50 years is, as experience now shows, small. Please note, already so purely subjectively looking at the situation: the employer after expiry of any limitation periods which are in a bilateral relationship between the employer and the employee, i.e. on compensation issues, issues of some late payments, etc... The longest limitation periods generally reach 10 years. In this next period, 10 years later and 50 years later, the employer as an employer has virtually no interest in this. It is already more the relationship of the state of the employee. And unfortunately, however much to judge this approach of employers, documentation often simply, as usual, dies in the world. Employee claims on pension or pension benefits Especially retirement, because this is where the time is usually longer. And the documentation's just... I'm sorry for the colloquialism, but you're looking for some wind in the field. Especially since today's economy Mr. Senator Elephant mentioned it here It is characterised by huge fluctuations. This is not only about the movement of workers between companies, but also about the very dynamics of changes in the business market itself: companies are created, eliminated, collapsed, taken over. And in all these, so to speak, economic transformations, capital transformations, etc., as experience shows, this documentation unfortunately dies. Yesterday I shared with the senators such a personal reflection that we, of course, as the Ministry of Development, now the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, came from the point of view of the employer: that this 50-year period is kind of disproportionate to the similar obligations existing in other European countries. And it is clear that the first beneficiary of this law is an employer. But the longer we worked on this project, the more I was convinced that at least as much as the beneficiary of this law was an employee. Because, in the new legal state, the employee, as well as the family member in the case of a survivor's pension, as asked by Senator Rulewski, no longer has to wonder after thirty, forty or 50 years: whether the employer I worked with X years ago still exists, whether he legally passed the documentation to the authorized keeper, whether this documentation has disappeared and consequently I will lose my additional entitlement to a higher pension, and in the worst case scenario I will simply get a minimum pension, at the minimum. So paradoxically, this 50-year period of record-keeping, although at first glance it seems that the employee is actually secured here, is often an illusory protection of the employee's rights, because this documentation either dies or is stored by unauthorised keepers. And yet, as for the durability of the paper carrier, yes, it is permanent, but if it is stored under appropriate conditions. If stored I'm sorry to say, but these are real examples. Somewhere in the henhouses or in the attic, this documentation can't last 50 years. Now it will be stored on electronic media in the state system, i.e. it takes over the obligation to store this data. Note that this is also not a new obligation for the ZUS, because in fact the ZUS stores our data in electronic form today. So as if it isn't an experiment for the ZUS, that these data will be stored in electronic form. The ZUS is now working on an IT system that will allow these data to be stored and secured, including the creation of some kind of backup, so that in the event of some breakdown of the basic system, these data will be secured in the backup system. We consulted with IT experts or from storing data on electronic media to exploit the best knowledge in this field, so to speak. These solutions and such conditions have also been introduced for employers, because not only the Social Security Office, but also employers after termination of employment will have to fulfil these obligations for 10 years. The ZUS, as I say, is currently working on a system that will allow the durability of these data on electronic media to be preserved. You also asked the senator about the situation of employees before the Act came into force. Here we have, like, three situations. The first situation concerns an employee who was employed by the employer before 1999. There's no way to shorten this period here. We are left with a 50-year period of data storage, an act, because until 1999, i.e. the reform of the social security system, data to the Social Security Office were passed on by employers as aggregate, they were not individualized. Therefore, today the Social Security Office would not be able to verify these data if they, for example, did. would be supplemented as in the case of the second period, which I am about to mention, i.e. by the employer now sent ex post. So this period... So if someone was employed by the employer before 1999 and still works with him, then his documentation will be strictly stored for 50 years. The second situation concerns employees who were employed by the employer after 1999, but before the entry into force of the Act, i.e. Assuming that in such a version the law would reach the Official Journal of the Laws by 2019. In this case, in principle, we leave the 50-year retention period of the file because the Social Security Office does not have certain data that are needed to determine the amount of the pension, and we cannot deprive employees of entitlement to benefits. In this case we have left an optional path for the employer, because these employees are already in the new pension system and the employer is able to transfer this data to the ZUS individually. Thus, for the period 1999 to the entry into force of the Act, the employer may submit the so-called. information reports for a given employee, in which he will complete data which he has not so far transmitted to the Social Security Office, and after the entry into force of the Act it is as if the data which are transmitted each month will arrive. If this information report is submitted by the employer for all employees, this period will be reduced. Of course, let us remember that the employee will have the right to receive this documentation, will have the right to verify it, etc. Mr. Senator asked about this kind of kazusu, about what in a situation, for example. I was hired, if I understood correctly, in 2004, in this sort of middle period, and then I will change jobs, and from 2020 I will work with another employer. Here the criterion really is not an employee... The criterion is not that when the employee started working at all. If an employee works with a new employer, the new employer does not look at the employee concerned when he started his professional career at all, only the employment relationship with the employer concerned counts. Thus, during this transitional period, if the employer had not decided to switch to a 10-year period, that documentation would have been kept for 50 years, and for 10 years with the employer who was employed after the entry into force of the law. We couldn't do it any other way, so we wouldn't repeal any rights or employees' rights. In addition, we considered that 20 years is such a long time that it would be difficult to force employers today to make such a large inventory, going back so many years, or to force them to reduce this period to 10 years, to determine It's like forcefully saying what's better for them. This is why it is left to choose an employer, and it must act uniformly towards all employees and must, of course, meet certain conditions. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Antoni Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u22	Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I would like to ask you what the savings are expected for employers for the implementation of this law. And another question about the information action. Are you expecting one? Admittedly, the Minister was just talking about it in detail. And I think it's very reassuring for people who know that. That this documentation will in principle be better secured than it is now, but it has to reach people, which means we need some information action. There is time for this action because the vacathio legis of this law is long. Do you foresee such actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u23	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u24	The savings we anticipate... Of course, there are some estimates. Well, we're predicting that all entrepreneurs "De facto economy" They will save about 130 million PLN a year. A year. I'm sorry, I repeat myself. If you want to show it on some sample cassava, then... We estimate that a company that employs 500 employees will save 200,000 PLN a year. I can say something that I mentioned yesterday at the committee meeting. Even our ministry rents space, so it means saving not only for private employers but also for public employers. As far as the information campaign is concerned, as the senator pointed out, the vacathio legis is prolonged. On the one hand, it gives the Social Insurance Institution the opportunity to properly prepare the IT system, which was also asked by Senator Czerwiński, in such a way as not to do it in a hurry. On the other hand, it is giving time to carry out a campaign, a campaign, I would say, not so much promotional, but information that would increase the legal awareness of both employers and employees. They also receive real authority, because they will be able to collect this documentation after the specified period, but also when, for example. will convert it from electronic form to paper or paper to electronic form. Then they'll be able to take that file away too. So that for us it is also very important that employees are aware of their rights, also to verify the data that will be transmitted to the Social Security Office on an ongoing basis. And together with the Social Insurance Institution and the Ministry of the Family, we will take this information action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u25	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u26	Minister, I'm sure you've been following the questions you've been asking... [[Ah, yet, I'm sorry... please, please.]] Did I say something wrong? [[No, no. Please, Mr. Senator.]] ...also my question to Senator Elephant, in which I expressed my concern about securing the information transmission in cases where the employer was a gestor of occupational pension schemes, but ended his business and there is a need... Well, it's continued, but this, as far as I know, is not covered by the information nomenclature of the ZUS, because it runs in another triangle. That's one thing. Secondly, how will the Social Security Office cope with work benefits that are paid to employees in kind? Will it be documented?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u27	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u28	I'll admit that the senator asked a question that didn't come up during the entire legislative process. My answer to the first question is that in this respect It's like there's no change. I mean, like Senator Elephant said, we don't turn the system upside down when it comes to data that affect the amount of retirement or pension. We're not changing anything in this area. If today I bring certain data, let's say, on paper, i.e. photocopier or originals from my personal files, then in the act we simply reflect it in the form of electronic data, so we do not make changes in data, information affecting the amount of pensions and pensions. I can also say that all data that affects the so-called. State pension sorry for some simplifications They'll be in the CSO, but I'll admit that I'd have to answer that question if the senator agreed, in writing. It's the same with benefits in nature. I mean, if they affect pension benefits today and the Social Security Office finds out about them, although I don't think... [[No.]] Exactly. Well, we're not changing the legal situation here either, which means here this situation just doesn't change. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u29	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u30	Minister, two questions. First. How high is the risk of data loss? How do you feel about that? There's no security that can't be crossed. Even military secrets have been coming out lately. Messages are deleted. To what extent are these data that will be collected in the Social Security Office? This is a fundamental matter. Contrary to appearances, we are talking here about an extremely serious issue, concerning all workers and all pensioners. And second question, a little bit related. I have information that a country like Germany, our neighbours, are still careful about computerizing everything, including when it comes to pension schemes. I'd like to know from the Minister how others do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u31	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u32	We already talked about this at the committee meeting. I'll start by saying it's always worth comparing, like I said yesterday, with the current state. And as I answered Senator Czerwinski's questions... The senator asked me directly if the data would be safe. I can answer this: the employee's interest after these changes will be better protected than in today's state. As for the risks relating to information systems in general as... [[Minister, that's what I'm talking about. Maybe I'll ask if we can understand each other. I'm not talking about individual risks, because I agree with the Minister here, I'm talking about systemic risks, and that's a completely different issue.]] I just don't know if this is a discussion just and exclusively... I mean. Surely this is not a discussion only and only on the occasion of this law. This is a problem or a general issue concerning information systems. And here's how I'm gonna answer it. See that we are not doing a revolution in this area when it comes to the functioning of the Social Security Office. In some sense we are doing a revolution on the part of the functioning of employers and, in my opinion, securing the interests of employees, while on the side of the Social Security Office we are not doing this revolution. After all, today ZUS collects our data on an e-account every month. We supplement this act as if the data that will be collected in our individual accounts, but kept in electronic form. And that is why ZUS is currently working on a system that will allow us to implement these regulations and secure data. However, I think that... I'm not a specialist when it comes to IT systems as such or, all the more so when it comes to cybersecurity, but I don't know if there is a person who would let his hands be cut off, that there are no such risks. They're performing. But let's see that we already have the Zusov system electronicized today, and this system is well perceived, except when I reach so quickly memory, I don't remember hearing about any data leaks from the ZUS or hacking into this system, or Sorry about the colloquialism. It's about the collapse of this system. And we will bring this system, which is proposed here in terms of the ZUS website and the computerization of the ZUS and the state, into a system already functioning. [[What about other countries?]] Oh, that's from the side again... Because I'm not, as far as the IT systems are concerned, the first specialist, of course I don't know what IT systems in other countries look like in general, but I do know that for example. As far as employee records are concerned, it is kept in Germany for 10 years and employers do not keep the documentation there any longer. [[But paper...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u33	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u34	I'm here again, Minister... But I would like to draw attention to this issue, especially since there is still a vacathio legis and time to check whether the laws are, I would say, sealed. Because the question is very simple: will the State take on any possible financial consequences in this case It's mostly about pensioners, let's put it directly. When it turns out that you didn't see to it and the citizen didn't have to see to it? Because we can't cede everything on him. Of course, he should represent his interests, but... I'll give you an example that is related to my activities from the time I was still a Member, in 2001 and 2005 and is about the famous action of the initial capital. A man came to me who worked in an oil company and made very good money. He could have shown it when he was working, but he couldn't show his pay. And then it was that for those periods he just didn't get the right... I mean. those periods as if they had not been taken into account in the amount of the pension. Because it was only then that a provision was introduced, according to which for those periods where we can prove that we were working, but we cannot show how much we made, the lowest wage that was in that period is taken into account. But it's generally the lowest wage, but it's not the lowest wage in the job. Anyway, this man just lost it. And you know what we've come up with? That he could prove how much money he made if he had it in his insurance card. Only that at that time there was a pattern of legitimacy which, imagine, did not take into account the amount of earnings during a certain period of time. And here it is: the state in the 1950s did not predict that one day there would be a reform of Buzek. And he was the one who was wearing... I mean. these are the consequences of such, and not of any other setting of these provisions in relation to initial capital. So, Minister, there's a question of reviewing this, a question of sustainability. 'Cause it's completely different... and it's about not losing it. Please note that these data will be aggregated in some way, we will not have source paper data, but they will be aggregated in some way. And the question is... actually, there's a request for you to go through it again, to see if all the issues, as in the case of the miners, have been cleared to the end. Because the point is not to let a man who was just put in a position like this come back to the senator's office again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u36	The first thing that comes to mind after Mr. Senator gave this example is that it was Mr. Senator who showed the dysfunctional and defectiveness of the current system. Because the fact that the same employee could not show the amount of the salary is one of the weaknesses of the current system. And that's exactly what this law is about, because the change is that also data on the amount of remuneration in a given period will be stored in the Social Security Office. So if we put in such situations that the employer apologizes for the word "swimming" somewhere documentation and now we're just not able to find it anymore... It is simply now that the employee will not have to look for this documentation to prove that in ABC SA he was earning so much and so much in such a period, because these data will be individualized in the ZUS. They will be transmitted on an ongoing basis and each of us will have the opportunity to verify them and initiate investigations if something does not agree. The second point is that the employee will have no obligation, as the senator said, but he will have the right to receive this documentation. I think that without much risk I can say that such documentation in the employee will be safer than in the employer, who for example. For 15 years, since I came to the ZUS, it no longer exists. This is, of course, an additional, not a basic security. The basic security is the state data, i.e. data in the Social Insurance Institution. This country assumes the obligation to collect data, of course on the basis of information provided by employers. But there is also an additional security here in the form of a traditional formula for the storage of documents by the employee himself, if he wishes to do so, to the extent necessary and for as long as he wishes. As for looking at the regulation again... Mr. Senator, we didn't run to the races with that bill. We've been working on it for two years with the ZUS, with the family ministry and with all the other resorts. As you will see, senators, there are records of the specific situation of teachers, dangerous work and accidents at work. Where certain data were not in the standard information funnel, we used certain components in cooperation with the various resorts. Just the ones that didn't fit in that standard string. So from this side... to analyze it all again... Of course, this will be subject to ongoing monitoring... [[You'll be testing it in the process.]] Of course. I cannot imagine that these regulations will not be closely monitored. I will also tell you personally that it was a very difficult bill. Perhaps it is not by chance that we have not faced this issue as a country in fact for decades. I am fully convinced that not only the interests of employers, but also the interests of workers are included in these regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u37	Thank you. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u38	Minister, I understand that you have not missed the situation of almost 2 million Poles working abroad. Yes? We impose certain obligations on Polish employers and we are able to enforce something here. What will it look like if you work abroad? At the committee meeting, I was talking about this case. Turns out, for example. in Germany there is no obligation to issue a certificate of work requested by the Social Security Office in Poland. And sometimes we take into account the declaration that is there, as is ours, to be fulfilled and made up, and sometimes not, to be denied. I'm talking about it because the systems are really very diverse. The agreements are bilateral and not EU level. That is why I am asking how this issue will be regulated in the new system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u39	Mr. Senator, this isn't a bill that, as I say, collects everything that's on the line. We will not force the German employer to issue such documents as we would like to have. This is where the legal status doesn't change. Of course, the law applies to the national backyard. However, I can say, since the senator is talking about the subject of workers abroad, about the segment that this law includes contractors who are completely unprotected today. And we know how popular this form of relationship between the entrepreneur and I think it's time to say it. He's an employee. We know of situations where labour law is abused or abused in this regard. This regulation includes e.g. contractors, so that the obligation to transfer these data to the ZUS, which in turn has an obligation to store these data, will also apply to contractors, which is a novelty in the legal system. We're increasing by another group... It's about safety. In the area you're talking about... I'm just wondering quickly what legal options we have... [[Minister, I suggest, however, that we review all these agreements signed within the framework of the coordination system and the social security system. Perhaps where these regulations are similar to Polish, this could be taken into account...]] Okay, we can pay attention to that. Let us also remember the specific, so to speak, departmental responsibility, departmental responsibility. I think we may be able to draw the attention of the competent ministry rather than to undertake this operation ourselves. But we can draw that attention, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u40	Thank you. Senator Joseph the Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to make sure I got it right. There is a dual system, a system that duplicates what has so far been recorded on paper. The latter layer, the electronic layer, has this feature that... Because in connection with this mass of papers, which is already beginning to reach critical limits, there is an absolute necessity to use electronics, so that certain processes of checking data about the employee, determining certain things, etc. It was possible to speed things up. They're going to say, on paper, it could take years. And that's the whole point of this bill. This remains on paper for a long time, and the electronic layer functions for 10 years... That would totally satisfy me, just the question of whether this is the idea of the idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u42	If the employer keeps the employee files in paper form, he will also have to keep them for 10 years after the end of the employment relationship. After this period, this documentation will either be destroyed or given to the employee if he wishes. But the data, all the data from this documentation will be stored in the ZUS in an individualized manner In each employee's account. Thank you. [[Thank you. Can I have one more sentence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u43	Please, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u44	On the basis of the available data, such a question was raised here. It can be said that the durability of electronic recording is currently assessed at a risk level of 0.7 and 0.75. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Mr. Senator, as always, is very precise. Thank you for that information.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u45	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you.]] [[Voice from the room: Answer to Senator Rulewski's question in writing...]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to address the Minister, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think I can do it now. Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Today, we are not making a decision on a very technical issue that relates only to the issue of the circulation of documents. We don't have one today. Mr. Minister, you lack specialists from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to deal with only a discussion on how to help entrepreneurs in the cumbersome procedure for collecting and sending documentation. This is a law that affects almost all Poles working and all pensioners, so we should show the utmost vigilance and caution here. This law certainly brings with it a lot of good rules. It is unimaginable to keep such a mass of documents indefinitely, over such a long period. The fact that it is being shortened is a good move. The question is, what time is safe? Should it be 10 years, or should it be... I don't want to discuss it. I think we should be aware of the risks that this decision poses. The individual risk may be statistically less, just as you tried to command the minister here. I would even risk the thesis, Minister, that there is nothing to weigh on an individual basis. It's just different, but it also exists. On the other hand, when it comes to systemic risks, none of us are, of course, able to define it, but we must be aware of its existence. Those who deal with cyber-wars, hybrid wars, among the threats are the threats of electronic social security systems, and that is worldwide, not only in Poland, because it is not just our risk. For it is difficult to imagine what social unrest could arise if we did not know who and how much money to give at the right time. You can't underestimate that. At the committee meeting, I asked the Minister such a rhetorical question, whether he is sure there will always be electricity. We can't be sure of that either. And I asked you about security here. I know that in ZUS they exist because I know the work of ZUS from lining. I know there's a lot of security stuff going on there, but it's also important to remember, Minister, that we're going to have to do a lot more now, because the risk of data loss will have far greater consequences than in the past. In the past, however, we had a buffer, because these papers existed, and now after 10 years they may not be there. It seems to me that in these statements, both at the committee meeting and here, Minister, the specifics that would assure us that we are absolutely safe as future pensioners are a little short. Of course, every worker should be responsible. It is very good that there is a record in the bill that says that before the documents are deleted, the staff member will be informed of this intention. So he will be able to make sure that this documentation is collected. It also appeared in the questions. I myself called on the Minister at the committee meeting to lead, perhaps even for a long time, an information campaign, although of course these letters notifying them will also be an important element. It would be good if they were magazines, not emails that some people read, others do it unsystematically, and yet others do not read them at all. The next issue, the last one I would like to talk about, is the issue of our employees abroad. Well, it seems to me that this system will be largely, Minister, lame, incomplete, if this issue is left just as old as it is. I mean. It will be more like Senator Hare said, that there will be parallel systems, at least for these people. It's gonna be the old-fashioned way. I think it's worth a dialogue with these countries. And with most European Union countries, we have bilateral agreements on the coordination of social security systems to try to take this new system into account. And in this area in the European Union, Minister, perhaps we have something to do, something positive, something good, something for everyone, something uncontroversial. Because it seems to me that as the single market is being created and how you are aware that digitalisation will continue at an even faster pace than it is now, it is high time to create regulations that allow these 2 trends to be taken into account. And it is worth it for Poland to strive for it. The reason is simple. We're now amending our bill. Finally, I would like to say that I have serious doubts, despite the obvious advantages, as to whether responsible I could say at this point: pensioners, employees, after this change, will really be safe systems are secured, documentation in electronic form after these 10 years, stored in the state ZUS systems, will never be erased and will always be able to recreate the course of your work. Rather, I would say that, Minister: countrymen, Poles, working, young workers, remember that now your safety may depend more on you than the safety of those working before; when the documentation is to be deleted, you better take it in and store it. That is my view in general, Minister, on the question of digitising everything that can be done, so probably the views of the young generation and the older generation will differ significantly in this matter. I recommend caution in this matter. I think it would be worthwhile, Mr President, for us to attend one sitting in our committee during the vacathio legis period. If necessary, even in a classified form, because it is sensitive information To make sure that the ZUS is properly prepared to secure the data. And that's what I'm officially calling for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u47	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] Oh, Senator Szymanski. There you go. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I've been called by your senator a little bit, so literally two sentences. I think that such an idea, so that the committee during this year will look at how the ZUS system is prepared and how further work goes, is certainly very legitimate and I will gladly take it. However, I would like to express my opinion. This law is an example of a law well prepared, negotiated together with other resorts, with the department of family, work and social policy, which is very important. There is a long vacathio legis giving the opportunity to inform all interested, employers and employees about the principles of it. And it's gonna be very fruitful, it's not gonna create social tensions. I would very much like to wish the High House and myself that other laws should be prepared as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u49	Thank you very much. [[Me too.]] Senator Zbigniew Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have only the attention to the proposed content of the article. 86 §3 of the Labour Code, which again, unlike before, regulates the payment of remuneration and in my opinion in a way that does not fully meet the requirements of logic. It thus regulates that payment is made to the payment account indicated by the employee, unless the worker has applied in paper or electronic form for payment of the remuneration in his own hands. How do I see this lack of logic? Namely, the question arises, what happens if the employee does not indicate the payment account, nor does he apply to pay him money in his own hands. Therefore, I propose a different wording, namely an indication that the payment of the remuneration to my own hands occurs only if the employee fails to indicate the payment account. Then it's clear. Either the employee pointed out the payment account by which he expressed his will to make it such a form of payment, or the second part of the alternative is left: if he has not indicated the bill, he is paid in his own hands. I have a proposal to change so that there are no questionable situations here, for example. the employee will not indicate the account and will not apply for payment in his own hands. I'm about to propose a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u51	So there's going to be a motion, right? [[Yes. It's about editing.]] Okay, here you go. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on Senator Cichoń's request? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u52	Just a little bit. Mr. Senator left, but... anyway, there's no logical... there's no such thing as inaccuracies. If the employee does not submit the bill number, then of course we will not force him to do so and will receive a salary in the traditional version. In two more sentences, I will refer to Senator Augustine's words. Let me just say that ZUS specialists and the family ministry... the senator says they're gone. We were all at the committee meeting last night, and everyone's signing off on this bill. I would like to say more: this law was also discussed at the Social Dialogue Council, approved before the Social Dialogue Council, so it was created, as the President said, and in inter-ministerial arrangements, and in social arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u53	Thank you very much. I understand the senator is about to file that motion. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Jan Rulewski responsible. I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal has addressed to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs a request from the Chief Police Commissioner made through the Attorney General. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. This report is contained in print No 643. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs at its meeting on 9 November. She considered the request made by the Police Chief of Police regarding Senator Jan Rulewski. It's about allowing the senator to be held accountable. Senator Jan Rulewski presented the circumstances of the case in detail at the committee meeting and, at the same time, presented the reasons why he had not decided to waive immunity in the matter. He also answered the questions of the members of the committee. After the discussion, the vote was held. In the vote all senators At the meeting there were 6 senators voted against the request of the chief police officer to agree by the Senate to hold Senator Jan Rulewski responsible for the offence. The Commission shall submit a proposal to reject the application of the Chief Police Commissioner. I'd be happy to answer if any questions were to be answered. I'm at your disposal. [[No, we know what to do anyway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u55	Have you finished your report, Senator? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, tell me what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u57	You're welcome. Of course, my information will be based on what the committee heard from Senator Rulewski. The car that Senator Rulewski was driving was stopped and sobriety checked. Despite two attempts to blow into the appropriate device, this device showed no indication, so the senator asked for a traditional balloon to demonstrate his sobriety in a traditional way. Unfortunately, the police refused to test with a balloon and asked the senator to pull over. The senator pulled over and stopped about 20 m from the scene, but it gave the police the impression that the senator didn't want to stop, and therefore they turned on an alarm signal in the car. The senator, as explained, stopped at the nearest possible location, so 20 m from this incident, in the cove, so as not to stop the passing of other cars. Then another attempt was made to control sobriety with this device, and then the device was able to run. It turned out that the senator wasn't in the blood of alcohol, but the police took the whole thing very negative, considering that the senator was being rude and that he was using the wrong words. The case was therefore referred to the chief and referred to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u58	Thank you. Senator Dobrzyński. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u59	Thank you. Mr. Senator, are the cops at the committee meeting? You may have asked, maybe one of the senators explained this procedure, which is necessary to keep a parliamentarian, a Member or a Senator, and on what grounds... Well, if the senator introduced himself and said he was a senator, then why did they suspect he was under the influence of alcohol in this case? Has this procedure been discussed at the committee meeting, and do the police know it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u61	That's a good question. Do the police know the chief's guidelines for dealing with people with immunity? In my opinion, these cops didn't know them, because in these guidelines... [[I know that very well, Mr. Senator.]] Oh, good. [[So I don't know if the committee... well, we have to do something about it.]] Yeah, the committee took that into account, and... [[You have to do something about it, just pay attention.]] ...and I think that's why the vote was just like that. [[What are the guidelines? Because I don't know what you're talking about.]] As far as the full document is concerned, these are the guidelines of the Chief of Police on police proceedings against road traffic participants enjoying diplomatic or consular privileges and enjoying national immunity. This is what Members and Senators are concerned about, but all these guidelines are much longer. This is a several-page document on how to proceed during detention. In my view, the case at issue could be referred to in paragraph 11 (2) of Chapter 3, which reads: "If a person benefiting from national immunity is reasonably suspected of committing an offence, the first two attempts, which do not indicate any outcome at all, may suggest that something is wrong with the police. and the circumstances do not justify a request to the competent authority for its consent to be held liable should be stopped by drawing attention to it. So, I understand, after the third attempt, when it turned out that the senator wasn't drinking, to put it simply... So, according to these guidelines, the police had recommendations that in a situation where this test was not appropriate, we should only pay attention if there were other...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u62	Mr. Senator, you didn't quite understand me. Why did the police think the Senator of the Republic was under the influence of alcohol? Because there, in this detention procedure, it's all kind of clear. But where did that even come from? Well, we know there must have been some suspicion, for example. A tip. And that's the question the police have to answer. Because that's just not the way to do things.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u63	According to the senator's information, the police were controlling everyone driving down this street right now. All the cars were stopped and they controlled each and every one of them. [[Why?]] [[But they have the right.]] [[What law?]] [[Voice from the hall: It is a privilege.]] [[Excuse me.]] If you don't mind... [[Ladies and gentlemen...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, not all at once. You have the floor, senator rapporteur.]] It follows that at this point Senator Rulewski has not yet informed the police that he is a senator. On the other hand, it's hard not to know Senator Rulewski in Bydgoszcz. [[Rulewski should write a complaint.]] [[Voice from the hall: And the policemen were from Bydgoszcz?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u64	Good. Thank you very much. Are there any questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? [[We don't know if it was...]] No questions. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] [[He should write a complaint.]] According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 The Senate's Rules of Procedure shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Jan Rulewski like to make an explanation? Mr. Senator, I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During this debate, someone whispered behind my back that it was an interesting case. And in that sense, I make these explanations, not so much as to make an assessment. 'Cause it's obviously It is up to the House to make an assessment, decide whether to waive immunity or not. How much... it is worth to have a lesson in the future to avoid such situations from my successors, including the senators here present, Members. So three words of explanation. The charges of the voivodship commander are 3: firstly, he did not follow the order to move the vehicle to the designated place, secondly, he was driving on the sidewalk, and thirdly, he was going out on the road immediately before the vehicles were moving. In a word: road hooliganism. And here it is important what Senator Kobiak, as rapporteur, actually explained quite factually: the source of this, if you accept the statement of the commander, of road hooligany, was a fact that has already been described here extensively, namely that, based on noble premises, Today, I could say that I have undergone multiple sobriety checks, for 2 reasons. First of all, I have no reason not to give up because I don't really drink. And secondly, the organization of this check was that I actually had no other choice, because it was kind of like a wholesale check. All cars in an unauthorized place, cornered The road there was divided by two continuous lines It's been stopped. So I couldn't really pursue my various privileges in the care that I was going to work, and I didn't mean to argue with the police whether I was entitled to the privilege or not. In other words, he conquered reason. Yeah, except I forgot that that camera that was in there under multiple use. 'Cause according to my eye view, it was controlled before me. At least 30 people... But I wasn't the one who followed it. Anyway, the result was that the camera stayed, to put it mildly... [[Voice from the room: Contaminated.]] ...damaged with moisture... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and didn't react to my undoubted exhales. Although I don't have a Pudzian chest... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...which caused that... notabene later I checked the characteristics of this camera and it shows that the attention! You have to blow from a distance of 2 cm, neither further nor closer, because then this camera doesn't work. [[It's got to have a shingle...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, then that camera. Well, I'll say politely, by refusing to obey, he actually caused me this reaction: how much can you blow? The cops, on the other hand, made me suspect that I was blowing so that he wouldn't show anything. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So it's like he's showing me that I'm drunk or ingested. It would have been a pretty normal situation, not even grotesque, if it hadn't been for the fact that the cops had consistently followed the blow... Of course, because it was a wholesale check, they didn't ask who they were stopping, and for what purpose... I mean. The target was shown by the camera... But they didn't ask who they were stopping, so there wasn't even time to introduce themselves and identify themselves, which is, I think, a violation, because the guidelines and not only say that first a policeman has to introduce himself and tell him why he's stopping someone and ask him for documents. And then it would come out... 'Cause I could have been some kind of killer with a wanted BOLO... Yeah, different things. And that's why the police have a duty to identify. And that way it'll work out who they've got in front of them. Yeah, but they switched their suspicions to, I'd say, detention. Of course, detention is understood as an obligation to travel with the police to the hospital. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Well, to verify this situation. I, of course, stopped at a place not indicated. And maybe at this point there's a weakness. I didn't stop at this point because if I had left my car there, the police would have taken it and I would have had it back all day, as they say. And then the cops really stopped me: they locked my door in their car and banned me from leaving the car. [[Did you have the keys in your car?]] Yeah, I did. But they told me not to because they even blocked my vehicle's movement. And they went on to do a lot of things. I'll be honest with you, you know me, I'm sure... But I gave in to another check, which finally showed that I was... [[Sober.]] ...on the whole scale not only sober I didn't get out of the car. But there was also no indication that I had at least a minimum amount of alcohol. Right? However, the police then And that's where the dilemma of immunity is because she knew that I was a senator... However, she preceded these actions by checking the technical condition of the car, personal hygiene, etc., etc. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And then she realized, passing by... addressing me as "Jasiu"... as "Jasiu" or as "Jan," I can't remember... as "Jasiu" as "Jasiu" as "Jan" as... [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing.]] ...and moved on to drawing up a proposal and hence it is taken into account here and has not even proposed a mandate To the court concerning the offence. So she started a criminal investigation. The evidence of this initiation is... it's not just an initiation, which the Chief here is withholding, which he doesn't write about... Because there were witness hearings. Only now that the police have arrived I don't want to talk ugly. When she realized... She says she checked on the Internet who I am, even though I admit I gave my name, I said I was Jan Rulewski, the senator. He also claims I didn't show my ID. Well, the question is, then, how did she file a court order? Is it possible that based on information from the Internet? Besides, how did she recognize my face when the picture wasn't there... But these are details, I'd say, technical. This is how I get here in front of the High House in the belief that I have been subjected to police control more than I have the authority to do. I also believe that I have not exceeded the standards of correct Polish language in behaviour towards police officers. The nervousness of the situation was, I admit, but in the interest of not being insulted by immunity, so that the truth is not withheld... Because, after all, the proceedings were opened, immunity was offended, and the marshal was not approached. Right? And here it's said that it was just an investigation. Other charges have also been added, such as: That I waved my hand. Well, if I had my hands in my pocket, I might have been accused of being rude. I'd rather avoid it, but I waved my hand, among other things. To point out that they even blocked traffic on the road through my person. If I want to be popular, it's not because of the traffic situation. I therefore ask the High House to accept the position of the Rules of Procedure Committee. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u66	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna ask if any of your senators would like to ask Senator Rulewski a question. [[I have a question.]] Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u67	Mr. Senator, my question... Here, Mr. Senator. Władysław Komarnicki... [[Ah, Senator Komarnicki.]] Here's my question. Was there an attempt on your part by the chief of police in the voivodship, once he found out that you were a senator, to have a consecration conversation with you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u68	There was a conversation through a complaint that I filed and, of course, rejected. He only accepted one charge, but halfway... The point was also that the form in which I was referred to and which, however, confirms that I was recognized as Janie or Jasiu It's a form now adopted by the police. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But as a courtesy. [[Is that what it says?]] That's what they said. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u69	You're asking Senator Hare a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'd like to, if that's what you might call it, report a deziderate. The point is that, in situations like this, when we discuss such matters, there's a police representative in the courtroom, at least the chief of the voivodship, who...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u71	Mr. Senator, this is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We'll find out about it tomorrow, too. Do you have a question for the senator? [[No, just this.]] Mr. Senator Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u72	Mr. Senator, after you realized who you were, did the police apologize for the incident or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u73	No. I, in turn, thought that... Until the time the proceedings were initiated, inter alia, they had been questioned. My wife, I thought this case would naturally blur, disappear. It was just an incident. There may have been some nervousness on one side or the other, but... I repeat that there was no problem with alcohol consumption, but of course there was no attempt to escape. How here in the city center to escape the current from organized police patrols, etc.? Well, I don't want to talk about the background anymore... As you know, there are always backgrounds in such matters, but the High House should be given some concreteness, reliability. That's why I won't talk about them. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u74	Question? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you mentioned that the police searched the car. Maybe they found that prison den that you were in here in the trunk? Because then you'd be a fugitive from prison... [[A voice from the hall: Or a mask?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u76	That's interesting. I would really violate the law here, because I wouldn't submit. They found a good fire extinguisher, a clean trunk, as ordered... [[Leopard...]] [[Is that what it says?]] That's what they told me. That's what they said. ...and I think it's cool on the steering wheel, checked and... But there was a review, so... [[It would be good for them to replace the blocks by the way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u77	Are there any more questions for Senator Rulewski? There isn't. Mr. Senator, thank you so much. [[Thank you.]] The vote will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Lydia Staroń. I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal has submitted a request from a private prosecutor to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. It is included in print No 657. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee on the application of a private prosecutor to consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the criminal liability of Senator Lydia Staroń. On 28 September 2017, the Senate Marshal sent a request to the committee. Having considered this request at its meeting on 14 November 2017, pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 5 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee shall submit a proposal to reject the application submitted on 21 September 2017 by Mr Zenon Procyk, represented by attorney Jerzy Bogdan Jankowski, to allow the Senate of the Republic of Poland to take Senator Lydia Staroń into criminal liability. High Izbo, the committee at its meeting took an in-depth look at the explanation made by Senator Lydia Staroń, and took note of the request made to the Marshal for the Senate's consent to waive immunity. The case concerns Senator Lydia Staron's statement in the media, and I quote: "It turned out that in our country there was no responsibility for taking away a family with seven children who owned a 60-metre-long apartment for inciting a crime, because there was a statute of limitations, also for other things, mismanagement. Referring to this request to the Senate Marshal, he claims that there has been an inquiry into such proceedings which may humiliate this Mr Zenon Procyk in the public opinion and expose him to the loss of confidence needed to perform the profession of sales representative. In a complex explanation, the senator points out that her senatorial activities are related to such and other cases related to the harm done by various bodies concerning individuals. The senator points out that the request for consent to criminal liability should not be taken into account, also because it concerns I quote here my activities covered by the so-called material immunity, i.e. activities falling within the scope of the Senator's mandate. Meanwhile, Jerzy Jankowski is demanding that the formal immunity be waived, i.e. that he consents to be held liable for acts that are not in the exercise of his mandate. However, there can be no doubt that on 6 April 2017 I was asked to comment by journalists of the Polish Television Programme 3 Olsztyn, granted in the senator's office because of my parliamentary status and my current parliamentary activity, which is an integral part of which is to intervene in matters of social interest, in particular in matters which shock the public. Undoubtedly, it was a shocking thing to throw a large family, including advanced pregnant women, out of their homes. In this situation, the request for waiver of immunity should be left unrecognized. The Commission proposes, as I said earlier, to reject the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u79	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? Senator Jan Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u80	Mr President, the Senator rapporteur pointed out that the charge... I didn't hear you. Sorry, I didn't read the material. - Nothing. - No, no, no, on the charge that the senator was supposed to be directing to someone all the time. I didn't hear that he was personal to be turned to somebody. Next: I didn't hear if it was a charge. violations of the rules of conduct or provisions of any code. As I understand it, it was merely an opinion. And it wasn't directed at a particular institution. Even if it could be located indirectly Only towards a country where you do not follow, so I understood, in general, the principles of social justice. Is that what it looks like?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u81	As for the issue of living, I did not find such a reference in the proposal. It is indicated here that Mrs. Lydia Staron, our senator's colleague, has committed crimes of art. 212 §2 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 212 §1 of the Criminal Code. Again, it's a public statement given to the media in the senator's office. Here it is by the handler quoted. It turned out that in our country it was not the responsibility to take away a family with seven children owned a 60-metre-long apartment, for inciting a crime, because there was a statute of limitations, also for other things, mismanagement. It follows that it is appropriate for the claimants in a very professional language that they consider it to be a denial and exposure to the loss of confidence needed in the pursuit of the profession of sales representative. I will not quote this because it is a language that probably not all your senators will be interested in. However, it seems that the literal statement made by Mrs Lydia Staron gives the High House a view of how it could have been interpreted. I have also cited a comprehensive section of the statement of reasons, Mrs Lydia Staron's reference to this proposal, which she has made and to the hands of the Marshal, and to the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. The Commission had no doubt that this request had to be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u82	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 The Senate's Rules of Procedure shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Lydia Staron like to make an explanation? [[Yes.]] Senator, I'd like to invite you to the podium. Your vote, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! Of course, I want to make an explanation because it's a private indictment. You know what I've been doing for years? I have intervened in many matters, for several years I have been particularly concerned with matters of housing cooperatives in Poland, matters relating to bailiffs. If it were that every person who feels offended by my speech, talked... Honestly, I don't know if I'd ever get out of court because any bailiff or offended co-op president... If I had the immunity waiver, my whole senator life would probably be completely different. But I'm going to refer specifically to these charges. This is a request by a private prosecutor to waive my immunity and I would therefore like to make these explanations to you. The case concerning immunity was filed by the former President of the Housing Cooperative in Olsztyn, also by a secret employee of the SB, but I will also tell you why I even mention it. I don't want to tell you what was going on in this cooperative, because it would probably take me all day, and after all, my colleagues have asked me to make it as short as possible. I'm gonna try to do it anyway. Everyday not only in this cooperative, but also in many other cooperatives is that I would have to talk about falsifying elections, bribes paid by repair and construction contractors. Those things weren't patronized at the time, although they were proven, although people said I gave 10% I gave you a percentage because the president of the cooperative didn't have a public office. There are waivers of such proceedings, where the case is actually proven... And this is all from people's money, because these robots were at a different price... I would also have to talk about families thrown out of apartments, and on the other hand about apartments purchased at very preferential prices by, so to speak, a group of my own; people treated like garbage, that is to say, so mildly; people's tragedies. But I would also talk about attempts to fight, because it's mostly about attempts to fight; it's worth mentioning the struggle that was smothered by discrediting the daredevils by putting paid pussy in local media. It was this everyday life in many cooperatives, including in that cooperative. Intimidation, numerous redemptions. The prosecutor was very sloppy, but also the court judgments were amazing. And then in that cooperative, after all these different events, and especially after... Today, ladies and gentlemen... We've heard about some calls on the phone with the judges. I'm in possession of transcripts of conversations that were then conducted with judges, with prosecutors. Well, these fragments just shock you that it's possible that things like this could happen. Or maybe. Post office employees on the phone to the post office chief were picking out mailboxes of information... An association of cooperative members was established. They put in every mailbox, put in cooperative blocks information about a television program that showed some of the pathology. Imagine that the phone call to the then postmaster caused that not only mailmen, it was also cooperative employees who chose this information. That's what happened. By the way, it would have to be mentioned that the earnings, on the one hand, were very excessive in some cases the various charges of the co-operatives, because they paid for it, and on the other hand, the earnings of the president, for example. over PLN 20,000. Or the case of law firms. - That's by the way. which e.g. Within... I remember making documentation of the year 2004: law firms 300,000 PLN from the pockets of co-operatives... For two years, the law firm itself, if I remember correctly, is the Attorney of Smoktunovich, the good law firm... In this Olsztyn cooperative Almost PLN 300,000 was also collected from the co-counsel's pockets. And now, what did I fail to do to that former CEO of the cooperative? It was the determination of the co-workers that finally led, after all the bailouts, after everything that happened, to the fact that an indictment was made. After a heroic struggle, people led them to seek justice. But this justice has different faces. And, indeed, as the senator here pointed out, as to the general, to the whole, to the conclusion of this judgment or to these actions of the justice system in turn, I said: "It turned out that in our country there was no responsibility for taking away a family with seven children owned by a 60-metre-long apartment, for inciting a crime, because there was a statute of limitations, also for other things, the mismanagement. I said that after the Supreme Court's judgment, to which the Attorney General filed the cassation. That's what we've been talking about here, and that's what we've been talking about on this platform. It turned out that this cassation has no legal basis, because it is no longer possible to go back to the facts, it is no longer possible to recognize it. That's why when we talked about the emergency complaint... So, of course, this cancellation had to be dismissed. This is a failure of the justice system in relation to everything that has happened. Now I will refer only to three elements of this statement. It was an admission, but also not to prolong... [[There's no need for that, Senator.]] But I'd like you to know at all... Because this is a reality that affects millions of people. I'll try really briefly. As for this first element, the case of solicitation for false testimony... Yes, the court remitted the proceedings, which is the judgment of 2015 on this act and in this respect because of the limitation of the criminality of the act. This is in the judgment of the court. Second thing, mismanagement. Well, imagine they've been booked... The building was built. In Olsztyn it was called the Jury building or the VIP building. In this building they got family presidents, accountants, members of the supervisory board, but also judges, prosecutors and other important people. It's been booked... So for the land, co-operatives paid for the use of perpetual land, not the buyers of housing, but other co-operatives. The car park was paid for by a repair fund, but also by other co-operatives, which means the buyer was not paying again. Thus the cost of 1 m2 was PLN 1 thousand 511. 1 m2 apartment in this very attractive building. And the court said that this is a mismanagement. He said he was. But because of the art. 296... that's what he said. I took into account only one element, not this repair fund, not other issues, but this one element. It was about PLN 194,000, if I remember correctly. So that the court said: there is no 200,000 PLN. There is a mismanagement, which means there has been an irregularity, but there is no qualifying offence under Article. 296. And the last piece. It's about a woman who was kicked out of her apartment nine months pregnant, a week before she was born, and who had six children. And I'm just gonna read her testimony here. She was a second-rate prosecutor. And why is that statement? I went to the president's room and asked him to stop the eviction. I borrowed money from my family, and I could already pay off all my debt. I'm pointing out, this is a property apartment these people bought for cash. I wanted to save the property where my 8-person family lived. I was nine months pregnant with another child. Mr. President rejected my hot request and told me not to put money in the cooperative's cash register. He told me to stay home and wait for the bailiff. Still, I went to the post office and put that money into the cooperative's account. I was at the president's again, begging him to stop evicting me. I was treated horribly by him, mocked me, mocked me. At home, when the bailiff showed up, I signed everything he gave me. Then my furniture began to be removed, and then there was a hospital. Mrs. Barbara Szypulska is a tailor. Today she is the mother of seven children. All these kids raised their husbands to be decent people, most of them have graduate degrees. But at some point, Mrs. Barbara was in financial trouble. She was a seamstress, and her husband lost his job. He worked at our local plant, earlier OZOS.Stomil, and now Michelin, but he lost his job and they were in trouble. They had about 8,000 zlotys of debt at the moment she said she paid in... And she paid all that money with interest. But not only did she get kicked out of this apartment. With furniture, with the whole family It was not given to her for this apartment, not a penny. The daughter of the chief accountant moved into this apartment. She lived there, and after two years, she sold this apartment at market price, of course. And Mrs. Barbara? All these years, we've been helping her fight for justice. And imagine what this justice looks like, what punishment this chief accountant has suffered for taking away this apartment. She was punished for 1 year suspended for 2 years. And to return Mrs. Basi after 15 or 18 years of fighting, I don't remember 22 thousand zlotys within 1 year of the conviction. Twenty-two thousand with pennies. [[Senator to Jan Dobrzyński: 1.5 thousand a year.]] What's she gonna buy for it? She's gonna buy herself a four-footer while she's lost 60 m2 of her own apartment. I'm sorry, but is this justice, or is this some kind of punishment? Has anyone been held responsible for taking away this family's apartment? That's why I said it. I stress that I would say the same thing today, and perhaps even more so, in the context of what happened to all these people. I don't want to prolong it anymore, so for a very short time... I wouldn't just say that. I'm gonna keep doing the same thing because I think we're all... After all, each of us deals with an area, and these are sometimes very uncomfortable areas. The easiest way is, especially when you have money, come to court, file a private file. And then there you go: you don't have immunity, so just sit back and defend yourself. Of course, I ask your senators to share the committee's position. That's not enough, I think I've done absolutely nothing wrong. Today I would say this perhaps even more bluntly. These are very balanced words, but very, very hurtful. Besides, I don't think such a thing should ever happen, such responsibility... In this very strange trial that took place, judges were exchanged, the prosecutor didn't even appeal at some point. It was all so strange, but it had its basis, its background, and that's why I told you about it at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Dobrzyński. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Not in this case, but I'm gonna use it, and I'm gonna talk to you at this point. I would like to ask you very kindly, Mrs. Marshal, to oblige your ethics committee to prepare a letter. I'll be happy to help, but there's also some very smart people there. ! addressed to the Prime Minister in connection with this previous case, the procedure I was talking about. Because that's the problem. not only in this case, as we hear, there are quite a lot of problems when it comes to others. So that such a letter is unfortunately necessary in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u86	Thank you very much. [[You have to commit them... there's one president.]] Are there any questions? [[I have a question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u87	Excuse me, is this president still the President-in-Office? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u88	No. No, no, no. As it was said here, a sales rep... [[He's retired.]] Yeah, but... [[And when did the lawyer file this?]] I don't know. Sometime in the fall, right? This is where the committee would answer... [[Thank you very much.]] Anyway, in November, there was a committee meeting on this subject, and that was what I was going to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any questions? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u90	I'm familiar with this kind of thing. Here it is not important what someone is saying and where they say in this case, as I understand it, to the media But it's important whether anyone heard it. And here's the question: are there other witnesses besides this person who would confirm that this president, in his dignity, was offended or stabbed by the senator? Is this indicated in the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u91	I mean, in the notice... actually, the proposal, not the notice made to the committee, didn't say anything like that. This statement was a comment to the local medium. Like I said, in my opinion, it was absolutely true. In conclusion, I said that in our country there is no responsibility for taking away a family with seven children owning a 60-metre-long apartment. No one's ever held responsible for this pickup. There's a settlement, there's 20,000 after all these years as a compensation. And it's not for picking up, it's for billing. I said it wasn't my responsibility to instigate a crime. and for the mismanagement which the court has declared in its proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u92	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] There are no more questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will announce a recess by 2:00 p.m., but I would like to read the message again. I would like to remind you that at 12.00 the exhibition of the Marshall of Piłsudski will be opened. Red Tram to Independence Stop. Once the session is resumed, we will proceed with the examination of paragraph 6: the Act amending the Law on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. We're still on the news. Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the proposals for the Act amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of storage of employee files and their electronicisation will take place today immediately after the adjournment of the session in room 182. I kindly inform you of the 60th meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, to be held on 18 January at 13.40 p.m. in room 179. Agenda: opinion of the committee on the formal correctness of Senator Maciej Grubski's statement of 16 January 2018 to consent to criminal liability for the actions specified in the application of the Head of the Łódź Department of Foreign Affairs Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Łódź of 20 December 2017, submitted through the Deputy Prosecutor General to the Marshal of the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u94	Thank you. I'm declaring a recess until 2:00 p.m. At 12:00 p.m., the exhibition opens. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 03 to 14 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u95	I'm reopening the session. Mr. Senator Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 704 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 704 A and 704 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Legislative Commission together with the conclusions of a minority of the committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 10 January 2018 on amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. To begin with, I will say a few words in general about the purpose and subject of the amendment. The main objective of this amendment is to introduce changes that will counter the chronicity of proceedings pending before the Commission for the reprivatisation of Warsaw real estate and increase citizens' confidence in the committee and its decisions. The Act provides for a revision of the provisions providing for an extension of the scope of the cognition of committees, namely the scope of the cases to be dealt with by the committee, as well as a clarification that both final and final decisions may be the subject of an exploratory procedure before the committee. According to the explanatory memorandum to the Act, the result of the planned changes will be among others. increase the access of committees to the documents needed in the course of proceedings before the committee. The Act also aims to ensure the mobilisation of fines in cases of infringement. To the rest, the amendments proposed in the Act concern inter alia. procedures for proceedings before the committee, access to documents and data collected by other bodies and institutions, processing of personal data and the transparency of the committee's proceedings. As I said at the outset, an important change of substance is a change in the scope of the cognition of committees. This will be done by changing the definition of the legal concept of "reprivatisation decision." The decision to reprivatise will now also be considered to be a decision of the competent authority issued in exceptional modes, i.e. the reopening of the proceedings, annulment, amendment or revocation of the decision on the application referred to in the relevant provisions on land ownership and use in the capital city of Warsaw, and on the basis of specific provisions which gave rise to the payment of compensation or to the award of compensation in connection with the property in Warsaw. The Act also provides for the enforcement of the statutory tasks of the committees by indicating that, in the course of its work, the committee is required to clarify irregularities and shortcomings in the activities of the bodies and persons involved in the proceedings for reprivatisation decisions. In addition, a committee shall be equipped with the powers of the prosecutor as defined in administrative and civil proceedings and the corresponding powers under the Law of the Prosecutor's Office. And here's an important reservation: the law doesn't grant the prosecutor's authority to the committee in criminal proceedings. An important part of the provisions of the amendment are also provisions which change the remit of the chairman of the committee. Mr Patrick, at the stage of the committee's work, argued that at this point the legal situation is such that the President must be constantly present during all committee deliberations. Even when he leaves the committee for some technical purpose, it is alleged that he was not present when making important statements or explanations. So these are practical rules that are conducive to the pragmatism and effectiveness of committee procedures. The Act provides the Commission with access to judicial material which may be necessary in the course of its activities. The Act provides for the possibility for the Commission to initiate the so-called "laws'. General proceedings. It is intended to enable the committee to collect evidence, explain irregularities and shortcomings in the activities of the authorities and persons involved in the proceedings concerning the issuing of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate. Such material and evidence collected in general proceedings will be able to be taken into account in exploratory proceedings without being carried out on a case-by-case basis and be the basis for appropriate action against persons who have been found to have irregularities or deficiencies. The revised amendment also allows the party or witness to be summoned to the hearing by announcing in the Public Information Bulletin on the subject-matter side of the office serving the Minister of Justice. However, in such a case, a witness who does not appear at the committee's call will not be fined for failure to act without a legitimate reason. In view of the doubts so far as to determine the parties to the exploratory procedure in the Act, it was decided that the capital city of Warsaw is a party to the exploratory procedure before the committee. Such a matter, which at the stage of the meeting of the Legislative Commission aroused particular interest of the senators, was the issue of increasing the maximum fine for unjustified non-compliance at the hearing of the committee or leaving the hearing without the permission of the party's chairman, witness and expert from the amount of PLN 3 000 to PLN 10 000 or even PLN 30 000 in the event of a repeated failure to comply with the call. The Minister's justification here was that we are dealing with a particular kind of matter. We are also dealing with people standing before the committee who are professionally prepared to defend themselves. These are usually wealthy and typical fines resulting from administrative procedures they don't impress them, so they're not a factor... [[Probably won't help either.]] I'm the committee's rapporteur, Senator, so if you'd just let me... If the committee wants to have real instruments to influence how it is treated by stakeholders, it must also have real instruments to enforce its regulations, its provisions, its decisions. The Minister emphasized here several times, comparing this committee e.g. with the committees of inquiry in the Sejm, that its specificity is that the committee mainly uses legal instruments and administrative procedures. It does not have the usual powers of criminal procedure, and it can therefore be said that it has only soft means at its disposal, not as are in the criminal procedure, where it can be ordered, for example, to bring a person to committee meetings. I think that's all I'm gonna be saying about these major substantive changes, and I'm not gonna give them any more. As regards the course of the sitting itself, as I said, Mr Patryk Jak was present at the meeting first and foremost. There was also a representative of the Warsaw Capital City Office, director Maria Młotkowska. The Director has raised a number of reservations about the amendment, as well as, more broadly, the law. And I think it was a canon of criticism that has appeared from the very beginning in relation to this law. So there were allegations concerning the constitutionality of the law, the committee's entry into the jurisdiction of the courts, SKOs, prosecutors, i.e. charges of violation of the three divisions of power. Another point was the committee's call as a witness. There was also a question of increasing sanctions for non-compliance. As regards this, the Director argued that the proposed amount was disproportionate to the sanctions provided for in other legislation. Another point raised by the Director is that the possibility of appeal to the court is excluded from the fine imposed by the committee, by excluding the application of the article. 88 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which, according to your director, violates the constitutional right to court. There were still several charges, but, as I say, they are already quite well known in public space, because they were also raised at the stage of the procession of the law in the Sejm. As far as the senators' positions are concerned, Senator Sztark and Senator Zdrojewska took the floor. Senator Sztark has tabled a number of amendments which have not received the support of the committee, but with Senator Zdrojewska they are submitting minority proposals, so the senator will have an opportunity here to address these issues. Senator Marek Borowski also paid attention to what I have already mentioned, namely the question of the amount of fines, and whether, instead of creating such draconian fines in its amount, it would not be better to simply use the instruments already known as the criminal procedure. But, as I said before, the Minister explained that the committee mainly has administrative instruments. Referring to the arguments for non-constitutionality, the Minister noted that so far no request had been made to the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility of this law with the Constitution. And this is the only way in our legal system to establish the unconstitutionality of the law. Therefore, until the Constitutional Tribunal has given a ruling in this case, we are moving in the area of legal polemics and the law is based on the presumption of constitutionality. One amendment was adopted at the stage of the committee's work. This was an amendment tabled by me. She was about art. 40 and the problem arising from the interpretation of the revised Article. 40. Namely, there may have been such an impression that this provision at this point obliges the perpetual accounting court to investigate the circumstances concerning the... state of knowledge of the real estate buyer about the circumstances underlying the repeal of the reprivatization decision. It's a case where a buyer acts in good faith. However, this is a fact which is the subject of investigation in proceedings pending before the committee. If the real estate buyer did not know and could not know with due diligence the existence of the basis for repealing the decision, so-called. irreparable legal effects and therefore the committee may not issue a decision resulting in the entry in the perpetual book and Article. 40 just doesn't apply. Senator Sztark has also prepared a similar sounding amendment that deals with the same issue as regards substance. Well, it can actually be said that my amendment has consummated that amendment. And this amendment was adopted unanimously by the committee. I think that's all for the report, so far I'm going to limit myself to that. If there are any questions, of course I serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u97	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Why are these conclusions of minorities and amendments that we have tabled? I'll say right away, of course, our main objection. As for the acquisition of property rights to the premises by buyers, as if without knowledge... And here we have agreed, we have accepted together an amendment that has been accepted by the committee. I'm also going to propose today that I give up my application at all... We have resigned from the minority proposal, and we have therefore adopted this amendment as a joint amendment on, I recall, Article. 40. As far as our minority proposals are concerned, we still believe that the proposed amendments confer competence on the committee, unfortunately, on the justice system and assigned exclusively to the judiciary. They're just interfering... These are fundamental constitutional issues. This constitutes a clear and obvious infringement as expressed in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland rules for the division of authorities as well as Article. 175 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland listing the institutions responsible for the exercise of justice. It is also worth pointing out here that Article. 177 of the Constitution establishes a presumption of the exercise of justice by common courts, in so far as the laws do not reserve the jurisdiction of other courts for a particular legal matter. Of course, we believe in the goodwill of the states that set up the committee, which determines whether it works quite intensively. We also hope that this committee will work on the basis of legislation and constitutional provisions. It can't be that the team accepts rules that should apply only and only... that they take over the powers of the judiciary. I'm also reporting... During the committee meeting, 22 amendments were tabled, and today, in addition, without waiting for the end of my speech, I am proposing two more amendments. They are, as a consequence, a consequence of the amendments tabled. And since we have not actually given the legislators too much time, they are also due to this supervisory procedure, for which I thank you, because it was certainly hard work for our legislators. As far as minority proposals are concerned, I would like to mention three of our basic reservations, the cases that raised our greatest concern, and then I would limit myself only to mentioning these amendments enumeratively. Alternatively, if you are interested, I will also refer to this during the debate. As far as amendments are concerned, these include: The lines... I'll read the text of the article. 14a, for which we refer to the deletion of it: The Commission may use data on the person obtained pursuant to Article for the purpose of carrying out the tasks arising from the Act. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a and Article 1a 14 and process them without the knowledge and consent of the data subject. Next: the so-called question. Cleaners of tenement houses, on which Minister Taki focused special attention. It's actually kind of rocky, and... We often hear about this problem that housecleaners can effectively make life difficult for people, tenants, wanting to get rid of them, but our opinion is that it's not a fine... Because if they're wealthy people, they can handle it, otherwise they can do it. The bill that Senator Rulewski was the author of, I'll remind you, regarding these cleaners was regulated... In our view, it would be much simpler and better to deal with this through a criminal code that limits this type of practice. I think that would be an effective way to handle this case. Ladies and gentlemen, another very important issue in this context. The amounts of these fines are indistinguishable, they amount to 10 and 30 thousand, but this is where a natural person acting as an organ does not want to appear... It's just, as we know, the president, in the wild. That's the kind of punishment you put on. Our doubts are due to the fact that... well, the problem concerns the issue of appeal against the penalties imposed. Come on, ladies and gentlemen. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20a, which we also propose to delete, we read that in the cases referred to in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 and Article 3 Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 in the event of a repeated failure to comply with the request, the committee may also apply to the competent district attorney. The request shall state the reasons for ordering the person called to be detained and forced to bring in the requested person. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't imagine we're only 25 years past... [[After we've recovered...]] ...to regain independence they had to use the prosecutor's office to bring in the requested person. In our view, there are completely different legal options in this regard. In addition, he must raise objections... And here is the question of what to do if parts of the premises are covered by pre-sale contracts. Would that, I would say, the right to return result in the termination of these contracts? What about the mortgage agreements entered into for the purchase of these premises? Ladies and gentlemen, there are many very serious doubts about the operation of this committee. I repeat: glory for this, if, as a result of the work of this commission throughout Poland, reprivatization... Let me remind you that this is not just about Warsaw There are many cities in which it is also a burning problem. Until now, we have not managed to all of us, all of our teams with this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that as a result of these tightenings of the law, there will be too often an opportunity to make final decisions without the possibility of appeal. The Commission has the right to make final decisions, these are final decisions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the State of law, every citizen has the right to raise a reservation, the right to a court. For now, this constitution is functioning and we should respect the principles of the rule of law. I'm not gonna talk anymore. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; The 40 you were talking about, the senator. I'm really glad that this is... because it was probably the most serious of these reprivatization cases, directly affecting the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that the citizen who purchased the property, the God of the guilty spirit, because he did not know about it, bears full responsibility and is lost to the State Treasury as a result, because that is what happens. Now, in order to apply directly to the rules, I am making proposals for minorities. One. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 1 in point 3: (a) a In the introduction to the calculation, the words "or not final', (b) are deleted. (b) in point (b) of point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; and the words "or refusal to take account of the application referred to in Article' shall be deleted. Paragraph 7 1 of the Decree, lit. (c) in point (c) of point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; b the words "the right to use perpetual property in Warsaw' or "the right to use perpetual real estate' are deleted. Now for the next deletion. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 of point 3 is deleted. b and c. Come on, three. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 6 is deleted. Fourth motion. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 7, point (a) is deleted. a and b. Fifth. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 8 in point (a) c, in the mouth. 2 After the words "the President of the Commission," the words "not less than 7 days from the date of receipt of the application" shall be added. Come on. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 11 is deleted. Another one. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: point 17 is deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 18 is deleted. [[Not so fast.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Good. I'm the one who's gonna be... [[Not so fast, because...]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: point 19 is deleted. Come on. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 20 is deleted. Oh, I'm gonna have to make those adjustments. Can I have those back? Good. Thank you. Excuse me, it's my fault. Another one. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 26: in point (a) and the indent of the second indent is deleted, and point (a) is deleted. b. Point 12: Article 12 Point 27 is deleted. Point 13: in Article 2, the following paragraph is added: point 28 is deleted. Come on. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 29 is deleted. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you so much and I'm sorry. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 30, in Article. 32 the words "Article" shall be deleted. 31a, 31a, 31a, 31a, 31a, 31a, 31a, 31a, 31a, 31a, In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 36: In the letter of amendment, the words "art." 37a.37d. is replaced by the words "Article." (c) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 37 is deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 38, in paragraph 1. 1 the words "3a" are deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: point 39 is deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 40 is deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 41 is deleted. [[There's a lot going on.]] [[They're casturing the bill...]] Well, what's been brought in now is the exacerbations. The right to court cannot be restricted. Article 4 is deleted. 5. And today... As I said before, these are the amendments which are the consequence of these amendments tabled earlier. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: point 12 is deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 33 and in Article. 35 in point 1 the words "3a" are deleted. It's now... Please. Thank you so much and I'm sorry. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u99	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators can report from an ongoing location... [[No, not yet.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Who else? [[There are still rapporteurs.]] [[Well, yeah, they can report...]] No, no... I'm sorry. [[Senator Silence.]] Senator Silence now. [[I've been crossed out.]] Mr. Senator... Relax, we'll wait. [[Which senator?]] [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] [[Which senator is called? Because I signed up for the question.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the very comprehensive presentation of the matter by my predecessors, I took part in a short presentation, in fact, of a brief meeting of the Human Rights Committee. Well, one amendment that I tabled was adopted at that meeting, which I tabled today. I'm sure you'll be surprised. I'm going to ask you not to take it into account. I'm withdrawing it because it came from reading... Because the recipe is so formulated that I read it And, even worse, all the other participants in the meeting read it the same way I read it a little bit wrong. And that point 10, which concerns Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) and in which I proposed to insert the letter "in" does not, however, require the letter "in" to be inserted. I'm most sorry for the little fuss that came out of it. Well, that's also due to the fact that the recipe is formulated in such an unconventional way, and that's why reading it caused some kind of difficulty, which we all fell victim to, although I was the beginning of this chain, for which I apologize. I apologize for reading... and reporting this doubt that didn't actually exist. Thus, the committee adopted a law adopted by the Sejm without amendment. Well, except for the one thing I'm talking about, I'm backing out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u101	Thank you, Senator. And now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the committee, as I hear now, has adopted a law without amendment Although the amendment was accepted. You didn't ask us to give up our rights. But there was a minority request at the committee meeting. And this minority request has been reported by 2 senators of platformer pronunciation, from the Civic Platform, namely the senator, patron of Pociej and senator, who is present before you, and I hope you still recognize him. [[Counselor?]] No, not a patron. Of course, as Senator Silence said, the sitting was short, but I think it's meaningful. And the minority proposal will give the spirit of this discussion. The minority proposal aims to reject this law in its entirety. This can undoubtedly cause, first, astonishment, second, a feeling of dissatisfaction with the fact that the fruitage of Members' work Previously, it was probably a government project, and now it is a draft of MPs to be turned into annihilated when we are undoubtedly dealing with a large social problem, which is wrong, illegal, with the standards of social coexistence carried out in Warsaw. It may also raise concerns about the bias of the senators, because in the opinion of Minister Jaki and not only try to defend their party colleague, President Gronkiewicz-Waltz. So first of all, I warn you: the Civic Platform is interested in firing out this plague, which has appeared, the plague associated with the reprivatization of Warsaw land; the excavation of effective, fair and consistent with the letter of law. And in accordance with the letter of law, for example, so that this process does not have its legs, it does not have its continuation in other institutions of law in Poland and abroad. And it's not literal. I would remind you that, as part of the work of the Senate Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions, both these senators, also representing the Civic Platform, under the leadership or under the direction of the Senator, the President of the Sewerinski Committee, took the initiative of the Ombudsman and led to an effective legislative process through which the so-called. House cleaners have been included in the penal code as a unique institution that violates not only administrative law but also criminal law. Yes, sir. It took a lot of effort to convince the Sejm, the then minister, and today the minister in the government of PiS, Gowina, to treat the house cleaners as people who use violence, violence against tenants. And this is included in the article. 191 of the Penal Code, it can be verified that this institution, known as tenement cleaners, committed violations of legal standards, rental standards that violate building law, is being prosecuted under this article, and this is subject to the threat of three years of imprisonment. And it is a more severe and competitive punishment, which I do not understand, in relation to what this law represents, because this law only speaks of a fine. As Senator Shark said, a fine can be paid off by everyone. Well, it's definitely harder with prison. I would also like to draw your attention... The Minister is not the author of this solution... I would also like to draw attention to this I'm directing this to you personally. That the Platform was interested in extending this law to the whole country, which the Minister has until today, despite his promises... In fact, that's when you deleted that amendment, and despite making a promise, it's not really happening today. I'd also like to say a little bit about myself, because that too... At the time, I proposed an alternative solution to the problem as regards the capital city of Warsaw, thanks to which there would be greater compatibility in the application of this specialty, but above all this law would be free from political pressures and political suspicions, among others. that charge I'm going to be talking about. I thought, Minister, that... since 200 judges are working at the Ministry of Justice, in my opinion, with the help of those seconded to the magistrates. The legal and legislative solution that would be effective, credible and politically free from daily hearing of the place and when Mrs. Gronkiewicz-Waltz was born, with whom she married and what her uncle had... And I understand that such teams, made up of judges seconded to the Ministry of Justice, would be able to carry out this process in line with the expectations of a democratic rule of law. Why am I making such a far-reaching conclusion? Because in the expertise we use, carried out by constitutionalists, among others. Professor Chmaja, this amendment is presented: an amendment which appeared only after a few months of application of the previous law, which means the impermanence of the previous law 10 allegations of violation of the constitution. I think we all understand one of them, and we don't need to resort to the law here. This is the power of this law, deepened by the wording of the amendment, the institution of the commission was established in Poland to remove the consequences of the decision... of the committee, which consists primarily of politicians, Members. At the head of this committee is the minister, also stubborn, and also about the competence and knowledge below the legal assistant in any institution, in addition to the candidate to the authorities of Warsaw, what he does not hide, hence perhaps his unwillingness to rival, and also with certain powers, mainly investigators, I would say, investigators or, as it is said gently, explaining. This bill puts a dot over the 'i'. This will no longer be merely an investigation, approximation and support to the administrative work of the courts. This bill tells us exactly what this committee is going to do. So that's what they're going to be called. investigative, para-courtal actions, because decisions will be issued that touch the past, the present, and even the future, the actions of a judicial institution which imposes penalties, more severe penalties than those in any administrative institution. There are three types of penalties that will not be regrettable due to the repeal of the following articles. As a member of the union, I am particularly moved by the fact that this committee will be able to impose fines on workers of their 12-month salary. Yes, such an institution is currently in law, but it is applied only at the request of the prosecutor and is adjudicated by the court. In this case, the committee will be able to impose these penalties on workers in non-codex mode, without liability. There has also been mention of penalties ranging from PLN 1 000 to PLN 1 million against all those who severely violate the ratio of rentals, and of those penalties which do not occur, occur very rarely or in a milder form, against all persons, witnesses, bystanders called to trial, in the amount of up to PLN 30 thousand. That's the committee. In order to continue the thread of powers, he also has enforcement powers, which even the court does not have. Well, she'll be able to enforce... Although there is no indication on the basis of which this execution will be applied, it is registered in the Act. So we're dealing with a new pattern-like creation from the earliest times, but I don't mean to say that Mr. What reminds me of those people that I was often allowed to see back then. But I'll talk about it later. So this is the first charge. Here the legislative authority can theoretically point out its political rivals, deprive them of their various powers and impose fines and other penalties. I don't know if any such solution, even under extraordinary conditions, is known. This committee, of course, takes up prosecutorial functions, which it is not hiding, especially in the field of witnessing. It could be assumed that this is meant to be effective, but it cannot be assumed that the criminal world will raise its hands and report to this committee on the phone itself. If this is actually a criminal world, then it has enough resources. Although I believe that the state should always be stronger In order not to submit to the prosecutor's will, especially the call to the committee's meeting, and the Minister argued that the weakness and inefficiencies of the current solution were involved. These rules say that the committee will violate the individual's right to the courts. The Constitution says a citizen has a right to court. This court is being served by the Commission, which means that it deprives the citizen of the right to the courts, as Senator Shark said. It's a constitutional rule. Even if the committee decides And the Minister spoke about it. Some, say, favorable solution for a citizen, is that the citizen will not necessarily accept it, because he will fear that the legal power of this judgment will be weak, because the right to court should be preserved. Another plea is that certain provisions of the committee, including those relating to the imposition of fines, are unconstitutional because these decisions cannot be appealed against. These are final decisions, so punishing in Poland starts taunting by decrees known from another era, although I remember that in the then courts No, not Polish but Stalinist There was an appeal court just outside the door, and every conviction was called. Yeah, but there were two instances at the time, and there are no penalties for this second instance. Finally, there is a question, also included in the Constitution, concerning data protection. The Commission shall usurp the right to own, process and use the data, of course, without informing the person concerned. And we're not just talking about criminals, we're not even talking about officials. We are talking about ordinary citizens whose data can be traded, can be processed or disclosed even. The important issue of notifying the parties and witnesses of the work of the committee, i.e. calling them to the committee meeting, is briefly outlined here. Although this is not a question of punishment, it is not really possible to ignore its silence. It is proposed here that information on the work of the committee Read more: The calls were published in the BIP, in the Public Information Bulletin, which is the Internet. I've already told you. And it wasn't an exaggeration. In fact, if the citizens wanted to be fully responsible, they would have to allocate their evenings and nights to the action from now on.All Poland reads the informants of Minister Jakie. These provisions also repeal declarations of will, which were the basis for drawing up acts of taking over real estate, converting real estate, of course included in notarial books. The Commission has the right to intervene, to resolve, to challenge such declarations of will, which is indeed a breach in civil law. Finally, the committee... I don't know, I didn't check... The Commission without knowledge, without the awareness of the buyers of the apartments in good faith... [[Voices from the hall: I believe.]] I believe, I'm sorry. But he prefers it. He's going to dig through the notary books, burdening them with various records. It may happen that today's resident Wola, wanting to gamble on his daughter's loan or to collect funds for the construction of the apartment, will find out that his mortgage is contaminated by the unexpected records that the committee introduced. All these decisions are, as I say, discreet, taken away from the knowledge and awareness of the citizen and, above all, with his inability to participate actively, or at least to use the justice system. Well, you will admit that this short record, almost 40 changes... Please note that the Act entered into force in June, and now 40 changes are being made. What is the sustainability of this bill? I think that all this justifies the need for a specific proposal. You've noticed that I'm referring to a story. This is my mistake. I am sorry, Minister, but I am concerned that these solutions will not be effective, that the bill will have to be amended again. This bill is sort of going in the direction that we know of history. In the agricultural reform, the commissioner followed him, the policeman followed him, and finally the writer, because the first two could not write. And they appointed to whomsoever acres of the earth shall fall. Of course, Poland has already learned something. I have such a vivid vision of this type of action in the future: any building in Warsaw will be visited by a team of Minister Jakiego, will judge whose apartment is, and will issue a receipt. The Minister showed that they used to issue receipts. And it doesn't say there's going to be a title, a notarized act. The crew will show you the receipt and say, "You don't live here anymore from now on, 'cause the one who doesn't know where he lives or if he is." And someone else gets compensation. Behind Minister Jaki's crew Oh, yeah! You will be followed by the editors of Holeck and Clarenbach, who will show this all over the television, and at the end will be the tax collector and tax enforcer. I'm afraid of it, and that's why I'm repeating my motion to reject the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the Members... Sorry, not yet. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? Senator Fedorovich was the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Actually, it's a question to the minister, but if it's not this mode, I can refer it to the Senator of the rapporteur. Explain to me... [[Which one?]] [[Which one? The Senator's Breaking?]] Senator Cracks. I'm not a lawyer, of course, but I'm in charge of legal work. Following the amendment of the law, the citizen who will be evaluated by the committee will have no right of appeal. How does that work? There won't be a possibility of any cancellation... And that's the first question. Is that even possible, and is it in accordance with any law, with the constitution? Second question. Quickly, too. Some things a common citizen doesn't understand. What does it mean that the committee is equipped with prosecutorial powers in administrative proceedings and no longer in criminal proceedings? Does that mean... I guess it's just that they're supposed to lead, but they can't punish... Please explain these two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u105	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! That's how it is. Prosecutorial competence in administrative proceedings These are the competences, as I said before, of a soft, orderly nature. They are aimed at bringing the committee to its meeting, but there is no way that the committee requests different kinds of decisions, as the prosecution does, e.g. applying to the court for custody. These are typical prosecutorial powers in criminal proceedings and we don't apply them here. This is a typical issue of the construction of this committee, that it in some sense borrows certain competences from other traditional authorities of the State. You can argue with that, you can argue with that, but... [[Well, then I'll ask, 'cause it's important. So far, has any parliamentary or senate committee had this kind of authority?]] The Sejm Committee of Investigation has much stronger powers in the area of such hard competences in criminal proceedings than in the Warsaw Commission, because this committee mainly moves within the area of law and administrative proceedings. [[The first part of the question was that there would be no appeal...]] Oh, yeah. [[So if I'm punished and I think I've been wrongly punished, that means I'm not gonna be able to appeal anymore?]] Here only to a limited extent this appeal has been lifted, but it can be said that here is also an appeal such as on the basis of the same institution, i.e. the committee will once again be able, as I understand, whether at all... Then why don't I tell the Minister about it so I don't mess up here. In the case of all the most important decisions which the verification committee issues, an appeal to the court is served And it's been emphasized many times. A reference to the Supreme Administrative Court and the Voivodeship Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u107	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u108	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Rulewski as rapporteur for the minority proposal. [[Please.]] Mr. Senator, I have listened very carefully to your speech, but I must admit that on one point I am confused about the beginning of your speech. I wanted to know if you were the Senator of the Parliamentary Civic Platform Club or not, because I couldn't figure out what you were saying at the beginning of your speech. I'd like an explanation so I don't make any mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u109	There you go, Mr. Senator. But don't repeat all the arguments for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u110	No, no. At the moment, I represent the authors of the minority proposal, which is an element of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, and of course I have a delegation to appear in this committee and represent the parliamentary club of the Civic Platform. As you know, this is not always respected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u111	Thank you, Senator. Are there any other questions? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u112	I've got a question for the senator. Are you a senator? [[Are you Senator Bang?]] He's talking right now. I'll wait. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Vice-Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz: No. It's about the senator who's breaking up. I'll have the Minister in a moment, so please wait calmly. Now the question for the senator is breaking.]] I'm sure Senator Pak can hear you by now, so that... Senator, you've justified this amendment of the bill with the chronicity of the proceedings pending before the committee. In turn in the media I hear that the committee acts so efficiently, quickly and so much makes decisions, that it makes me believe that the length of the proceedings before the committee... Well, you've got to decide what to do, then. They're either chronic or they're not. Now the question, Mr. Senator, is whether you were discussing something at the committee meeting. It is a parliamentary project. I call it the Law of Which, because it sounds so nice. We know what's going on. This is a parliamentary project, more than 70 Members have signed up to this project. The question is, did you discuss it at the committee meeting about why it wasn't a government project, Minister? After all, there are so many important and important elements out there that I can't imagine looking at the list of all the Members who signed, that this is their initiative. I think it's a government initiative. It's just a quick path. Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? Thank you. [[Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u113	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We did not discuss this matter so that you could possibly redirect this question to the Minister. As for this length of time, if we pay attention to a certain standard of work of the judiciary and the Warsaw City Hall in previous years in such cases, we will notice that here we are dealing with a huge acceleration and the restoration of elementary justice. So that there is no doubt about the effectiveness and effectiveness of this committee's work The pace is good and the effects are good. But it could always be better. It seems to me that the problems that the amendment is trying to deal with are mainly due to the fact that it is an institution previously in Polish almost unprecedented, new. It is well known that such institutions always face different kinds of difficulties in their operation in practice. I think the main point here is that it's the committee that doesn't have enough powers of some kind. The Commission's relations with the various institutions also had a long-term effect. Well, I guess it's better to fix it than to wait for something to happen. And in the case of the parliamentary project, the legislative path is certainly faster, so I, as a senator, can only presume that this path has been used to deal with these matters more quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u115	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u116	Senator Cracks. Mr. Senator, you're right, the message path is fast. Most of the resolutions and laws you carry out follow this path. As a result, it's mostly statutory... I don't want to say "bubble," but it's kind of like that. Because I consider another record to be bullshit, I'm asking you to give me a good explanation. What's with the fines? This fine is set by the penal code, I understand, by the court. And here was a fine of PLN 3 and 10,000. And now you've changed it to ten, thirty thousand. The Lord was gracious to argue that there are some wealthy people who can pay more. Is Mrs. Grażyna, Senator Shark... Mr. Senator, you're a lawyer. How would you describe... When a woman comes, who is the director of the department and who earns 5,000 zlotys a month, but for example. Her husband makes 100,000 zlotys, then will she pay that fine? Is such an act even possible? Is it possible to interpret this? And if so, who will interpret it? I would like to point out immediately that I am in favour of complying with the law, in favour of placing myself at meetings of state institutions, if they have appropriate powers. But how do you interpret it? It's as if you've come to interpret such a fine... And why, e.g. isn't it $5,15,000? Well, that's a reasonable line. 30 grand is some kind of unimaginable money. Maybe for senators it's some kind of money, but for normal people it's not an imaginable penalty for not being present, especially since, as you know, there's no description of what's justified and what's not, and it's very easy to challenge... E.g. You know what kind of voice I speak today, but I don't have a medical certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u117	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u118	Senator, before I answer that question, I will return to my earlier question, because I have already consulted with the Minister very quickly. It was precisely the previous state of law that again had appeal to the committee. But the committee thought it was actually a fiction. There is therefore an appeal to the court at this time. So that I think it's a change for the better, that it's correct. So that's the answer to that earlier question, because I couldn't explain it before. Now it's about the amount of those penalties. Well, I can say what the Minister said at the committee meeting, and what I see in the Seym's explanatory memorandum of the law, i.e.: the proposed amendments provide for an increase in the maximum fine for unjustified failure to appear at the committee hearing or for leaving the hearing without the permission of the party, the witness and the expert. So this is... Well, it's only gonna be in those cases. Projectors thought that the current amounts were too low Apparently, there was a particular problem with that. We, Senator, look at the whole issue of Warsaw's reprivatization, see above all such a phenomenon that under the wings of the justice system there were just mockery of the law, mockery of justice. And we have said this many times during the process of this applicable law, we have said that here the total failure of justice and the public administration, as well as the applicable law, have taken place. So, since the committee, in less than a year of its proceedings, decided that she was also meeting with such a phenomenon and that the ailment of punishment is practically zero, one has to act on it somehow. I don't see any other way than just raising the forks of punishment to such a level that these penalties are actually ailing. Their height is a deal, isn't it? You can discuss whether it should be 15 or 30,000... The question of judging them is also a matter of... [[And who's gonna decide that?]] Well, I think it's a committee, but as for the rules that it's going to follow, it's hard for me to say something about it, because I'm not a member of this committee and we didn't discuss that at our committee meeting. So I'd rather ask the Minister. I can say as much as is in the parliamentary statement and as was said in the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u119	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski, then Mr. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. I understand that this bill is in line with the experience of the verification committee so far. Tell me if there was any broader discussion at the committee meeting about the achievements of this very valuable initiative 'Cause I think it's a great idea and the effects are great. But was any statistics presented during committee meetings? If he doesn't, I'm already saying I'm gonna ask the Minister to come forward with the work of the verification committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u121	Mr Senator, I will say immediately that at the committee meeting, the Minister did not particularly brag about it, because it was not as if the subject of the work, and we were dealing with these specific amendments, but of course you are the Minister, so you will present this work as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u122	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u123	Senator, the committee has the opportunity, as we have just mentioned here, to impose a fine on the side of the case, on the witness, on the expert for not attending the hearing, but I understand that there is some dualism here. Although I didn't get it exactly. That he may also apply to the competent district attorney to order detention and to bring in the requested person. So either he can impose a fine, or maybe he can also, as I understand it, apply to the District Attorney for forced lead. It's two separate punishments, I understand, either yes or yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u124	There you go. The question was, are they separate... Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u125	Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna answer that question right away because there's no... That's the one on the committee we didn't do, as far as I know. I don't know if they're separate punishments. I think the Minister will say something about that. I'm sorry, but I'd have to dig into those documents to answer, and I don't have the conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u127	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'm ready to answer your senators' questions. Do I have to say two words about the amendment or not? [[There you go. That depends on your decision. You can tell me, can you...]] So here's what I'm gonna say. This amendment solves many of the problems that arose at the interface between the committee's activities... All these problems we want to solve have a common denominator. We want to make it quicker and more effective to help people who need it the most. The High Senate will be polite to draw attention to the provisions concerning e.g. that the committee will now have the authority to stop executions in situations where we know that there has been an irregularity in reprivatisation. This is an absolutely necessary recipe that thousands of people are waiting for. Your Senate, today we have a situation in which the committee's decision is that the reprivatization was simply linked to common crime, and the brutal cleaning of people continues, because I have to say it with great regret and I will say it. We do not have any help from the Warsaw City Hall in such situations. The Warsaw City Hall is doing everything it can to prove to us that we are not effective, so even if it can help people, it does not help them and allows the house cleaners to continue cleaning these houses. That is why we need this provision and other provisions of this project very much. Another example is the provision concerning the introduction of a temporary administrator into real estate. Why? Because we're dealing with This is already the practice of the committee's activities. With the situation that there is a final decision of the committee that the reprivatization was flawed, and that the people... Often it is a narrow group of people, because most did not endure this fight with house cleaners, but there is a group of people who are still fighting, you can cite examples of streets of Nowogrodzka, Poznańska, Marszałkowska and many others. And thanks to the fact that the committee is making a decision that reverses this original decree decision, the decision to establish the right of perpetual use, the town hall could act, could already really help these people, e.g. change rent rates or take legal care of them. Often simple things are enough, such as activity at meetings of the housing community, so, such simple things. But City Hall doesn't do that. In my opinion, he doesn't do it because he wants to show: look, the committee doesn't work effectively. So people, people's interests are less important than to show: look, they don't work effectively. That's why something that I think should be... something that we shouldn't regulate legally, which should be part of ordinary decency, we have to regulate. Therefore, we say that if it is the decision of the committee that the reprivatisation was unlawful, then the town hall has a duty, not a right, but an obligation to introduce the temporary administrator into the property and restore the previous rent until the settlement of the dispute, possibly if the person lost the tenement and those traders complained to the court, then return with the old rent until the court has settled the case. Why does it matter? This is because, as you have heard, you may have heard, and if not, I, the Senate, will remind the tenants who testified during the hearing of the verification commission and were asked to present their problem, what are the methods of this cleaning of the tenement, they said that for example. one family raised the rent to the amount of PLN 8,000 per month. In the old tenement they paid several hundred zlotys, and then they were supposed to pay eight thousand zlotys a month. I'm afraid this is the rent that none of us well-replaced people would be able to bear. And, of course, interest is charged on it, the bailiffs sent there, families with children are harassed, etc. Over and over and over again. Therefore, we consider that the old rates of rent should be introduced until a final decision is reached by the court. I believe that this is an absolutely necessary solution, for which many people, thousands of people being harassed by cleaners, are simply waiting. These are probably the most important elements of this amendment, at least from my perspective. I'm open to your senators' questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u128	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Is anybody checking in? Senator Rulewski, Senator Jackowski, Senator Florek, Senator Shark. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u129	Minister, a question. I haven't raised that problem before because... But I am so gonna say, full of disbelief, and I'd like to get confirmation right now. In Amendment No 41, which concerns Article. 40, it is actually said that the commission's decision restores old housing, leases, if they were regulated with the city. As you can imagine, the possibility of returning a tenant who, let's assume, at worst, lives somewhere in the family... How is he supposed to go back to a building that's either been rebuilt or half of which isn't there, or where some store is in his former apartment or in dozens of other apartments? How can this physically be done? And second question, milder option. This sale was made, cleaned out, as you say, this tenant house, and he got an apartment from some assignment. Do you think this is a situation... Let's just say that this assignment was beneficial. Does this mean that he has to give up this favorable thing for the worse? What does it look like to restore these old lease relationships?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u130	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The senator's first question was what I imagine a person who was wrongly thrown out of a building would suddenly be restored to it, if he lived somewhere else. Well, I think I'm crazy, but I can imagine. And I'll tell you more. I believe it is a duty of the state. I think it's a duty of the state, because if such harm was done, then it is absolutely necessary... [[And here's the deal.]] ...the kind of tenant to bring back there. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] My imagination embraces it. And as far as the senator's second question is concerned, I'd like to have such problems, but I'm afraid they're gone. But I wish they existed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u132	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. Because it is impossible to abstract here from the work of the committee which the Minister chaires, I would ask for some statistics on what the committee has achieved. I think this piece of work is impressive. It's one of my questions, a request. And the other one is about that. If anybody who claims to have any material, or evidence, would report to our offices that there were any irregularities in the reprivatizations that were carried out in the capital city of Warsaw, then whether they were sent to the verification commission or, if so, in what mode or correspondence etc.? Well, these are common questions that come up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u134	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Mr. Senator! As far as the answer to the second question is concerned, send it to us, of course. We as committee have the ability to respond only where we find some administrative irregularities, because we act in such a way, using generalization. If this were to be a problem of common crime, then, of course, it would be a task for the prosecution, because it is possible to use material criminal law here. But we, as a committee, are, of course, ready to send, after any preparation, such proposals further. The committee's work. It seems to me that the committee's first hearing took place about five months ago, maybe six months ago, which means it's working relatively soon. During this time, the committee, which is indeed a new institution in the Third Republic, conducts 170 different types of proceedings. The Commission has already repealed reprivatisation decisions of value, as we have today calculated, 670 million. This is about, plus minus PLN 670 million. That's the value of the reprivatization decisions we've removed. Some of them... Of course, after such a period we are fighting in appeals for the maintenance of these decisions, and we are also fighting for the reversal of derivatives. And here we have some successes, I don't hide, because for example. the first 2 decisions of the committee were decisions concerning one part of Tough Street and the other part of Hard Street. These are real estate that was worth it. At most, Mr. Director will make me feel better. Approximately PLN 150 million. At the moment we have a valid entry in the eternal book that the owner of these properties is the capital city of Warsaw. The re-privatization decision, the wrong one, is already repealed as a final decision, and the capital city of Warsaw has invested funds in the budget for the reconstruction of the educational establishment in this place. In such a short period of time, to be honest... when we met here in the Senate to talk about the Constitutional Act of this committee, I did not think that such effects could be achieved in such a short period of time. But there's more to it than that. We did it, for example. Win... This is a civil court precedent, the first one, there wasn't one before. It concerns the fact that the owner has been changed in the perpetual book from the company, the commercial law company to the capital city of Warsaw in the case of real estate on Sienna Street. This is part of the most expensive part of the property in Europe at all, as some say, the Defilad Square. And here we have a very big success. Namely, the change of owner, even though... This decision was difficult because people who received a positive decision to reprivatize the property had already sold the property to a company governed by commercial law. Many people have said that there have been irreversible legal effects, although the committee has found so much evidence that... we have proved that this transaction has not been carried out in good faith and so far we have been successful in this case, which is very difficult from a legal point of view. I think the lawyers understand that when the property is sold further, and this is still a commercial law company, it is a very difficult situation in legal terms. In addition, we have some decisions behind us, e.g. concerning the entry concerning the street Chmielna 70, where in part... This is where the famous skyscrapers were supposed to stand. As for the part we have an entry of the city, and in part we are still fighting people who have obtained a reprivatization decision. One of these people is already in custody in Wrocław. We're fighting. And I'm hoping that there will also be a chance to turn the owner into an eternal book. Besides, the board's still working. The work of the committee, apart from such very measurable decisions, i.e. the repeal of reprivatization decisions, of the values which I mentioned to the High House, in addition to the effective fight against derivatives, i.e. the inclusion of these properties in perpetual books... In addition, we were able to help many people on individual matters, because we, without having this provision, when we saw that there were doubts, and people were cleaned from tenements, sent letters to bailiffs with applications to stop executions. And in some cases, it was a success. We really managed to give people at least a moment's rest, we managed to bring at least a moment's rest. The third element of the committee's activities or the task that has been put before us is to discover all these mechanisms related to reprivatization, to show pathology. And here, too, I'm going to say immodestly, quite successful. I mean. almost every week, when we reach for documents, something new comes out that the public did not know about before. In the case of the famous building at Noakowskiego 16 we managed to find documents which for 15 years could not find any institutions in the country. The creativity of these young people who have been dragged into the new department has made documents that seem to have been lost forever, found. And the committee's decision is very well-argued. I would also like to say that all decisions of the committee have at least 100 pages of justification, while in the traditional decision of reprivatisation there are one and a half pages of justification. Each decision of the committee shall be built up by opinions of external experts, whether by experts in the valuation of real estate or by experts in the field of graphics. Each decision is additionally built up by the testimony of the parties and witnesses, which in administrative proceedings always has, as the High Senate knows, a rather subsidiary character. This is not considered as part of the traditional administrative procedure. It's like something extra in the appeal fight. In addition, many discoveries have been made. During the committee's work, it came to light that one of the important members of the reprivatization process... Let me give you an example. I could talk about it for hours, but I'll be brief. One important person from the point of view of reprivatization admitted that she was a pole. Somewhere else we discovered properties purchased in Florida. We found some historical documents that could not have been found before, in cooperation with various international institutions. That's the kind of thing that really... You can also look at the issue of Łochowska Street, i.e. reprivatization of the spirit. That was a lot of stuff. And finally, the fourth element. This was our fight over the last months, the fight for the place of the verification commission in the Polish legal system. This is a battle which is victorious, because in this case all courts in Poland have already spoken except for the criminal court. And they all recognized the place of the verification commission in the Polish legal system. The Supreme Administrative Court, the Voivodeship Administrative Courts... No one knows about this yet, I'll tell you this for the first time. Yesterday, the review committee won a dispute over the fine imposed on President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz in front of the Voivodship Administrative Court. This is the information from yesterday, the sentence from yesterday. I've already mentioned the civil court. In the voivodeship court we have a winning dispute over the seat of the committee in the legal system. The Supreme Administrative Court and the Civil Court also spoke in the proceedings of the perpetual accountant. The only case we lost in court is a case that also confirmed the place of the verification committee in the Polish legal system. This case concerned the fine previously imposed on President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz. The court annulled the decision on the fine, but in the explanatory memorandum it pointed out that the President was required to appear at a committee meeting and that the committee was a state institution to be recognised, but the legislator, as set out in the explanatory memorandum, should specify more precisely who could be called before the committee. It was a dispute about whether you could call a natural person or an organ. In the amendment we specify this according to the guidelines of the regional administrative court. These are four areas where the committee can really boast of success. Plus, I'll tell you, we're working full-time. Our activities are fully transparent. All the hearings are public, and I am convinced that the next success of the committee will be that certain people who see, as we are now clearing all the reprivatizing thieves, in the future, will no longer think of stealing so rudely. People like that already know there might be a committee like ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u136	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u137	Minister, the examination... [[What about me?]] [[You'll be next.]] It's me. It is, of course, very difficult and complicated to examine documents and eternal books, Minister. Alone as an assessor whether the surveyor has repeatedly had the opportunity to study such books and I am aware of the problems there. In connection with the amendment, I would like to know... You here, Minister, are talking about successes, about PLN 670 million related to the reprivatization decisions issued by the committee, and about the fact that this is a great success. I would like to know whether there are already such decisions of the verification commission, which are final and final, from which no appeal is due. If that's the case, could you tell me how many are there? What were the decisions against which there was no appeal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u139	Mr. Senator, we've been working for six months. If you know the Polish judicial system, then you know that such decisions cannot be made. The calendar indicates it. There are many final decisions, but there is no appeal, because it is physically impossible. Of course, different actors appeal against our decisions. The claims merchants are unhappy. I am sorry to note, too, that the president of the city is appealing from our decisions that are positive to the city, which, to this day, is incomprehensible to me. In a few cases, it would probably be easier if the president of the city didn't appeal the decision. Maybe by then, we'd have final decisions today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u140	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u141	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two questions. As a general rule, you need the right to use data on a person obtained pursuant to Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a and Article 1a 14, and process them without the knowledge and consent of the data subject? Why do you need the authority? Second question: Minister, what are they supposed to do in this case... What solution do you propose when some of the premises are covered by pre-emptive sales contracts? Will the right to return result in the termination of these agreements? And what about the mortgage agreements for the acquisition of these premises? These are serious legal effects. Is there a solution here? And the third question. In order not to bring this up again, I will ask immediately if you have a plan to prepare a government project relating to reprivatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u142	Thank you. [[It's all over the country, of course.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u143	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Senator! With regard to the project on the overall solution to reprivatisation, covering the whole country, such a project was prepared in the Ministry of Justice. His co-author, Prof. Zaradkiewicz, is sitting here. I think this is a very good bill. We are after extensive consultations because such a large bill had to go through large consultations. These consultations were generally positive. We have taken into account a lot of comments and now this bill is waiting for the decision of the permanent committee, so it is at the final stage of the government legislative process. I hope to see you soon, too. There was a question here about the processing of personal data. Dear Senator, if we thought we had to ask, for example. the trader of claims, if we can use his data, that would mean that the committee's work will be paralyzed. The Act on Access to Public Information states explicitly that you can process personal data with the consent of the person whose data is processed... [[Exactly.]] ...unless In such cases, among others. This medicine is used in situations where it is used. The Act will indicate exceptions. We are just pointing out such an exception, because from the point of view of the committee's work it is absolutely necessary. I think there was a middle question. Would the senator be kind enough to recall them? [[I was talking about this credit and pre-emptive contracts.]] Oh, mortgage loans, yeah. Well, the committee's been making such an assumption from the very beginning not to hurt third parties who were so unlucky that they were somewhere in the middle of reprivatization. And that's consistent. I would like to tell you that among the people who bought apartments after reprivatization are very famous Poles from various areas of life. We always consistently protect their personal data and we will continue to do so, against this amendment and after this amendment. The only exception will be the situation in which we will see And it will be evident that someone acted in bad faith, but such solutions are, of course, permitted by the law already in force today. As far as mortgage protection is concerned, this is exactly the same situation. There's one case we've dealt with before. We have great doubts as to whether this mortgage security was granted in good faith, because when the committee opened the proceedings and secured the perpetual books, the traders suddenly secured the property for 80 million, thinking in my opinion that it would deter us from taking care of this property. It's in my opinion. The opinion of the experts is also complete to invalidate this transaction as a transaction carried out in bad faith.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u144	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you a question, Minister, because in answer to my question, you said that certain conditions must be met so that this citizen, who believes that there have been irregularities, can turn to your committee. I can think of a slightly hypothetical option at the moment, but I know that this has happened. Namely, the property was returned to the heirs of the owner, and it was a property which was not fully built in 1945, for which there is evidence, for example, in the form of a famous photoplan, which was made in July 1945 and which you are probably using... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] ...and the inventory of Warsaw real estate carried out by the Office for Reconstruction of the Capital. These are such short records, they were in the archives of the capital city of Warsaw, at the moment... Otherwise, this is the Warsaw State Archives... At the moment I can't remember, the name has changed, anyway it's on the Curly Wheel. And now I am. If this is the case, the tenants were expelled in total, this reimbursement was made some time ago, is that in your opinion the basis for initiating proceedings before the verification committee? It's about a situation where this phrase occurs in nature, one to one, i.e. It's just that the property was issued, and she was obviously built, settled, there's documents for that, there's a reporter's office... She was settled later. It's just... what's the big deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u146	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! High Senate! It is such that, for us, the key element in deciding whether the committee can initiate proceedings, not so much checking but then revisiting, is the very reprivatization decision, whether it was defective or not, and on what basis such property was returned. The circumstances mentioned by the senator are important, albeit more important to us is this decree process. That's why I'm so presumptuous... I'm sure this case is good enough for us to check it out, but if we have any reason to start an exploratory investigation, I'll be able to answer Mr. Senator's question as soon as I see all the files of the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u148	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u149	Minister, don't you feel the pressure of being a judge of your own? Namely because you declare your willingness to run for President of the city of Warsaw. I do not remember exactly the composition of the committee, but are other committee members also involved in the election process in Warsaw? And the question is, as I say, nailing: if you are officially notified by the party structure as a candidate, will you resign from the committee? Second question. TV images show that these tenement houses, in which, as I understand them, house cleaners, were insanely neglected. The question is whether you are investigating whether the tenants of these tenants fulfilled their obligations to the city and paid the charges. I'm not talking about the sums raised by the owners, I'm talking about the amounts set by the city. Third. Did they appeal to the court? As I know my city, they wouldn't have to leave these apartments unless there was a disaster, and, I see, there was a disaster. And the fourth question you haven't addressed... I mean. I didn't ask him directly, but I thought you were gonna say something. We have two legal institutions for tenement cleaners at the moment, i.e. We don't, the second institution is designed. So there's art. 191 k.k.a. with the possibility of imprisonment for up to 3 years, it has been approved since 2,5 years, and this is what you propose, which is a fine from 1 thousand to 1 million zloty. How do we get out of this: the prosecutor will initiate this procedure and at the same time you will impose a fine? In any event, both measures may not be effective.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u150	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! As to the first question of the senator, whether it is right that someone is a candidate for the president of the capital city of Warsaw and sits on the committee... [[He even presides over it.]] He's the presiding officer. Oh, that's so... Here's what I'm gonna say. The Commission shall take its decisions in a vote. The value of my voice is exactly the same as any other member. As far as I'm concerned, there's only one candidate so far, i.e. co-candidate for the president of the capital city of Warsaw and this is the candidate associated with the party, which is called the Civic Platform. Therefore, if we were to develop such a practice, it would be good for someone to set an example first. Then we can consider whether other candidates should follow this good example as well. That's the answer to the first question. What the... [[Excuse me, and you'll be... excuse me, Minister. If you're an official candidate, will you resign?]] Well, like I said, I'm not trying to be a candidate right now, and I don't know if that's possible at all. I have a job ahead of me, and we're just gonna think about it then... But I'm telling the senator that right now, I'm not pushing for another presidential candidate or vice president of the city who sits on the committee to get him to resign. That's why it's hard... If I don't apply such rules to him, why should I apply them to myself? And the party, as far as I know, doesn't pressure him to quit, either. The senator asked me about... [[Runaway 2 permissions to...]] Oh, yeah, I remember now. These are two different cultivations, two different legal orders. Other criteria are set out in the Criminal Code and other criteria are set out in the Administrative Code. This happens according to 2 different procedures, so that these are 2 different worlds. For the committee's activities, it's not gonna have... I mean. records in the Code of Criminal Procedure or in the Penal Code, which means in this almost typically material, no... For us, the writings of the article... I think it's the article. 189d of the Code of Administrative Procedure, not the Criminal Code. [[Thank you...]] [[And were there lease agreements, or did the tenants pay any rent at all?]] I'll tell the senator: I don't have the guts to have people coming in front of the committee who, for 10 or 15 years, are fighting to live in a tenement so no one can throw them away, ask if they're paying the rent. I don't have the guts. But the other members of the committee, if they want, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u152	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions, so closely related to the text. The first is related to Article. 26. So far it has been that the beginning of the procedure, I would call it, the suspension of the pending proceedings was the committee. It's still like that now. So if the committee gets information that there's an administrative proceeding before an administrative or general court, it's asking for a suspension. And now in the new version of the article. 26 of course, it is that if the committee takes information, it applies for suspension, but earlier it is otherwise formulated. I mean. There's a mouth before that. 1, in which it is said: "In the event of the initiation of an exploratory procedure before the authority, etc., etc. I'm gonna have to ask you a question. And then, they're suspended. The question is, does this mean 'Cause it's an important issue. That the authorities, i.e. the courts before which administrative proceedings are pending, which deal with Warsaw real estate, are required to follow the work of the committee and if proceedings are initiated before the committee on some Warsaw real estate, they automatically suspend the proceedings? It's kind of the beginning of this procedure here. That's one question. And the second question concerns Article. 14. In this article. 14 is a little bit different at the moment. 3. He imposes on the prosecutor, when the chairman of the committee requests him, an obligation to hand over the necessary documents from the case file to the committee. But now, what's the case? This refers to ongoing civil or administrative proceedings concerning reprivatisation decisions. The question is this. If it's in court, it's not the D.A.'s. It's the court. Can the D.A. issue all the files of the case, or just the ones he owns in this case? Because there's a difference. I don't know if I've made myself clear. [[It's bright.]] It's bright.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u154	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Of course, the prosecutor can only issue the documents he owns. So much for art. 14. And as far as art is concerned. 26, it's actually a little bit like the senator said, but otherwise it can't be, and we've proved otherwise it can't be. Namely according to the current article. The 26th Act, which establishes a committee, is the practice that when a committee initiates any proceedings, all other proceedings that are taking place in a given case should automatically be suspended. The point is that there should not be a situation where in the same case two different institutions make different judgments. This is an institution known in administrative law. The Commission shall apply the provisions of Article as a principle. 26 and how it initiates an exploratory procedure, it informs all institutions that they are to cease their proceedings in this case, but And here it is one reservation. It is about those institutions that we know are taking action on this matter. Sometimes it can happen that some institution is dealing side-by-side with derivatives, resulting in reprivatization, and we do not know that. Therefore, in order to establish legal order, we inform about this in the BIP. Of course someone can say what, then all courts are supposed to follow BIP every day? Oh, no. But if it happened, let's hypothetically assume In a situation like this, we wouldn't know that there's a side thing going on, for example. Throwing out the tenant or the rent, and we've settled this case... So if there was such a case, we would settle it, and at the same time there would be a case in another court, so that there would be no doubt about which decision has priority and which sentence should be applied is... That is why such information is included in the Public Information Bulletin. So you could say this: we take this more as a complement, not as a rule, in case such situations hypothetically arise. We usually know about all the proceedings that are pending before other courts, because that's just from the files. But here we're protecting ourselves so that the committee's activities are complementary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u156	Thank you. Senator Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u157	Minister, actually Senator Rulewski, asking a question, asked part of the question I was planning to ask. However, I would like to refer further to the article. 14a about the processing of personal data without the knowledge and consent of individuals.... 'Cause you're saying it's mostly about house cleaners. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: No. It's all about everybody.]] I do. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: I set an example.]] I know, but you said it was mostly about house-cleaners. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: No, I didn't say that.]] But my question... I wanted to ask you another question. Would it not be better, therefore, to apply the law in force in the case of house-cleaners, a penal code imposing a penalty, as it was said here, up to 3 years, and not to apply a fine that would not be so drastic for them? Is there any possibility of applying these 2 penalties together, i.e. detention, detention by the prosecutor and fines? I'd also like to ask you a question like this. What's the situation... Because the state, when working in committee, you must always pay attention to the role and function, but also to the justice of the tenants who have resided or are currently living in these disputed premises. What will happen in this case if there are already so-called in the premises that will be taken over. new tenants who, after taking over the building, become communal tenants, so you can't get someone back to owning a place that's already been occupied? What's the big deal? Is it possible to reverse this legal situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u158	Thank you. There you go... [[But without hurting people, of course, because that's what we're talking about.]] Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u159	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! This situation is impossible, for a simple reason: because if someone already after a positive decision of reprivatization bought an apartment in a given building and did it in good faith, then of course no one can deprive it of this apartment, and absolutely no committee will do it. We're just talking about hypothetical situations where a property... The Commission can return the property when there are no irreparable legal effects, i.e. when the resident can be restored to the property in such a way that the third party will not be harmed. Therefore, such a situation as in my opinion is impossible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u160	Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u161	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like a little more... Because here Senator Štark has asked the Minister about the reprivatization bill, I understand that it is the so-called law. large law And I understand that there is work going on in the government right now, and it will go to the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, and it will be addressed to Parliament. So I have a question: is there any predictable date, any plan about when this bill would come into force? And the second point: how will this bill have to do with what happened in the United States at the moment? I do not know whether President Trump has already signed a bill that has come out of the US Senate, and also concerns property issues and in a sense also concerns the territory of the Republic of Poland. How should we look at both of these issues? Perhaps the Minister would like to speak on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u162	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! As for this large bill, we as the Ministry of Justice in this case have already done everything, i.e. We have written and prepared, I believe, a very good quality project, a consultation, taking into account all the comments that could be taken into account, through the work of all possible committees and subcommittees during this legislative process. At the moment the bill is in the Prime Minister's office, then it will be in the hands of the Marshal of the Sejm first, and then, I hope, the Marshal of the Senate. And how and how quickly it will be processed is no longer our responsibility. But I'd like it to happen as soon as possible. What impact will the possible adoption of this law have on the situation related to this resolution of the United States Senate? In my opinion, it's essential. If so. large reprivatisation law will not be accepted by Poland, it will occur, I think, a big threat to our country, in particular with regard to real estate, after which there are no heirs And there are some such properties in Poland. I'm looking And that's my assessment. The sooner we adopt this large reprivatisation bill, the better and more effective we will defend ourselves against possible external claims.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u164	Thank you. Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u165	Minister, I'm just going to refer to this question that I had previously addressed to Senator Pęk. My point is to impose a fine of up to $30,000 on the side of the case, a witness or an expert. Does the imposition of this penalty preclude the possibility of simultaneous application to the competent district attorney with a request to order detention and forced delivery, whether it is possible to impose and impose a penalty here, and apply for prosecution? Are these penalties excluded, so that if there is a lead, there is no penalty, and if there is a penalty, there is no lead? Do they exclude themselves, or can the two penalties be applied in total? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u166	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u167	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! To be honest, if someone is brought to justice, then, of course, the penalty will not be imposed on him, it seems obvious to me. But can this be legally combined? I'd have to consult with the department so as not to mislead your senator. I don't think... But maybe we can explain that, sir, if you don't mind, in a minute. [[Yeah, yeah, 'cause it's important.]] [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski...]] Oh, I'm sorry, I already have information that you can still... [[Can I connect?]] Yes, you can. [[Director of the Department of Administrative Law in the Ministry of Justice Kamil Zaradkiewicz: You can connect, you can. And punishment, and gain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u168	Oh, yeah. Punishment and lead. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two more specific questions relating to the text of the Act. It's based on art. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 comes, I'd call it, new ways to end an exploratory procedure. They are amended here... but above all 2 new points are added: points 2a and 3a. I am referring to point 2a, which refers to the repeal of the reprivatisation decision and the suspension of proceedings in the event of an obstacle to the continuation of proceedings and the adoption of a decision. What are these cases, specifically, from practice? What is the issue, especially with regard to the provision on protection in the form of an entry in the perpetual book? Because this provision is repealed as if it were from a vending machine in the case where, after the case has been discovered, paragraph 1, with the maintenance of the decision or, paragraph 4, when the decision will have irreversible effects, or point 5... but there is no mention of this point 2a. The question is, should such a provision be repealed as if by law... Will such a provision simply be written into the everlasting book, and it will hang there in a nutshell? Because point 2a states that further proceedings may not be conducted, but at the same time does not determine the substance in the sense that this original decision repeals, but... But the question is, what's next? This is the first specific point about this point 2a. And the second one, which has a slightly different nature and partly refers to the committee's meetings, but also here in plenary, concerns, what about the buyers in good faith, i.e. those who bought a place in a particular building on the other... that is to say, secondaryly, and are owners of this place. And now the question. The State here complements these points, these provisions relating to the termination of the exploratory procedure, with such wording: in whole or in part. It's about the reprivatization decision. The question is whether the provision in point 4 should be supplemented in the same way. The point is that the decision will have irreversible legal effects, but also in whole or in part... Because it's not a hypothetical situation, that there was a decision to reprivatise, and then a given company, which, let's call it, received this building after the action cleaning houses, etc., renovated the premises and sold them. And now I am. Locations that have been acquired in good faith... This should apply to point 4. And the ones that weren't sold... Well, here's what we're talking about here, pkt. 2. The question is whether point 4 should be supplemented by a similar provision, i.e. about a similar addition that the decision in whole or in part... Then we'd have symmetry. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Point 4 of which article?]] It's all about art. 29, on the effects of the termination of the exploratory procedure. Paragraph 4. So this is about explaining point 2a in paragraph 2. 1, the effect on the deletion of the reservation in the perpetual book, and in point 4, namely whether it should be supplemented by the possibility, as it were, of contracting decisions in whole or in part in cases where there is an infringement of the law, i.e. where it cannot be repealed due to irreversible legal effects.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! As to why we are supplementing the article. 29, i.e. these main reasons in point 2a, and we give the committee the opportunity to repeal the decision, but not yet to make a decision on the substance... There are situations where the fact that the decision was made in violation of the law is no doubt, but there is a problem with whom the property would possibly be issued. Because it's not always that property goes back to town. It may turn out that e.g. It is that there are rightful heirs, but they are fighting among themselves, who is the heir of the person who had the right to claim. Then the committee can't make a decision. It just has to wait for a typical succession. And about the art. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1, point 4, it seems to me that there is no such necessity here, because if the committee finds irreparable legal effects, it does not rule on the substance, it simply manages compensation. That's why there's no need.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u171	Thank you. More questions, Minister, no questions asked. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you.]] Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that this discussion, which has already been partly discussed in the form of questions, has shown that the verification committee s, and that is why I asked the Minister about its achievements, turned out to be a very relevant undertaking of the Polish state. On the one hand, I agree with the opinion that this is an emergency measure, but on the other hand it must be taken into account that the situation, at least in the capital city of Warsaw, was exceptional as a result of some negative practices. It was therefore necessary to set up a verification committee. Contrary to what her critics said at the beginning, questioning in general the legal and other aspects of its functioning, the committee turned out to be a necessary body, a body with an income. This institution of the Polish state, as rightly so. That's what I think. Mr Jak has just said, it will also be preventive, it will show that even if any irregularities or criminal, even criminal, are not immediately captured and dealt with by the justice system, this does not mean that such a situation will never happen again and that such cases will simply be swept under the rug. And from this point of view, the activities of the verification commission are highly assessed. To be honest, it was a surprise to me that there was a witness who didn't want to attend committee meetings. It can be said that in some ways this has led to the need to amend this law. I believe that the scope of this amendment is a consequence of the experience of the verification committee so far. It is absolutely justified and necessary. I am convinced that this amendment will come out of the Senate tomorrow, after the vote. Of course, it is not possible to concentrate only on one side of the whole issue, although the issue of reprivatization in a special way concerns Warsaw because of this lex specialis, which was the decree of Bieruta collecting property to the previous owners of the property in Warsaw. It was a decree that caused a huge confusion in Warsaw. I'll give you two examples. Please note that the area proposed by the City Council of Warsaw for the location of the monument to the victims of the Smolensk tragedy was connected with the legitimate claims of people who believed that this property, on which it was proposed... Well, they have legitimate claims. And a second example. I do not know if you know, but there was a new building of the Sejm committees, the one at Wiejska Street, and it stands in an area to which there are also legitimate reprivatization claims, which have not yet been settled. However, in my opinion, this shows the scale of the problem, because it is usually the rule that if the public authorities are building a property or are the owners of the property or offer it for further trading, there is usually no legal doubt about such property. This land may be expensive, it may be unattractive, it may have various disadvantages, it may have different advantages, but there is no doubt about the legal side of such land. However, in the case of Warsaw, and also in the case of some other areas in Poland, the disorder of this issue in 1989, when this matter had to be settled... I am not now prejudicing how, because this is an area for discussion, but it was necessary to legalise the ownership relationship, because it is the foundation of a healthy economic life, also a healthy social life. This issue should therefore be regulated. I am glad that the government is working on a reprivatisation law, but on the other hand I hear signals from different backgrounds that express their views on the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Justice. I would not like to enter into this discussion in detail at the moment, because this project is not the subject of our deliberations, but I would like to express my conviction that solutions will be found, which will first of all ensure that the harm caused by the communist authorities through post-war nationalisation and expropriation regulations... The point is that all victims of these communist actions should be treated identically, so that there are no groups that for some reason are in a better position than other groups. It seems like it's so... What's it gonna be? To what extent? In what mode? How much? This is a separate topic for discussion, but it seems to me that this should be the main reason why there should be no further situations which will cause perturbation of the judicial nature not only in Poland but also in international institutions, because This problem also has an international dimension. That's why I asked the Minister about this bill that the US Senate adopted. I do not know whether President Trump has already signed it or not, in any case the opinion I have read shows that the signing of this law is a formality because it was adopted unanimously or almost unanimously in the Senate. High Izbo! Back on the ground of Warsaw, I would like to say that it seems to me... I would like to thank the Minister for his determination. After all, he was under fire, criticized for this original law under which the verification committee was established, but he simply showed that this could be carried out, it could be done effectively and that the Polish state had instruments to restore the fundamental principles of the rule of law where there was a crime or irregularity. And I would like to thank the Minister for that. I would like to say that the detailed questions I asked regarding the entire course of reprivatization in Warsaw... Of course, it happened with varying intensity. Let me remind you that the first, largest, group of reprivatization decisions were the decisions of President Święcicki, if I remember correctly, during his presidency there were probably 700 decisions. We're talking about the mid-1990s. It was the first group, a very large group. Later this was carried out with varying intensity, but undoubtedly the increase in the number of pathological or even criminal activities occurred after President Alexander Kwasniewski vetoed the reprivatization law, which was taken in the times of the Solidarity Election Action. Some of the people in this room took part in this work... [[No.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal. [[The coalition government.]] Yes, sir. Unfortunately, this bill has been vetoed. Oh, that's too bad. I'm gonna rephrase it here. Because this problem would have been solved 17 years ago, at least from the statutory side, and the problems that the Polish state now has, so that we would not have. But it happened when it happened. There are also opinions that vetoing the law has allowed or intensified action in the area, let's call it organised crime, because such opportunities have been opened up. Once again, I would like to express my joy that, at least in this respect, I'm talking about the review committee. This committee is working and is socially well-judged. I judge her very well, too, and I think that the vast majority of observers judge her very well. At the same time, I would like to express my hope that the reprivatization bill, which I believe is objectively needed, regardless of what anyone thinks about what happened in 1944 and about acts, nationalization decrees... Forests, agriculture, Warsaw real estate, industry... There was a whole range of regulations that caused people with so-called. unfair class origins, which were the owners of... In fact, they were millions of Poles, not some narrow group of the richest people. They were owners of some houses, mills, larger farms, real estate in cities, shops, etc., etc. They were millions of Poles who were deprived of their property. And of course this was not only social and economic, but above all political and ideological. The truth about that time has to be expressed. And today, when drawing up a good reprivatization bill, we need to look at it in the context of the decommunization process and the remnants that are in our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u173	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that in the context of the verification commission, most of us feel some kind of discomfort, because we realize that the tool that discovers some terrible pathology to us is extraordinary and in some sense does not fit into such a normal understanding of justice and the legal system. But an extraordinary solution was simply needed here. As my previous speaker said, the situation was not only exceptional. She is unique, and this, unfortunately, is not only in Warsaw, although in Warsaw in a special way, for reasons that Senator Jackowski has already mentioned. Therefore, a solution that was, as it were, faced with the urgent need to resolve the problem of screaming injustice was simply needed. And glory to all of this, and especially to Mr Jakim, for the fact that this tool has been launched and that it works effectively under extremely difficult conditions. You could say it's all the time. acts somewhere on the border of law, but within the framework of law, within regulation, as confirmed by judgments of courts which in one way or another refer to the activity of the verification commission. I think that if the case only had such a dimension, it would be an extraordinary or extraordinary tool, acting effectively, that should actually satisfy everyone. But unfortunately, the situation here has a few additional dimensions. First of all, it is not only that the system of justice has failed, which should be able to ensure that justice and order also prevail in this respect. But it turns out that crooks, thieves, and harmdoers in such a worst sense of the word are in the vast majority of the luminaries of the law. People who should either in one way or another uphold justice or participate in this system. In a completely pathological way, they used their abilities, their abilities, and they sat around hurting people in a way, you can say, screaming for some kind of justice. And there's another one at the end, perhaps even worse aspect of this whole thing. Because if it stopped at this point, that the system did not cope with it and that people who should care about the law in Poland did not meet their vocation, then perhaps all of this could be done without the emotions that are now accompanying it. But somewhere in the end, politics got involved. And it's actually something quite awful. Because it, in my opinion, has a very important and very bad effect on how people see it all. Because, unfortunately, instead of seeing what is being said here clearly positive as a way of correcting pathology and harm, many people see it as a political struggle. Yeah, but there's really only one reason for that. This is the one witness who doesn't stand trial at the courthouse. And automatically, this witness is unfortunately the witness who caused the whole political upheaval. It's a shame this is happening. Because I think it's a legal solution, which is the law, and also what we're doing with it right now, i.e. this repairing, again, what did not work just because of all the things we are talking about, but above all because of this policy, in some sense also contributes to the fact that the perception of the law, well, is not the best. Seeing justice isn't the best thing. May all of this be made right quickly, and hopefully the restoration of the legal state and justice of the people concerned will lead to the fact that the perception of law, the justice system will simply improve. I really hope so. Of course, I strongly support not only the act of this law itself, but also this law that corrects or improves the functioning of the verification committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u175	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Who else?]] Oh, and Senator Grodzki volunteered to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I did not plan to speak on the Warsaw Laws, but I was concerned about the opinion which came here during the discussion that this amendment was intended to apply to the whole country. [[He's in the study.]] He's in the study. The law prepared by the Polish government should be compatible with European Union law. And I don't want to talk about the matter of the Warsaw Act. Because the fact that justice should be restored is that if someone is harmed, the harm should be corrected, it is obvious and I completely agree with my previous speakers. But the appointment of extraordinary bodies, I remind you, in Russian it is a Cheresque, always seems a little disturbing. I, despite the reform of the judiciary, still believe in the independence of the courts in which such, but nevertheless the efficiency of the Polish justice system. And I would prefer that these matters be dealt with by the Polish courts, by the Polish judicial authorities and that there be no need to appoint extraordinary bodies, because with extraordinary bodies is a little bit like matches, which, if we play, we can start a fire. What's my point? I speak as a resident of Szczecin, I speak as a resident of the so-called. The Recovered Land, a man born there, raised and educated. The Foreign Minister, Mr Chaputowicz, says that war reparations are not an intergovernmental agenda, that Mr Mularczyk is about to speak and says that these are harmful words, President Kaczyński says that we are not changing our position. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be aware of one thing: if, for the whole country, we introduce reprivatization acts in line with EU legislation, do not be surprised how the Lands Recovered will begin to report the heirs of the property remaining there after the war. This concerns 1/3 of our country. I hope that this will not happen, and I hope that my words will only apply to hypothetical matters, but please accept such a word of warning from this Senate speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I'd like to speak as a senator. Sign me up. Minister! High Izbo! Well, my previous speaker, Senator Radziwiłł, said that the committee is operating on the border of the law. I agree with him, yes. The Commission, the committee's formula is not because it is on the verge of law that such a committee has been set up for the first time, but because it is neither a committee of inquiry nor a committee of inquiry. I would understand it as if it were a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which acts like a parliamentary committee of inquiry, under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Nor is it a simple administrative commission because it has much more powers, i.e. it can block legal proceedings, it can reverse final decisions, so it has much more competence than any other committee that can be called administrative. At the same time, this amendment that responds to problems As I understand it, that's why there's this amendment. In addition to the powers that this committee encountered during its operation, it confers on that committee, which the prosecution had so far had. I believe that the powers so far are sufficient, and there is no reason for a committee of this kind to receive any powers of prosecutor. It's a psychic. I'm looking forward to the next amendment, an amendment that will grant some kind of judicial authority. I mean, if an administrative commission can be given prosecutorial powers, why can't you give legal authority? Well, is that how we're gonna move forward? Yes? Yes, the committee has been politicized and is politicized And here Senator Radziwiłł is right. But that's not why she's politicized, because her actions are largely about the functioning of the city under the direction of the current president of the city, just because the PiS has made it a propaganda political tool. After all, the President is not known only as the President of Warsaw, but every time I see a television broadcast, I hear and read that she is above all Vice-President of the Platform. But it's about her functioning as president of the city! So who did this politicization? If the head of the committee and its creator, Deputy Minister Jak, declares that he will run for President of Warsaw, and today he also says that he does not know when he will become official... that he does not know if he will resign from the chairmanship of this committee or not, then this kind of declaration reinforces the suspicion that this committee is a tool of Minister Jaki on his way to the presidency. I'd like to hear it, Minister... I mean. I believe that if you are a formal candidate, you should resign from chairing this committee. And the fact that you're saying that because others don't quit or you don't point at others, saying they should quit... I would reverse it: you should set the example as chairman of the committee, not expect this example from others. If you make that decision, you can also tell others that they should resign. And that would be a clean situation. Unfortunately, at the moment, the situation in this respect, i.e. as if using this committee for their political purposes is not pure and it is difficult not to have such suspicions. So I have at the end an appeal to the Deputy Minister to think this over and decide whether you want to continue to be head of the committee or if you want to be a candidate for President of Warsaw. Because it can't be reconciled. Thank you very much. That's where the list of speakers was... [[But the minister's checking in.]] Yeah, yeah. Wait a minute. I'll be right there. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I also inform you, for the record, that Senator Czesław Ryszka has made his speech to the minutes. And I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Martynowski, Senator Sztark and Senator Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u178	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Maybe I'll start with an anecdote that's real, very real and very timely. Since one of the senators mentioned buildings recovered as a result of the reprivatization of claims by traders, he mentioned one of such well-known buildings in Warsaw and the insolence of those people who traded these claims, I will tell the High Senate that there was little missing, and those traders of claims, including one of the most famous ones, would recover the building of the Central Bureau of Investigation in Warsaw. Another had claims about the Ministry of Justice building. That was close. There would be nothing left in Warsaw, almost there. Well, that's all that was left for someone to get back the Palace of Culture and Science and Central Station. Honestly, the way you look at it and think about... Well, more than six months ago, I was in the Senate, and I was shot at by allegations of unconstitutionality, inefficiency. It was said that it would be many years before the first decision was made. And look at it in retrospect. Yesterday, we were investigating a tenement on the street. Łochowska 38. Imagine if the verification committee hadn't been formed, this property would have been returned to a 140-year-old. 11 families would be kicked out without a wink on the pavement, including people who have lived in this tenement since... Well, one person testified before the committee that she was born there during the Warsaw Uprising, still lives there today and has no place to move out. Her family, in turn, rebuilt this building, connected all the installations there, lived there since the 1930s, still in the times of the Second Republic. If the committee hadn't been formed, this person would have heard: out! The town hall would return this building to the person who was last seen in Warsaw in 1946. Yeah, it didn't bother anyone. A lawyer came to see you, who was the parole officer of this person, and he said he was coming on behalf of a gentleman who would be 140 today. He only came there by the way, it was his temporary work, because he was generally the Director of the Military Counterintelligence Service during the Civil Platform government. He said this: I am temporarily a curator of a 140-year-old person, and I would like to ask if you would be kind enough to give me back this building belonging to this 140-year-old person. At City Hall, they looked and said, "Well, if that's what you want, it's okay, go ahead. And that's what this country looked like. I would like to say that I have little satisfaction, but I have not listened to many of the voices that have been voiced here, critical voices and even offensive in some cases. Really, I remember those words that fell from the platform here, which also personally touched me. Those were really bitter words, much worse than the ones that rained here today. And it turns out you can't give these tenements to ghosts. Your Senate, we're not updating this bill so I can have some more powers or, God forbid, prosecutorial powers. After all, it is enough to look at this project to note that this change really refers to one right, the power to lodge a complaint, and in administrative proceedings. This is the competence of the prosecution in administrative proceedings, which we are already de facto... The committee's on it anyway. If we find a specific administrative procedure in which there is opposition from the prosecution, then we can't necessarily pretend that there isn't. That's why it's really just scaring, completely detached from what's in this project. And what I'm trying to say is that we're here to... This committee is here to show that the Polish state can win against the mob, with an organized crime group. This crime group was insolent enough not only to reprivatize ghosts, but also... We were dealing with the Hożej Street case. Imagine, High Senate, that a tenement that is worth, as some say, 50 million or more, was bought for 50 PLN. And the town hall said: a, 50 PLN, there is a free market, there you go. And that's the situation that the verification committee is still dealing with. And I haven't mentioned how you treat ordinary people yet. I've already talked about this in the Senate committee meetings, but I'll tell everyone to hear it again. Older people get fed up with fecals, specially we have letters like this. Cockroaches are allowed in there to get rid of them and so that new owners can make money. It's about the people who lived there... In the case of a tenement building at ul. There are 16 people who have lived there since 1936 and remember everything. They rebuilt this building after the war. So? Suddenly there comes a man who didn't live there even a minute, and says "won," because I want to make money. That's what we had. The criminal group was so insolent and so acted. We're here today... This is our main task, not the local elections. You're saying Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz is my opponent. What kind of counter-candidate? As far as I know, she's not gonna run at all. There's a job ahead of us. The Polish state was humiliated by a criminal group that so mastered the legal and institutional system that the old institutions simply couldn't handle it. They didn't stand a chance with her. If any of you were trying to win against this group of smart guys in an old system of various courts, curators and some administrative and legal proceedings... anyone who entered this field was losing to them. They had everything so contained in this system that nobody had a chance with them. That's why the only chance to win against this crime group was to create something new that would be disconnected from the old institutions, because there was no one there to say it again. No chance at all. This mafia simply kicked and humiliated the Polish state every day and every hour. Such decisions were in Warsaw, as you know, 4,000 and the President herself, now forced because she did an audit, she said... What did she say? That there was a criminal group and that according to its interpretation 70% The return decisions were bad. We're dealing with these return decisions and I don't know if anyone's seen the real heirs. You don't see much of them. Usually the same people are there all the time. One of you has a claim to 60 or 70 properties. One of those famous lawyers. And he comes to the committee meeting and pretends he doesn't have anything. I'm poor. I only came to the committee meeting because I didn't want to pay $3,000. He speaks so impudently and doesn't answer any questions. That's what it all looks like. And there comes a time when you have to face it. We equip the committee with further tools and instruments, because this is the first time we want you to be a few steps ahead of the criminal group, not the other way around. It's not the group that beats Poland, it's the country that's after the crime group. That's why it's an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u179	Thank you, Minister. We have concluded our deliberations on this item. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I remind you that tomorrow we will proceed with the examination of the point of consent for the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Rogut. Information covered by the "confidential' clause may be discussed in this section. This point should therefore be considered following the adoption of a decision on the confidentiality of the deliberations. I would like to inform you that after the proposal has been voted, the secret part of the session will be held in room 217. Only senators and staff with access to classified information of at least a confidential clause will be allowed to attend this part of the meeting. During this part of the meeting, no notes can be taken, image and sound recording and communication via multimedia devices. Therefore, you will be asked to leave in the sitting room all documents, folders, purses and devices enabling the recording or transmission of images and sound, communication and other devices enabling the disclosure of information. It's about cells, iPads, tablets, laptops, watches, etc. [[Watches? Oh, come on.]] Before entering room 217 in honor of the secret session, you will have to be checked at the detection gate each time and, if necessary, also checked by other instruments used to detect these devices. [[Personal inspection.]] [[And the prison service will be there?]] If you have cells, tablets, watches and other electronic devices, you will need to deposit them. The senate staff will be on duty outside room 217. The presence in the section of the secret session will be confirmed on a separate list of presences placed in front of room 217. Detailed information will be provided to you by electronic means today. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the fiftieth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws will take place today half an hour after the announcement of a break in Room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will take place today 10 minutes after the opening of the session of the Senate in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-18-senat-54-2.u181	Thank you. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 16 minutes 42]]
