ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Marta Kubiak, Krzysztof Kubov, Daniel Milewski and Jarosław Szlachetka as the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the Secretaries will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Krzysztof Kubów. Protocol 69. I consider that the session of the Sejm has been adopted in the absence of objections. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, print No 2904. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, - amending the National Tax Administration Act and certain other laws, - amending the Law on medicinal activities and certain other laws. These projects are, respectively, prints No 2901, 2905 and 2903. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, - specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019. The designs are in prints 2914 and 2915 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and certain other laws, - electronic invoicing in public contracts, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. These are printers 2918 and 2923 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws, - the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, - about the Self-Government Road Fund. These are printers 2896, 2895 and 2898 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports: - on the government draft law amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance, - about the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia. These are printers 2927 and 2925 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. A group of Members submitted a draft act on the National Day on the occasion of 100. Anniversary of Independence Reclaim, print number 2931. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the occasion of the 100th National Festival. Anniversary of Independence Recovery, print number 2931, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 345 Members voted. The vote was 198, against - 72, with 75 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the draft resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia and the draft act on the National Festival on the occasion of 100. The Independence Reclaim Anniversary. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Formal conclusion. The formal proposal is submitted by Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! We are dealing again with the scandal, not the democratic package you have announced. I'm bringing it in on the basis of an article. Paragraph 184. 1 for a break, convening the Convention and restoring the point, presenting current information on rising energy prices, fuels, growing imports of Russian coal, because this is what Poles ask. They're paying more for energy today, more for fuel, more for gas, and we don't know why they have to company your policy in this case. [[And you make more money.]] The issue concerns the current information reported by the Civic Platform club. You're reporting a counter-project today. The Poles have already shown you a red card for arrogance and breaking rules and laws. [[That's not true.]] Mr. Marshal! Please return this point in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u3	Thank you, sir. There's a request for a recess. I'll order a recess, but let me remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the Sejm makes the decision on this matter, not the Marshal of the Sejm. I'd love to make that decision myself. [[But somebody decided.]] I'm reminding you of art. Paragraph 194. 4, which reads: In the absence of a uniform opinion of the Senior Convention on the matter referred to in paragraph 4. 3 - this type of cases - the election information is decided by the Sejm upon presentation of the case by the Marshal of the Sejm. So before the proposal, I kindly inform you that there have been two proposals for current information and we will have to decide which one we will consider. I'll talk about it in a minute. We're gonna vote for a recess right now. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. It is a matter of adjournment until the end of the day. 13, according to the formal request. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 351 Members voted. 154 votes against - 196 and one Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, two eligible entities, i.e. parliamentary clubs, have submitted proposals on the subject of current information to be discussed at the current meeting of the Sejm. In the absence of a uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, the current Sejm must vote. According to Art. Paragraph 194. 4a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will select the current information which will obtain the majority of votes. This means that this information will be selected, which will receive more votes in favour. That's how we vote. I would like to remind you that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice reported to the Minister of the Environment on the "Clean Air' programme, while the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club reported to the Minister of Energy on the worrying situation in the professional energy sector. We are voting on the current information on the Clean Air programme. I'm telling you, we're gonna vote on both. The point is for the Sejm to decide which information will receive more votes in favour. Who among you is in favour of selecting the current information on the Clean Air programme will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 351 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 156, and no one abstained. We proceed with the vote on... I'm not saying which one yet, am I? I'm not saying which one, we're just memorizing that result. We vote on the next piece of information. We are voting on current information on the worrying situation in the professional energy sector, with particular attention to information on the increase in electricity prices, the scale of imports of energy coal from Russia and the state of investment in the construction of a new power block in Ostrołęka Power Plant. Who among you is in favour of choosing this information, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 351 Members voted. 159 voted against - 192; no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has chosen the current information on the Clean Air programme. The agenda items of the current sitting of the Sejm will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. The formal proposal is submitted by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm requesting a recess. The proposal is for the President of the Council of Ministers to present information on the situation in LOT's Polish Airlines at this meeting of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! All of Poland is watching what is happening in this state enterprise. Yesterday 67 people were fired for taking a strike, protesting... [[They refused to do their job.]] ...which they are entitled to in accordance with Article. 59 (1) (a) 3 Constitutions. This is a situation which requires us as the Sejm to deal with this matter. It's about the specific employee situation that's taking place there. For a long time, people who claim to be employed in this company have been fired. Through the situation that's taking place there, the PiS government is showing how they respect workers' rights, [[Applause]] how eagerly she is to celebrate important anniversaries, and how little she cares about a particular man, employee and employee. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u5	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u6	I'm requesting a recess and a government briefing on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u7	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. Let me remind you that according to the article. Paragraph 184. 2 Formal requests may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting, and the request made by the Member shall not relate to the agenda. So, according to the article. Paragraph 184. 3c, which reads: The Marshal of the Sejm refuses to vote on a formal proposal if he considers that the proposal does not meet the requirements of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I refuse to vote on this proposal because it does not concern the current sitting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws (Prints No. 2860 and 2918). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary will read the announcements. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u8	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - Health - immediately after the end of the previous meeting of the Health Committee, ca. h. 11.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15.15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 6:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: promotion of healthy physical activity in the society of Nordic walking - h. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Police - the meeting will be held at the Police Headquarters at ul. Puławska at 3 p.m. 14, - Parliamentary Team of the Polish Red Cross - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 17. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u9	Thank you very much. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda. In that case, I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Szymańska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws from print No 2860. Seym at 69. meeting on 2 October 2018 in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. At its meeting on 17 October, the Public Finance Commission considered this project. Amendments were tabled during the meeting - 18 amendments - which were welcomed and considered after the discussion. The Committee on Public Finance therefore requests the adoption by the High Sejm of the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u11	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position towards the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws, prints No. 2860 and 2918. I must point out that the bill is a very large set of rules, containing more than 140 articles and covering more than 400 pages. To a large extent, this proposal introduces tax regulations in connection with the guidelines of the Council of the European Union Directive 2016/1164 of 12 July 2016 laying down provisions to combat tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market of a given country, so-called. ATAD Directive. This project is part of a package of several already introduced laws by the Law and Justice Government aimed primarily at sealing the tax system, in particular as regards income taxes, both PIT and CIT, and increasing the revenue of the state budget. It should be noted that the project introduces inter alia. the long-awaited exit tax, i.e. the unrealised capital gains tax. It aims to counter tax avoidance by transferring assets, tax residences or the entire permanent establishment to another country. This tax will cover both companies and individuals. Such a tax or tax already exists in several European Union countries, so that it is not new that such taxes are being applied. The project also introduces a legitimate obligation to report tax schemes. The point is to avoid aggressive tax optimizations. In particular, tax advisors, legal advisers, bank workers and experts will be included in this reporting requirement. This information, these reports will be submitted to the head of the National Tax Administration. What is important and worth noting, in this project, the government proposes a very low tax, a 5% CIT rate for eligible IPR income. If an entrepreneur introduces such solutions, in research and development, in manufacturing, developing, improving his production, he will pay only a 5% tax. The proposal also introduces new rules on taxation of crypto-February trading, so taxation is expected to operate from 2019. It also clarifies and simplifies transfer pricing rules. During the discussion in the committee there were many doubts and comments on the need for clarification, clarification of many provisions, and, as I said, there are more than 140 of these articles. The Law and Justice Club therefore proposes 14 amendments to clarify, clarify the provisions of the Act. As regards the remaining issues, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the draft Print Act No 2918. I'm handing over amendments on behalf of the club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u13	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel to present a report to the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Law and some other laws, print no. 2918, previously - no. 2860. The most important regulations proposed in the project concern income taxes, i.e. one group, and, the second group, issues subject to the Tax Order, i.e. general tax law. There are other changes, but these certainly belong to the most important ones. The draft provides for the introduction of rules on income tax on exit tax in the income tax laws. This tax is to be imposed on taxable persons in the event of a transfer of assets to another country or a change in the tax residence. It will be subject to both legal persons and natural persons. These changes are, to some extent, an implementation of the so-called. The Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive counteracting tax avoidance, however, the projector decided to tighten the tax conditions under the ATAD Directive. First of all, natural persons have been taxed, whereas this directive does not provide for such taxation. In addition, the proposal provides for taxation regardless of whether emigration is intended to abuse tax law or is dictated by other considerations. The project's distribution into instalments may be considered incompatible with EU law. A better solution would be to defer the direct tax, which would consist in the obligation to pay it only at the time of the actual disposal of the assets. Such a solution exists, among others. in France, Spain, the Netherlands, Germany and Norway, it should be followed. I will put forward an amendment in this regard. A number of rules on taxation of income from virtual currencies, preferential rules on taxation of income related to intellectual property rights or changes in the transfer pricing sphere deserve a positive assessment. A large group of changes envisaged by the project are changes in the rules of the Tax Order. Unfavourable for taxpayers are among others. changes to the general clause, the interpretation of individual, the additional tax liability. The project also introduces a reporting obligation, which is to be imposed on tax advisers, lawyers, legal advisers and other entities. This is the implementation of the Legislative Disclosure Rules Directive, but here the projector has also gone further than the Directive. Of course, there is a problem here in relation to the mystery guaranteed by the rules applicable to certain professions. Tax advisors and legal counsels are very negative about these solutions. It is worth noting that they were not consulted with them. The Minister said earlier that they were, but it turned out that they were only consulted assumptions, not solutions. Many of the project's solutions are very low, especially in language. There are problems with understanding many regulations, and about how this project was designed from the language side, it is best to say that our Legislative Office said that a few hundred commas will have to be inserted there - several hundred, please. In the explanatory memorandum to the project we read that its aim is to simplify tax law. I think he certainly doesn't simplify tax law. Given that we are dealing with a very low linguistic and technical quality of the project, that there was no consultation that from the point of view of the ATAD Directive there is no need to adopt it today, we are in favour of this - I propose - that the part that concerns ordination, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As requested by tax advisors and other professional groups, it was excluded from this project and was perfected as a separate project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u15	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza to present his speech. I don't see your MP. We therefore move on to the speech of the representative of the next club - Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u16	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws. Compared to the submission, which we had the opportunity to make at first reading, there was no significant change in this submission at second reading, and we still have the situation that under the guise of sealing the tax system, this law significantly worsens the legal situation of entrepreneurs, in particular through adverse changes in the Tax Order. This bill, among others. introduces a new entitlement to the Head of National Tax Administration, allowing for the repeal of individual interpretations issued if the facts or future events described therein are subject to the conditions set out in Article. 14b § 5b Tax Order. In addition, the Act introduces a new regulation on the establishment of an additional tax liability, so-called. sanctions, in case of a decision to apply the double taxation avoidance clause, which may also indirectly result in additional burdens for businesses, but will not eliminate aggressive tax optimization. Once again you are pouring out a baby with a bath, you are introducing rules that do not serve anything, which serve only and only the deterioration of the climate around entrepreneurship in Poland, because so far, when we are talking about decisions using the double taxation clause, they have been issued two. In addition, as regards issues related to interpretations, so-called. security opinions have also been issued only two. And now you want to force entrepreneurs to replace individual interpretations with protective opinions, with an individual interpretation being a fee of 40 PLN, while a protective opinion is 20 000 PLN. zł. Once again, at the expense of the Polish entrepreneur, instead of improving tax law, simplifying tax law, you are introducing further regulations which are significantly confusing this tax law. In addition, you are in breach of the obligation of professional secrecy to report tax schemes. You introduce this duty to experts, counselors, lawyers. Which of the entrepreneurs will now come to the legal counsel, the lawyer or the expert asking for tax advice? No. However, the State does not distinguish between aggressive tax optimization and correct application of tax rules in its law. In your opinion, only lawyers, lawyers or tax advisors act as part of aggressive tax optimization, which is completely untrue. As was the case here, these provisions should be rethought, re-examined, and it is best that they should not be adopted in this law. And the tax, which is a new additional charge, the exit tax, so-called. exit tax. Once again, there is a situation where once again you do not distinguish between the situation of tax optimization and the choice by the trader of more favourable tax conditions. In addition, you are introducing, using the concept of implementing the EU directive, adverse solutions beyond this directive concerning the taxation of exit tax of individuals, and you want to introduce these negative solutions for Polish entrepreneurs into our legal system a year earlier than required by the directive. Instead of encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in Poland, introduce additional reliefs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The state once again introduces solutions that will cause the escape of capital from Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u17	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present the position of the club concerning the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on Tax Ordination and some other laws contained in the Seym printing no. 2860. There are no revolutionary changes after the committee's work on this project. The most important solutions for simplifying tax law according to this project are the revision of transfer pricing rules, as well as the reduction of bureaucratic and administrative burdens for entrepreneurs, in particular small and medium-sized, preferential taxation of income generated by intellectual property rights, the introduction of specific arrangements for economic operators to purchase sets of claims, as well as the introduction of a concession for cooperative banks making contributions to the Institutional Protection System, the introduction of an alternative way of taxing eurobonds and the introduction of separate rules on the taxation of virtual currency income. The proposed amendments also include the introduction of: mandatory disclosure of tax schemes, which is a partial adaptation to the EU Directive of 25 May 2018 - this solution is intended to allow a precise and effective fight against aggressive tax optimization - changes in withholding tax under both income tax laws, changes in the general clause against tax avoidance. In addition, the project provides for changes concerning the introduction in the catalogue of corporate tax exemptions of the flat-rate income tax exemption paid by the National Bank of Poland in connection with the statutory task which the central bank carries out in the public interest under the Act on NBP in the field of foreign reserve management. In addition, the proposal extends the scope of the exemption for investment funds. As regards transfer pricing developments, it is proposed to reduce documentation obligations. There is an increase in the documentary thresholds, after which the obligation to draw up transfer pricing documentation arises. This solution will significantly reduce obligations for most taxpayers, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The mechanism for setting thresholds will also change, which will be much easier to apply. The deadlines have also been extended. The time limits for submitting a statement on the preparation of local transfer pricing documentation and the submission of transfer pricing information were extended from 3 to 9 months after the end of the tax year. In turn, the deadline for drawing up the group transfer pricing documentation will be even longer and will be 12 months after the end of the tax year. The project also includes facilitations and exemptions for documentation. This is the exemption from the obligation to prepare transfer pricing documentation for transactions between national entities fulfilling certain conditions. In addition, it was possible to fulfil the obligation to have group transfer pricing documentation by using directly the documentation drawn up by another group entity, including in English for this purpose. As a result, taxpayers who receive such documentation from a group will not be obliged to draw it up themselves. There could still be a lot of solutions here, while I focused on important ones. They actually go hand in hand with these demands that entrepreneurs raise, and I think it's worth working on the project, for which we as a parliamentary club are in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u19	Thank you very much. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign in? I can't see. So I close the list. We begin with Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club. One and a half minutes to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u20	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! When I look at this draft law, where it's about exit tax, it reminds me of this last episode of Nicodemus Dyzma's Kariera when Dyzma lets go in Kunicki's socks so he can leave the country. Well, maybe it's a pretty sketchy example, but you're opening a certain gate. It's just a question of indicators that you're going to pick, but you're going to open the gate. On the other hand, there is also a 5% CIT tax in this project. And I ask you here the question: Isn't it simply worth lowering the tax strongly, that people try to collect money to us, rather than trying to stop them from fleeing Poland? This is a fundamental question, and that is something you should consider, and not necessarily put in place any more weird financial operations or legislative operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u21	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the Law and Justice use certain actions related to the introduction of EU directives to put their brilliant ideas into the bill. Recently we had the opportunity to vote - we were, of course, against - the appointment of an ombudsman. At the last European Congress of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Katowice, the representative of the Ombudsman said that absolutely these regulations and these laws are wrong, should not be prosecuted at all, should be withdrawn from the Sejm and should be further worked on. This shows what kind of shell institution the spokesperson is because if his very negative opinion is not included at all and for a good cause is a fig sheet of the Law and Justice actions, then the question is: Why did you even appoint such an advocate if he can't do anything? You should have called Obietka, 'cause they say Obietek can do anything. Then it would have been wiser. And I have a question: Do you, therefore, have the opinion of the ombudsman concerning this law? What have you done with her? Did she ever show up like that? Did you hide it under the rug? Why is there no information at all about the fact that there are critical words not only from the business community but also from the Ombudsman who was appointed by the Prime Minister from among the Members of the Law and Justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u23	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In fact, what is happening at the last Sejm meetings is a few amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act at one Sejm meeting. No one knows what's in this bill anymore. And this law is particularly unfavorable, written in a very bad, very difficult language. The concepts introduced raised doubts about tax advisors, lawyers. What are the taxpayers supposed to do? After all, the law must be understandable to all, clear, not to raise doubts, especially since it imposes additional obligations on taxpayers which they must comply with, no one can explain that they did not understand. I think there's gonna be some kind of tax interpretation. I wanted to ask if the Ministry was making any suggestions to bring these laws closer to taxpayers. Otherwise, they will not be able to function at all and no one will know how to implement this law. I believe that without the additional activities of the Ministry of Finance, this project should not be a law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Piotrek... Peter, I'm sorry, sir. Peter Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u26	Your Marshal, my pleasure. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The devil, as always, is in the details. The adoption of the law will result in the issuing of new implementing rules by the Minister responsible for public finances. I would like to ask you about these provisions, because on the one hand, more business-friendly solutions will be applied, but on the other hand there will be some safeguards for the financial interests of the State Treasury. These two functions here, let's say, they're playing. Therefore, two questions arise. First question: When can we expect these implementing rules? And the second point that someone has already raised here today, but I would also like to know: How do you see the role of Mr Adam Abramowicz's ombudsman in drawing up these guidelines? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. He spoke and asked Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice. And now, please, Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u30	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this submission a significant part, very many changes concern the Tax Order. The question is how much of these changes are in line with what is contained in the draft of the new Tax Order drawn up by the General Tax Law Codification Commission. I would like to remind you that in 2015 the Civic Platform and PSL government adopted the principles of this law, for more than a year these assumptions have been very laborious in the project of the new Tax Order. She's stuck somewhere, and at the same time you're preparing and presenting regulations that, if I remember correctly, are contrary to the principles of this law. The question is whether you agreed these proposals with the codification committee. That's the first question. The second one concerns exit tax, because I do not understand where the idea came from to pay tax on hypothetical profits came from. The question is whether such a solution has been introduced in a European country, because, as far as I know, we will be the absolute exception if [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is about European countries in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u31	Thank you very much. And I ask you to answer this and earlier questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions, I will try to address them, to some I may have to answer in writing. Mr Kobylinski's first question on the 5% CIT we are introducing with regard to intellectual property. This is a package that contains solutions called IP Box. Isn't it worth reducing taxes hard instead of reducing taxes in these specific areas? In our tax policy, we assume that we are lowering taxes in those areas where it is needed, and we see this need for intellectual property, because this is something that is dragging the economy along. That's why we want there to be a directional relief. It is in line with the OECD guidelines, in line with the assumptions set out by the European Commission, other countries have such reliefs, too, so we have decided to introduce them. On the other hand, in another law, but within the same package, we present a 90% CIT tax for small CIT taxpayers, i.e. for companies that do not exceed 1200 000. Euro turnover per year. This is another proposal to give a little support to small companies that are at such a stage of development that it would be good for this stage to survive and to develop. That's why we want to, and that's why we're putting down the stakes. And we think that these are solutions that will positively affect the Polish economy. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz asked about the ombudsman's opinion. As far as I recall, his opinion was not influenced, he did not exercise the right to make an opinion within this legislative process, but the opinion was made by various stakeholders, I think, first of all, entrepreneurs. Many confederations of entrepreneurs, business organisations presented their opinions and we took them into account in part. Mrs Zofia Czernow asked if she was concerned that the law had to be understood. Of course this is true, this is the way it should be, and I would like to point out that a very large part of the issues that we are standardizing are technical issues that concern professionals and professionals. And second question: Are we preparing proposals for bringing these rules closer to taxpayers? Yes, I promise that to all tax provisions, to all solutions that will enter into force from 1 January, to the extent that we are introducing new solutions on the tax base, rates or method of payment, we will prepare special tax explanations provided for in the Tax Order. Applying them will protect taxpayers from the negative consequences. We intend to do this in cooperation with business organisations and among others. A spokesperson for business rights. It seems to me that this is the role such an institution as the institution of the Ombudsman should play in the process of creating or applying the law. I therefore answer Mr Piotr Pyzik's question as to whether we are providing a role for the Ombudsman. We will certainly issue tax explanations to these laws and we will certainly benefit from the experience of the ombudsman. As regards the implementing rules, those implementing rules which are mandatory will be published on 1 January 2019. Janusz Cichoń asked how the proposal for changes to the Tax Order, which we are now looking at, is to work on the new Tax Order. I am a member of the codification committee for the Ministry of Finance and our cooperation with the codification committee is very good. This is a reliable committee of experts who doesn't have a political cut, but has an expert instinct to prepare a good project. And this good design is on the table, it's being processed. It is currently being consulted in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. We agreed with the Codification Commission that this project will be enriched with solutions that we are introducing on an ongoing basis into the existing provisions of the Tax Order. I understand that maybe not all new solutions are in line with the assumptions of the new Tax Order, but it must be remembered that the assumptions of the new Tax Order, if I remember correctly, were prepared in 2014 - at least some of them - were not yet there. She was, for example. The tax evasion clause, but it's been introduced, it's already in the new ordination. Part of these solutions, such as those contained in the Tax Schema Information Exchange Directive, have simply not yet been present, have appeared in the OECD report, BEPS, or Base Erosion Profit Shifting. As I recall, it was 2012. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] 2015? I'm sorry, I'm not sure of a date. But when we implement these solutions, we are basing ourselves on these OECD guidelines. On the part of Professor. Nykiela had earlier argued that we were extending the directives. We do not extend directives, we introduce directives as they are, but we introduce national solutions that are similar to those contained in directives that we consider necessary to make the system complete. This is because we cannot put in place a solution that concerns legal persons when we do not introduce a solution that concerns natural persons. [[They're going beyond the directive.]] In my opinion, they do not go beyond the Directive, because we implement the way the Directive wants for legal persons, but our own solutions, for example. concerning reporting of tax schemes, Professor, we have begun to introduce, i.e. we started talking about it in 2017. And then there was a pre-consultation on the assumptions regarding the introduction of the mandate disclosure. At that time we also discussed professional secrecy with representatives of regulated professions who presented their proposals. We have softened the original project, we have made assumptions about how we want to introduce it, and they have said that we should respect professional secrecy more. We have taken this into account in this respect, that we provide for the possibility that reporting will be part of the tasks of the beneficiary, i.e. implementing an optimization scheme, not to an advisor, a lawyer, a legal adviser or anyone who provides services in the context of regulated professions. So I declare that we have implemented the directive to the extent that it provides that it needs to be implemented, while at the same time we introduce our national solutions as a sovereign state which protects the interests of the Polish Treasury. That is why we are introducing them, not because there is a directive. We are not here to implement directives only in terms of what the directive provides for, because the directive acts cross-borderly, it protects - e.g. in the framework of the exchange of tax information, the interests of the treasury of other EU Member States. We Reporting and exchanging schematics, inform that e.g. could lose the German state or the Luxembourg state, let's assume. In return, however, we want to obtain the same care for the interests of the Polish Treasury in Luxembourg and that they inform us that there is something on the matter that the Polish Treasury may lose something. This falls within the framework of the exchange of tax information on cross-border schemes, and this is regulated by the Directive, because only in this respect can the Directive regulate this. The Directive cannot regulate the reporting of national schemes because it is an internal matter of each country and not a cross-border one, so it goes beyond the powers of the European Union, which are exercised on a subsidiarity basis. As far as we are talking about national schemes, based on the OECD's BEPS 12 report, we are implementing disclosure mandates as part of national optimisation schemes. So that I disagree, I simply cannot agree with the argument that we are extending the directive that we are... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, if that's okay. [[There are no individuals.]] We introduce a reporting scheme and an exit tax tax on individuals because it is in line with the interest of the Polish Treasury. The directive only talks about exit tax on companies, because once again the European Union... [[About the subjects...]] ...does not have the authority to regulate the internal affairs of a given country with regard to individuals, because not every natural person is an entrepreneur. The Union has only regulated this issue when someone is clearly an entrepreneur when he is a legal person who is an entrepreneur... [[Thirty-fifth tax...]] ...and then the Union has the right to regulate cross-border issues that concern the internal market in an economic sense. In this respect, the Union has regulated this and we are regulating it to the extent that it concerns the protection of the Treasury under the national order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u33	Thank you very much. And the voice... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Sorry, sorry, one more thing... You're welcome, yes. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: I did not mention, because here was also the question of Mr Janusz Cichoń concerning the exit tax in which countries it was introduced. I'm sorry, I've said this several times. [[Hypothetical profit. That's what I'm talking about.]] Yeah, hypothetical profit. Good. We'll send you a written reply, okay? Because I just have to check it out. We have already listed countries where exit tax has been introduced, and it generally concerns a hypothetical profit, and we will prepare a written reply in this regard, okay? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Ewa Szymańska, also asked to speak on this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also wanted to return to the committee meeting on 17 October and thank all Members, both Members of Law and Justice and Members of the opposition, for the fact that the discussion was very well followed, for being very substantive. I would like to express my hope that the amendments tabled will be equally well worked and the committee will welcome the proposed proposal. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u35	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report after the discussion has been concluded. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws (Prints No. 2854 and 2896). Mr Andrzej Costowniak will present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the great honour of presenting a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws in print No 2854. Seym at 69. meeting on 2 October 2018 in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for its consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 5 October 2018, asks the High Sejm to approve the above draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask the Member to speak again, this time on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Mr Andrzej Costowniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on Draft Print Act No 2854. Ladies and gentlemen! This position is unchangeable, it is clearly positive on the draft law, which brings about a change in several tax laws concerning both individuals and legal persons, with a view to introducing the 3P principle, referred to as the 3P policy: transparency, simplicity and friendship of the tax system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in relation to taxpayers. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to submit an amendment to this bill to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u39	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u40	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment was intended to be an implementation or part of the implementation of 3P policy, but as a way of looking at it, and we also had the opportunity to do so at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, it is neither simple nor transparent, and it is certainly not friendly. It is also harmful - and to this element I would like to draw attention above all - to Polish local authorities, because the reduction in the tax scale in CIT, the introduction of this reduced rate of 9 percent was not compensated for the increase in the income of local government units. I can say that this fits to some extent in the rhetoric of the PiS government, which growls at the local government, and I have the impression that to some extent It is also punishment for the results of the elections, because it will generally affect the big cities above all, and they will have the most impact when it comes to these losses. The question is, how did you know you were gonna lose in these big cities? But, in addition to these official projections, you had your own, and that was the basis for this submission. Yeah, I guess so. [[Taxes.]] I'm in a bit of a joke, and it's really serious, because we're dealing with a constitutional violation here again. The Constitution expressly provides in Article. 166, including Article. 167 that public tasks to meet the needs of the local government are carried out by the JST as their own tasks and are provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks. We have a situation where this directory of tasks doesn't change, and we're reducing revenue. And this is an obvious flaw in this solution, and by the way, this is not the only solution that leads to such consequences. Today we will even discuss further changes in income tax - the next tasks are entrusted to local governments without adequate resources for these tasks. And one more point about the stakes. It seems that this is such a propaganda procedure - not much of it, that it is of such a nature, is also borne out by numerous statements by PiS politicians, including the Minister, saying that it is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. No, it concerns small taxpayers, and yet we do not really know whether these small ones in today's legal state, or those small ones in a moment, after the changes that we have just discussed in the matter of income tax, because it is in another place that we have an increase in this limit that defines a small taxpayer, not a small entrepreneur or a medium-sized entrepreneur - that does not really apply to them at all - it really does apply to micro-entrepreneurs at the most. There's another solution I'd like to comment on. This is - I signalled this in my first reading - a solution concerning a lump sum for entrepreneurs using cars for private purposes. I can say that this is not a business-friendly solution. The measure of how hostile it is is that 93 million zlotys are to go to the state budget for this purpose. If I make a friendly gesture out of your pocket a few million zlotys, would that be a friendly solution? [[Applause]] Well, let's be honest about what we say and what we do. From the OSR it is quite clear, 93 million zlotys, so much you pull out and say it's a friendly gesture still. That's the way I see it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Inefficient fiscal control in such a way as to calm the matter down a bit and thus settle the issue. I am making amendments on behalf of the Civic Platform Club in these two areas I have signaled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u41	Thank you very much, Member of the Civic Platform. Now, Kukiz, 15. But I do not see Mr Paweł Grabowski, in this connection another club, or modern club. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u42	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws included in prints 2854 and 2896. Ladies and gentlemen! Tax law is a very important element in the life of every citizen, every entrepreneur. I think it's even, it won't be a truism to say it, in the business life such an important non-business element of doing business. I say: non-business, because it generally does not generate revenue, this hard work that has been done, which is related to the analysis more and more over the last 3 years of complicated tax regulations, the introduction of new taxes, additional bureaucracy. This hard work of entrepreneurs causes that in fact this basic activity, the core of business, is often an additional activity, because these new regulations, I will say, new burdens, new taxes require more and more time, firstly to read it, secondly to understand what is going on, and thirdly to apply these solutions in practice. I must make it clear from this speaker that if the Minister and the Government come here with another tax bill, which complicates business activity once again in some areas, and its leytmotive is the slogan: 3P, i.e. transparent, simple and friendly, then more nonsense, Minister, from this speaker we have not heard today. It is difficult to consider as simple and transparent rules that de facto complicate the method of settlement. I'm talking about the billing of the use of a passenger car. You really need to have a lot of bad will to come here and tell Poles from this speaker: we are adding new responsibilities to you, we are introducing new sharpenings, but we are doing this so that these taxes are simple, transparent... [[And friendly.]] ...and friendly yet. Professor's right, of course. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what this project is all about. Here one of my previous speakers said that it is supposedly about simplifying tax law, but in fact, if we look at these laws, we will see that they complicate tax law. They make it even more hostile, cause complications in running a business. I want to say two things because we don't have much time. I also talked about these imperfections and problems related to the project at first reading. The Modern Posel Club absolutely negatives the introduction of additional obligations and restrictions on entrepreneurs who use a passenger car in running their business. Ladies and gentlemen! I have prepared a graphic that shows that the Law and Justice have raised taxes to Poles at least 34 times. Of course, it was different called tributes, fees, etc. We had to raise VAT from 8% to 23% for certain goods, freeze the PIT thresholds, introduce a power charge, issue fee on fuels, water levy. Now you are introducing further solutions, which in fact make entrepreneurs pay more. In the meantime, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for many entrepreneurs, a car is a basic means of doing its own business. He is often an office of a taxpayer, an office of such an entrepreneur. I understand that a country that has offices in big buildings, offices with big floors, offices with big desks doesn't understand that. Often in this business activity, it is not possible for such an entrepreneur to operate in the office in which the official operates due to the nature of the business. He's running this office in the car all the time. The introduction of this kind of sharpening is absolutely unjustified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, similar comments can be made in the case of this very much, but this is a very virtual reduction in CIT for entities with revenues lower than 1200 000. Euros. Ladies and gentlemen! Given the position I have put forward, I would like to say that we cannot support a project that introduces another tax, raises taxes and introduces further tightenings in tax law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u43	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to present the position of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - European Union of Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax and some other laws, seymous prints No 2854 and 2896. Taking as a good coin these arguments which were presented at first reading and today by the rapporteur, one would like to believe in them, to have such conviction. Even a few of these arguments could be treated as such, they obviously make a good impression at first glance, because there is a new reduced CIT rate of 9%. for taxable persons whose income does not exceed 1,200 000 in a given tax year. The euro also makes it possible to include in the costs of obtaining the revenues of fictional interest on the capital left in companies. This could also include the repeal in the PIT Act of a provision providing for the right to preferential taxation of income settlement of spouses and single parents, the introduction of amendments relating to heirs or the relaxation of the conditions of use of the so-called. housing relief. This is all at first glance, High Izbo, very interesting, only our attention is focused on one fact. The point is that the very severe effects remain on the part of local governments, which will, for this reason, have quite a low income. And you can't see in this project, in its justification, anything that could somehow compensate for these losses to local governments. Unfortunately, you are in line with this project - it must be stressed - in such a trend, which has not existed since today, just not to pay attention to raising the cost of living, to fulfilling all the responsibilities that are incumbent on local governments. This has been going on for a long time, while further decreases in influence are being served to local governments, which today, especially those poor local governments, feel very strongly about it. Firstly, it is not a good phenomenon, secondly, it is not fair to those who today, within the local communities, are trying to meet the challenges and this comfort, the level of services offered within the local government to maintain As high as you can. This is one of ours, but a fundamental reservation as a club, and it causes that unfortunately we will not be able, at least in principle, to support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to some questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. The list begins with Mr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice in their actions strives for solutions that will contribute to the wealth of Poles. This is clearly reflected in the 3P tax policy, i.e. the policy of transparency, simplicity and friendship of the tax system. The rightness of the solutions presented should be confirmed by building the so-called. the middle class, which is a specific organism indicative of the development of each country. So my question is: How do you think the solutions presented will affect the construction of the Polish middle class? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u47	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, also the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Does this law solve the problem of equalisation between the social partners? It is because employers have the right to write back their tax contributions to employers' organisations. To this day, however, trade unionists cannot pay back their tax contributions. This issue has been raised in the trilateral committee for many years now in the Council of Social Dialogue. I would like to know whether this law also settles this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u49	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u50	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Illusoryly, you are taking a step in the right direction by saying that you are reducing burdens, but Mr Pyzik said that we are building a middle class. The simplest thing is to abolish Belka's tax. The same savings are taxed twice. It's the first time since the salary, the second time since the funds were collected for a purpose. That's where you start to build the middle class. And that can be done very simply. In this way you have shown that you do not count with the local government - the deliberations of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission did not include this topic and the voice of the local government was not heard. You are conducting anti-government activities, local governments today will not know about it, because only for 2019 the law on the income of local government units has been extended. As far as social goals are concerned, which is important action, we considered that inheritances and donations, once made money taxed should not be taxed twice. This was the project that the Civic Platform was putting together, and I had the pleasure of presenting it. And now you say we give less, but we give less to local governments. Or maybe - if you say that so much money is coming together - you'd finally sit down and say how much money for the local government, how much money for the government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who shares our money because there's no money of his own.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u51	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have very specific questions, Minister. I would ask you very much to explain to the Minister in the speaker how much more tax will be paid by entrepreneurs in connection with the introduction of restrictions on the cost of the use of passenger cars by entrepreneurs. How many million zlotys a year? So how much more tax will the entrepreneurs pay for this? And second question: As long as the revenues of local governments fall, which enable the construction of new roads, the construction of pavements, the construction of kindergartens and all that is needed for everyday life. So, Minister, I would very much ask you to present these two important amounts to us from the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u53	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question because you use this 3P formula, which is transparency, simplicity, the friendship of the tax system. Within this simplicity, you add a new solution, a new rate, which is, in fact, a logical denial of simplification. Any additional solution is a complication of the entire tax system. Therefore, my question is: Why are we going towards a lack of logic, why are you acting in an illogical way? If you want it to be simple, transparent and friendly, make it 9%. for everyone. If the state budget can't take it, let's stand for a fair debate, let's figure out -- maybe it should be 10, maybe 12, maybe 15%. But let's make it one specific stake. However, it turns out that a new rate is being created for a new group of operators. Some entities will be included in this group and some will not. That's a complication. In addition, various exemptions, solutions for the use of cars, etc. In fact, all you do is drive business to lawyers, tax advisors, and make life difficult for entrepreneurs. I want you to be aware of that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u55	Thank you very much. This was the last questioning. Therefore, I would ask you to respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this debate and for the questions. I will try to refer to them in a substantive manner. Maybe we could start with what this law really gives taxpayers. In the OSR we predicted that the entry into force of this law would result in minus 400 million revenues. So it's not that we've predicted an additional 90 million for the budget, it's that the budget will lose because we're lowering the CIT rate for small taxpayers. Now some numbers, because we are talking about Polish entrepreneurs. These small companies, i.e. small CIT taxpayers, are mostly entrepreneurs - not all of them, but most of them entrepreneurs. And there's about 400,000 of these companies. In total, it's about 500,000. companies that pay CIT - not only companies, because there are organizations, foundations, but most of them are companies, there are about 500,000 of them. We are introducing a solution, which is that the small ones, which are around 400,000, will cover this rate of 9%. That's what our OSR says. It seems to me that this solution is clearly beneficial for entrepreneurs. Now on questions about the impact of these solutions on local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, this project has been assessed by the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. The opinion was positive. There was a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government. Why was this opinion positive? Because local authorities see that together, in the package, these laws - this is about the Print Act No 2854 and the Print Act No 2860 - give a positive effect because the sealing of the tax system, which we are introducing in print No 2860, gives a total of about PLN 1 billion. That is to say, in total, these projects have a positive effect of about PLN 1 billion. But on the one hand, we lower... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Wait a minute, Member, I'll get to that. ...on the one hand, we lower the tax for honest companies to 9%. - that's the $400,000. companies that are covered in this area and on the other hand we seal. The cumulative effect of this is very positive for the income of local government. Moreover, I would like to point out that our sealing activities in the area of PIT and CIT have already led to the fact that local governments receive more tax, local governments are funded by PIT and CIT, which has increased. Income increased, looking year-to-year, not entirely, because this is data until September 2018. With regard to corporate income tax revenue, we have 16% More. As far as PIT revenues are concerned, we have 14% More. This is the data for September 2018. Self-governments have a stake in these taxes, they get a lot of money out of it, much more than they used to get when they didn't attach so much importance to sealing the tax system. On specific questions, Mr Piotr Pyzik mentioned building the middle class. It seems to me that these actions that we are promoting here, that is, which we are proposing here, are actions that positively affect the construction of the middle class, because these 400 thousand. companies are CIT, they are made up of people, behind them are people. The preferential tax conditions make them accumulate capital, reinvest it, enrich themselves and enrich us, the whole society. As regards Mrs Tomaszewska's question about employers' contributions, this was not the subject of this regulation. Perhaps someday in the future we will be wondering about it. On the other hand, as regards Mrs Skowronska's question about self-government, I have already explained that there was a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. Projects together - this project plus the print project No 2860 - this is a plus per billion, of which also an appropriate part for local governments. So I don't think it's like the government didn't know what the government was doing here. They knew well, and they're very happy to get more money. They're already getting more money. [[And the Belka tax?]] I think technically the Member is wrong. I'm not saying anything about Belka's tax, but it's not like... Belka's tax, as I understand it, is the income tax that... [[They're on the bill.]] ...they come from capital. If I made some money and put it on the account, they are no longer taxed twice, they are on the account, while the interest that is added to them, i.e. the additional interest income, is subject to tax on this tax, as you were gracious to express, Belki. Therefore, technically, there is no double taxation here, Madam President. With regard to the question by Mr Mirosław Suchon concerning entrepreneurs, as far as they pay more for the use of cars, there were such voices in the discussion that entrepreneurs also have an office in the car, that this is a basic asset. It's all true, actually in the case of many entrepreneurs it is. Now the question is: Why should those entrepreneurs who have an office in a car bear the cost of maintaining the budget while those entrepreneurs who do not have an office in a car, but buy a car for a million, 900 thousand. - This is an example I saw in the Legal Paper during the debate on this project - suddenly they have no right to add these 900 000. in full tax costs? It is indeed a terrible problem that such a car for 900,000. You can't throw it into the company's tax costs. I'm sorry, that's what this project does: it reduces these costs to 150,000. zł. 150,000. Evil, that's... [[You've brought a very serious problem to a marginal case.]] This is a coincidence... [[This is a marginal case.]] Okay, now let's get back to real life. 150,000. zł - we raise the limit, which has been frozen for several years at the level of 80,000. We're raising him to 150,000. For a passenger car. This is enough money to buy a decent passenger car with all the security features, I don't know, ABS, all the modern accident protections that will allow the entrepreneur to do his business properly. Tell me why this limit should be higher. [[Minister, I'm saying that this limit should be... you don't have to keep any more complicated records...]] It's not...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u57	Gentlemen, Minister, this is not a discussion time, just an answer time, so answer me. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: I'm so sorry. I'm answering. 150,000. zloty, that's the limit we raised to. We've simplified the problem with the records. Those who want to keep records will have full costs, and those who do not want to keep records will have 75% costs. This is a simplification. [[Please, Minister.]] Another question from Mr Paweł Grabowski is that it is illogical that we do not reduce taxes for all. I don't know. I don't think it's logical. This is the result of tax policy. We want to help small taxpayers. Like I said, it's about 400,000. companies that pay CIT. The total number of these companies is about 500,000. We want them to jump to the upper league. That's it. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for your work on the committee. I think we've all made a contribution to this bill. There was a lot of discussion, but it is also difficult not to refer to the words that fell because here the word "truth" fell very often. This word "truth" kind of set the course for most opposition colleagues - a little ironic - in terms of transparency, simplicity and friendship of the tax system. Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is, if we go down from 15%, up to 9% tax level, as in the case of CIT, however, we are talking about some preference. It's hard not to agree that 9 is less than 15. This really cannot be discussed, and I think we all agree on that. It is also difficult to discuss that the relaxation of the conditions for using the so-called. The housing allowance by extending it from 2 to 3 years is not part of the taxpayer's preference. It is difficult to discuss the fact that the changes made to passenger cars used in the business that the Minister said would increase the amount from 80,000. Up to 150,000, they're not part of the preference. This is an element of preference, and it seems that these are so simple numbers that we all need to see it, even if we don't want to see it. It seems like it's something that's positive, and we're going the right way. I guess it's only natural that if we hear about examples that are very negative, even reprehensible, talking about it... [[Radom.]] ...that we are comparing today people who are doing business at this lowest level, in these micro-enterprises - whether we are trying to match them, in a negative light - with those who are trying or doing to this day so that cars that are worth several hundred thousand, one million zlotys or more than one million zlotys are treated the same way... Somewhere we want to introduce this preference for those who are smaller, weaker, so that they can develop effectively, because it seems that those who are already big still have a preference, resulting from the skills they undoubtedly possess, in order to be more competitive. [[Mrs Marshal, I would like to point out that the Minister was polite not to answer the question I have asked about how much more the entrepreneurs will pay for this simplification of the complexity of the rules of car clearing and the question of how much less the local authorities will receive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u59	Thank you. Minister, do you still wish to speak on this point? [[Thank you, Marshal.]] If so, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u60	I'm so sorry. The question, however, is abstract. I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question, however, is abstract. The abstract question cannot be answered in a specific way. If I'm gonna answer in a specific way how much money it's gonna cost, I need to know the shore conditions. So I have to, for example. To know what kind of entrepreneur he is, what kind of income he has, what kind of car he wants to buy. Yes? For example. If someone buys a very expensive car for 300 or 400,000. zł and will want to use it in business, it can actually lose on these changes, in particular it will not deduct more than 150 thousand. zł. I would also like to point out that per balance 150 thousand. zloty is the limit, which is a higher limit than the existing limit of 80,000. zł. That is why I would be happy to answer a specific question about quotas, but I would like to know what the shore conditions are. I propose that we simply set an example in this situation, and we can answer from these examples, and we can also present our own examples, but that is what I would have to do in writing. [[Minister, it was about the conditions set out in the OSR.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u61	Mr President, I have not given you the floor. I think that the Minister has already responded to this part, and the rest of the answer will be in writing, indicating his own examples or following his presentation of his examples. I recommend you do this and be more specific in writing. [[Of course, Your Marshal, the Minister has skillfully avoided answering, because these amounts are in the OSR. Thank you very much.]] Okay. After an additional statement from the Minister, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u62	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In print no.2854, i.e. the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax and some other laws, is referred to the policy of 3 x P, i.e. transparency, simplicity and friendship of the tax system. Under this project, the government proposes lowering the CIT rate for a specific group of taxpayers from 15% up to 9%. Kukiz'15 is a group of low taxes, so any tax reduction is accepted by us with recognition. However, we cannot ignore a certain lack of consistency between the government, which on the one hand speaks of the simplicity of the tax system, but on the other hand introduces new rates for a particular group of taxpayers. Is this a simplification of the tax system? For this reason, Kukiz'15 consistently advocates reform of the tax system or rather its creation from attitudes. It is about creating a system that is transparent, simple and friendly, i.e. one that will be understandable and readable for Polish entrepreneurs, not only for lawyers and tax advisors.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u63	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities (prints 2848 and 2895). Ms Anita Czerwińska will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Government's draft Act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities from Print No. 2848 concerns the introduction into the legal order of a state special purpose fund aimed at comprehensive support for persons with disabilities. The project entered the Sejm on 21 September this year. 69. The Sejm held its first reading on 3 October and was addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The Commission has examined and adopted eight amendments. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u65	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite Mrs Urszula Rusecka, who will present the position of the Law and Justice Club at this point in the meeting. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's bill on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, print No 2848 and 2895. The strategic objective of the Government of Law and Justice is to build a comprehensive system of support for people with disabilities and their families, and one element of this system will be support programmes financed by the Solidarity Fund. The fund's revenue will be generated by compulsory contributions to the fund representing 0,15% the basis for the contribution to the Labour Fund, as well as the solidarity tribute from individuals of 4% from the surplus income of more than PLN 1 million, the revenue being reduced by the social security contributions paid. Ladies and gentlemen! The need for the proposed regulation arises from the need to provide additional social, professional, health support to persons with disabilities. It is up to us to enable these people to exercise their rights fully, to create conditions for their own lives. The Government of Law and Justice, treating it as one of the priorities, has shown concern for the weaker, older, people with various dysfunctions since the beginning of its operation. It builds a solidarity and fair state. This purpose is to be served by the proposed fund - a special fund that will have legal personality, a fund from which about PLN 2 billion of additional funds will be used in support of people with disabilities and their families. Persons with different degrees of disability need an individual approach and comprehensive rehabilitation, extensive support, adequate funding for these activities. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Law and Justice and the Government of the United Right are fully responsible and concerned about the issues of support and the creation of a system and a programme suitable to the needs of persons with disabilities and their families. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u67	Thank you, Member. Mr Sławomir Piechot, on behalf of the Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to stress that Members of the Civic Platform are in favour of increasing the funding for supporting people with disabilities. However, it is not the first time that the draft submitted and just now so much praised by the Member has been distributed with the high slogans that have been proclaimed. Because it's a curiosity project. Curiosable, above all, because, under the slogans of solidarity and social cohesion, it leads to antagonization of society. Ladies and gentlemen, you have an example. another idea to buy cars worth more than 50,000. to charge a special tax for the treatment of children with cancer. Passwords will sound beautiful, right? Or another idea that could come from such a package: Should those traveling abroad make special additional tax charges for children and young people's leisure? After all, that is not the solidarity mechanism of the tax system. The tax system consists in creating thresholds, raising funds to the budget and making them available for recognised social objectives. And you're saying that this particular group is going to contribute money to this particular group that needs it. What does that have to do with complexity? This is the defragmentation of the system, this is its dismemberment, and unfortunately we have a deep conviction that this is not an accidental action. This is to obscure the functioning of public finance flows so that it does not finally know what the money is spent on. Ladies and gentlemen! Another curiosity solution is the creation of a special, separate fund. What's the need for another special-purpose fund? If a significant part of the contributions to this fund is to come from the Labour Fund, i.e. from the resources that actually burden every employer and every employee, then this money should also support the employment of people with disabilities. As regards the promotion of employment of disabled people, for more than 27 years there has been a State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, which has this purpose and this task. So why doesn't this money for the professional activation of people with disabilities be transferred from the Labour Fund to the rehabilitation fund for people with disabilities, but to a new separate special purpose fund? So much indicates that these are not random actions and that there is really a fund that can be freely and freely available. Ladies and gentlemen! If you think this is just our subjective critical assessment, please read the Sejm Analysis Office's report. The conclusions are simple. In summary, the expert writes: The idea of creating a new special-purpose fund with tasks consistent with the tasks of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities is controversial. The financing of the tasks of the National Health Fund from the new special-purpose fund is also a reduction in the transparency of public finances. What does the expert say? Further: The increase in measures to support people with disabilities should be linked to an analysis of the existing barriers to the development of a system of fair access for persons with disabilities to the public methods of equalising opportunities and integrating them into society. Finally, the multiplication of institutions that accumulate public funds for the tasks recognised by the rulers as essential for maintaining social cohesion and justice, obscures only the distribution of these funds and may result in unequal access by people with disabilities. It's written by an expert at the Sejm Analysis Office. This opinion is clear. Therefore, there should not be a separate fund. This money should go to a fund that has established operating rules, established procedures for spending this money, a fund that is under social control. And maybe this is where we come to the essence of things. Maybe you're just trying to get this money out of social control. If PFRON has 5 billion, has a supervisory board, it is also subject to an opinion by the National Consultative Council, and here comes a fund whose revenues are to be at the level of PLN 2 billion, that is to say that these 2 billion are to be outside this system. Therefore, we critically assess the method of solving this problem and the promises cast on the wind, in our view, not for the first time. Let me remind you: you demanded a judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal to increase the benefits for carers [[♪ The bell ♪]] adults with disabilities. It's been four years since the sentence you've demanded has been three years since you've ruled, and there's still no record of the execution of that sentence in the budget for next year. We therefore make amendments in the second reading of the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u69	Thank you, sir. To speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club on the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act, print No 2848. Of course, the history of this new institution, the new tax, the new fund goes back to the strike of people with disabilities. This was supposed to be the answer to the demands of the people who were here in the Seym for 40 days. Namely, the idea is that in their households there will be money at the minimum social level. Of course, this bill does not respond to these needs in any way, so historically a large part of the bill does not fit the justification. Our club will not support this project because we are opposed to financial resources for people with disabilities. We are very much in favour of these measures being increased and for people with disabilities to have the opportunity to live a decent, full life in society. This is obvious to us and our commitment to this strike was the result of this. Our club, on the other hand, will not support this project for three reasons. Firstly, because the purpose of this fund, this tax, is as formulated as the objective pursued by several other institutions, such as the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, county labour offices or health fund. In a sense, all these institutions are to deal comprehensively with people with disabilities. Not to mention the Civil Initiative Fund, although I will return to it, or other funds, among others. 28 special-purpose funds. These are the institutions where people with disabilities appear. What's in it for us? Nothing. We have a mess, we have more new institutions, there are really still no reforms, there is no possibility of good management of measures for people with disabilities. The introduction of another tax is not the answer to another social problem. If there are a lot of these social problems, will we tax someone new every time? Mr Piechot mentioned this. It's not a method. Or we start to manage these resources well, to reform... Minister, it has been three years and there are increased resources in the various elements of this system, that is, the fact that the Law and Justice direct more money here, and in no way has institutional reform been carried out. The system is ossified, not adapted to the current conditions, inefficient and you can see it well. Creating another office - this is the second reason why we will not support this project - is an absurd idea. Every year the number of officials increases. In 1999, there were 200,000 of them, now there are almost 800,000 of them. Tell me if the social problems have been reduced. No. We have some institutions that really lose resources for people with disabilities somewhere along the way, and they lose them on the basis that they simply cost service. And here the service will cost you too, because there will be another office, another building, there will be more officials. If you would like to think about distribution and for example. To direct money to organizations that practically deal with people with disabilities, you would have two options. Mr Piechota mentioned one thing, it is about PFRON, which is actually mismanaged and its resources are mismanaged. You know this very well, but I will no longer return to the system of judgment, because it is directly related to this, although it is necessary to remind you of this every time, because this case is unsolved. But we also have e.g. The Civil Initiative Fund, there is also a component on support for people with disabilities or social inclusion. If you want to direct these funds to non-governmental organisations, then why is a new institution being created? It is enough to redirect these funds to competitions and simply distribute them there in a transparent, fair way, because this fund is evaluated by external members. You can also have comments here, but I assume that these measures are well used for NGOs. Like I said, this is about another institution that actually swallows up most of the money that duplicates the task. The National Rehabilitation Fund also has the task of providing comprehensive support for people with disabilities. The problem lies in the failure of these institutions, the lack of consistent rules, the lack of cooperation between these institutions, the fragmentation, the multitude of offices and the various tasks. In fact, none of these offices provide comprehensive support for what we are fighting for. So either we start reforming and repairing, or we're gonna have to impose another tax every time. But the way to impose further taxes leads to another social problem. Well, those people who - because above all, this tax will affect them - e.g. they carry out business activities and earn a little more money and could pay taxes, and still pay them more, in Poland, they will start registering their companies abroad. And that's what the solution to this problem will lead to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u71	Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is simply outrageous, and it's on many levels. Much has already been said about this law at first reading, but I would like to present the shortcomings of this law in three points. First of all, using this name you are trying to deceive Poles. You claim that solidarity is not a new tax because it has a different name. It applies to PIT rules, will be accounted for as a PIT tax and calculated as a PIT, but isn't it a tax? You've gotten us used to hypocrisy, but it's already a new, higher level. Chapeau bass! I'll add more, that's it, Minister, the 37th tax you've paid us over the last few years. Secondly, this bill will hit the poorest and the richest. You take away the most valuable and capable of achieving the highest income. It's a good thing you're at least admitting it. Too bad you don't admit to taking money from the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the funds of the newly created fund will come from the employer's salary-deductible contribution, which was previously paid to the Labour Fund. Now the contribution to the Labour Fund will be lower, and consequently, naturally, the fund will have less money, so less money will be spent on helping the unemployed. Why aren't you talking about it? I would also like to remind you that those protesting in the Seym were already saying that they did not want to take money from the richest. Do you think people with disabilities would want to take money from unemployed people? Of course not. This is an outrage. And third point, last and most important, related to this bill. It does not really create a solution that responds to the demands of people with disabilities. This law, as its name suggests, creates a new fund to support people with disabilities. But this fund is not supposed to transfer money to the disabled, it's supposed to finance government programs. I wonder what these programs would depend on. So far, we have this one program, this program, this program. Clearly, he does not respond to protesters' demands. Maybe it's about preparing other government programs. Bottom line, Minister, this bill is flawed, it's bad, and it doesn't help anyone on a good case. Therefore, the Club The Modern Parliament will not support this project and you will also be encouraged to vote against this law, and at least to listen to the voices, even here, during this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u73	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the Government's draft act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities after having worked through this proposal within the committee. This project provides for the creation of a Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, which will finance programmes to facilitate the life of persons with disabilities. The fund's budget is to be composed, inter alia. from the so-called: solidarity tribute paid by people earning more than PLN 1 million per year and contributions from workers who will be deducted from current contributions to the Labour Fund. The special fund, the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, is one of the three elements announced by the current government for support to people in this social group. The second element is the Social Responsibility Package, which includes: reform of the disability system, introducing an independent ruling or increasing access to the so-called. restful care. The third element is the "Availability+' programme, which aims to eliminate architectural or communication barriers in public space so that it is accessible to all. I am convinced that the current government has a good plan to support people with disabilities, which is consistently being implemented. The "Availability+" programme was officially adopted by the government in July this year, and the public consultation on the prepared social responsibility package is due to run until the end of November. The actions described will indeed improve the conditions and standard of living of people with disabilities and contribute to their greater participation in social and everyday activities. The Government of Law and Justice is consistently fulfilling the promises made in the election campaign and we have done a lot together. The amount of social benefits has been increased, we have adopted a law on special arrangements to support people with a significant degree of disability, has been raised for years unchanged care benefits. But it takes time for everything. I believe that the determination shown in this case by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will bring the expected results. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u75	Thank you. Mr Richard Petru, near Liberal and Social. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Anna Glinka, Adrian's disabled mom, said: we do not agree to any solidarity fund or any tribute, it is humiliating us. Today I see - there is hardly anyone here from the PiS, or perhaps only the Member is sitting - that is exactly what you are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want some problems to be solved at the expense of others, and your philosophy is to conflict one group with another, not to look for a solution that makes one another cooperate. It is also in your day that you have withdrawn from the integration classes, which is rather than betting on integration, that you feel guilty in a group of people with disabilities. Exactly the same is true of this tax. You have to ask yourself: What are you here for? Why are you according to the PiS standards? You are here to transfer PLN 1 billion to the Public Television, as there is no money available, to buy a queue to Kasprowy to be state-owned, is it so that in the event that on the tapes the Prime Minister speaks ill of our native master Cuba, the State with a light hand spent PLN 40 million to finance his team through Orlen? This is your philosophy of state. And you, ladies and gentlemen, should be there to create conditions for growth and help those in need, but not to buy an electorate. Ladies and gentlemen! In countries where taxes of this kind have been introduced, because it is not a tribute, it is not an additional contribution, it is simply a tax for better earners, for entrepreneurs, in those countries where it has been introduced, that people were leaving. It was in Sweden, it was in France. In Germany, where this tribute or this tax applies, there was an attempt last year to abolish this tax. What are the conclusions of the Polish economic history of recent years? In 2004, Social Democrat Leszek Miller introduced a 19-percent linear tax. Then revenue to the budget increased by several billion zlotys. And you, as PiS, are really continuing your worst socialist traditions, which is to increase taxes for people who work hard, but instead of calling it tax, you are looking for other words to blind Polish society. Hence the words: fee, tribute, contribution. To this are adjectives: solidarity, equality and something else. Remember, too, that tonight we will be discussing the introduction of a new day off this year, November 12th. This costs the economy 7 billion PLN. That's how much a day off costs. It shows what a wasteful government this government is. In Poland we have the most days off from work in Europe, because 13, plus one additional day, which is 14. You spend that money lightly. On the other hand, you are introducing a tax that is intended to finance the needs of the disabled, which means that there is no money. And that's the insolent cynicism that shows that you have to tax where you can and then spread money that you don't earn yourself. I am in favour of rejecting this law at first reading. In fact, it is anti-working, anti-entrepreneurial and demeans the disabled. They don't want that bill either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u77	Mr President, this is a second reading and any proposals must therefore be made in writing. Mr Jacek Wilk, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u78	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem is already in the name itself. If something is called solidarity, and it is really a tax, it has nothing to do with solidarity. Solidarity is always free. If it becomes forced, it becomes socialism. And that's the fundamental difference. So please do not abuse the word "solidarity" in relation to coercion, coercive, socialist solutions. [[Applause]] Let us leave this beautiful word in peace, in the form in which it always functioned. But the most important thing - the philosophy of functioning, the philosophy of such solutions is always fatal. In this case it is extremely fatal because, first of all, the assumption that if we tax the rich, then it will be better for everyone, is wrong. Always taxing the rich makes the rich less. For all kinds of reasons. Either they're gonna run away, or they're just gonna hide their income, especially because they see how much wasted taxes they make up for so much trouble. So the philosophy of fighting the rich is wrong, especially in Poland, where we need rich people. We need people to finally make money in Poland to create a strong middle class, so that this middle class can drive the development of society and the development of the economy. And that's the first fundamental remark. The second fundamental point is that our social assistance system is entirely to be thrown into the basket. We have dozens of different forms, various forms of social transfers, which every year cost you tens of billions of zlotys, apart from the 500+ programme, and they actually - as Prof. Rybiński once calculated - operate in such a way that about 80% of the total The funds of this broad-based social assistance go to those who do not need it. This is the scale of waste. In other words, if we were directing these resources only to those who need them, it would be enough for 20% of what is now. All of this should be deleted in its entirety and there should be only one criterion: those who have fallen into poverty without their fault, regardless of the reason, whether they are health-type causes or accidents or any other. And a third point of fundamental character. That's not what the government should be doing at all, because the government has no idea. Such things as social assistance of any kind should be at the lowest possible level, because it is in municipalities, i.e. at the lowest possible level, people know exactly who needs help, who doesn't, who is really in a difficult situation, and who is just pretending, etc., etc. In short, such solutions, which sound noble, are actually fundamentally wrong and harmful. We need a complete change in the philosophy of dealing with these matters, not patching - a patch on the next patch on this one bottomless bag, which is ripped apart, holes and from which more and more will leak. And like I said, rich people They will manage and certainly the revenue from this tax will be much lower than expected, because this is always the case when tax progression increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u79	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to subscribe to the questions at this point? I can't see. I'm closing the list. You are starting Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I do not really understand what the purpose is when it comes to imposing such a tax on the benefit of people with disabilities, rather than simply shifting from the state budget - which is very good, as we hear - money to meet the demands and those who protested here. In fact, people with disabilities also need help in rehabilitation, in access to modern therapies, they need access to all modern devices and this should be taken care of by the state. And the question is: Does this really have to be at the expense of entrepreneurs? Shouldn't it just be tax? You shouldn't mix these two things up. Don't you think what you've come up with right now is really hitting the disabled and making them feel very uncomfortable? Because it is known that people who earn well are willing to put money in charity form, but one thing is to extract this money by force and only from a certain group, and a completely different thing is charity activity. Should these strokes even take place? I don't think that's a good method. That's what the government's for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and government resources to secure the needs of the disabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u81	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all say, "Money for the disabled," yes. On the other hand, we all shout: money on the state administration - no. Doesn't the government hear that? Why should we support a curial fund, dressed up in the name of solidarity, which takes money from the disabled and gives it to the operation of the new fund and to the costs of administration? [[Applause]] What is the purpose of this fund? After all, today people with disabilities listen to what we are talking about, listen to what the government's idea is. I think everyone realizes you're trying to trick them again. Since the labour fund's resources, part of this fund, are intended to be used to fund a new, puriozal fund, is the question: Why do you not want to allocate these funds to the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, tested since 1991, well functioning, which we may need to improve in some situations? Why can't we just power it with this money? This appropriation is intended to be used to mobilise people with disabilities, and you take it to the administration for your people, for your Pisiewicz. Tell that to those disabled people clearly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u83	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba. I'm afraid I don't see a Member. Therefore, we move on to the next person. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u84	Dear Marshal! I am very sorry that the Minister of Finance is not sitting here, which imposes another tax, and does not solve any problem. It does not solve the problem of people with disabilities and their legitimate demands, which they talked about with parliamentarians, those who did not want to insult them, those who wanted to listen, from June to 40 days. This project, the state imposes quasi-taxes, you set up a fund to manage it, and you don't solve problems. Today, those who listen to this disabled person, who have problems, have been left unanswered about how you will handle their case. You don't solve this problem, you don't give them any money, you don't give them hope, you keep them waiting. And that's the worst part. I want to tell you that on October 15th, we have launched one reserve or have we changed it, the ZUS reserve, 1600 million to pre-pay on the Vistula rocket system - this will be another advance - without any negotiations on a lower price. And the government agreed to that. And why wasn't this money spent on people with disabilities? You're mismanaging. You're mismanaging, misdirecting money, not for the needy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] only for bonuses for the government, as all Poles have seen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u85	Thank you. And Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. I can't see the Member either. Therefore, please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one question, a question about the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Isn't it better not to create a new fund, to make a deep, deep recovery of this fund? In the general opinion, this fund needs to be amended and I think it is an opportunity to make these changes. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Bravo. It's a substantive question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u87	Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Solidarity Danina - the new name will not change the fact that it is de facto a new tax, a new PIT tax for the best earners, but also a new burden for employers, because in the Labour Fund money there, including the fund, comes from employers' contributions. That doesn't change the fact that you're raising taxes again. This name does not change the fact that you are raising taxes again, without giving any certainty in return - carers of adults with disabilities cannot count on any means for the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. My question is this: Do you consider us all very naive, those who consider it sufficient to applaud this kind of undertaking? And second question. Is this tribute, or new tax, established to create a new institution with unclear rules for redistribution of these funds? Because tribute or tax, always public money must be made transparently spent. The state in this bill does not say anything about the rules under which you will redistribute this money. My question is, why are you doing this? You really think we're so naive that we're going to consider the tribute a nuisance, and we're going to find the new institution worthy of helping people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Disabled? In fact, it is only meant to create new places for successive hosts unattended yet, I apologize for the expression, new members of Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u90	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As of 1 July 2018, persons with a significant degree of disability under the Act may benefit from services in clinics, hospitals and other medical rehabilitation services beyond the order of order. Unfortunately, the Act does not apply to people with moderate and light disability. According to people who visit me in the parliamentary office of people with disabilities, but also at various events, festivals with people with disabilities, there is a situation, as I told you, that two people in wheelchairs, one affected by disability to a large extent, the other - in moderate, are treated quite differently. This calls for the grief of those disabled who cannot benefit from facilitations and amenities. Is it possible to adopt solutions that will take into account not only the formal disability criterion but the actual disability criterion and the actual limitations? And second question. Does the Ministry provide for an extension of the eligibility criteria for persons entitled to benefit from the Act of 9 May 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u91	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u92	Thank you. My question is very simple and short. Do you really assume that the proceeds of this tax will be as expected? 'Cause all that indicates is that they're going to be a lot smaller. So I ask you to answer honestly the question of whether they really are going to be like this or whether you realisticly assume they're going to be smaller. Thank you very much. [[Mr President, the satirical questions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u93	Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you're the one I'm asking my questions about. That is, I would like to know how solidarity is different from personal income tax, because when I read this law, I really do not see any differences. I would also like to ask why solidarity is not one of the varieties of personal income tax. Is the reason for this fear of the patch: Morawiecki's tax, as was the case with capital gains tax, which was once called Belka's tax? How do you intend to encourage the most active Poles, workers to settle in Poland and conduct their business here if you now impose an additional high tax on them? Do you intend and how do you intend to patch the hole that will arise after the reduction, probably in 2019, of the contribution to the Labour Fund? Or do you think the fight against unemployment in Poland is pointless? Then why don't we take out the Labor Fund at all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is difficult to escape the impression that it is a new tax, a tax of contempt actually, and it is contempt for two, I would say, important for Poland, important for Poles, but also important for us environments. On the one hand, it is an environment of people with disabilities who have been waiting for support for many years. There were such promises before the 2015 elections, where Law and Justice declared that the situation of these people would change as soon as the elections were won. It turned out that the Law and Justice did a lot of things, but none of them helped people with disabilities. None of them. And this is a disaster, this is, ladies and gentlemen, reprehensible. The second group are those who are active, working, extremely entrepreneurial, who want a country that the Law and Justice wants to charge another tax rate. I'm pretty sure this isn't gonna work out. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply that all these tightenings that the Law and Justice are introducing, all these new taxes, new tax rates, as in this case, make people more passive and run away with income abroad. I am therefore firmly convinced that the budget will lose on this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I have a question about what programmes are to be financed from the newly created solidarity fund, because I have a deep conviction that this is yet another fund for my own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u97	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say, first of all, that I am very sorry that this case affects people with disabilities in some way, but a certain truth must be said clearly and clearly: ladies and gentlemen, you have come to power, among others. promising low taxes. The platform also once promised low taxes and Poles fell for it. Meanwhile, you're introducing a new tax that you want to pass on to people with disabilities. The very purpose of passing on this tax is right, but the way in which this tax is introduced, the search for money in the pockets of citizens, is no longer good. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland is a expensive, expensive state in maintenance. If you want to look for money, don't look for it in the pockets of your citizens, just look for it in your own pockets. Not necessarily personal to my own as Members or Ministers, but I give a simple example, and Kukiz15 has been talking about this since the dawn of time - labour offices are having an increasingly difficult time explaining their existence. We have low unemployment, while year by year billions of zlotys are spent on officials who simply have to justify their existence. Wouldn't it be better to move these funds from the employment offices, since we have so low unemployment, and pass them on, for example. for persons with disabilities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the construction of local roads, etc.? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u99	Thank you very much. And Mr Mirosław, I am sorry, Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15, will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u100	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! My question will not be related to a further tax, which my colleague has just mentioned, but to a thing that seems more important to me, namely the issue of the system. By introducing this fee, tribute, whatever we call it, we are once again violating the principle of material unity of the budget, one of the fundamental principles of state creation. I would remind you that in the 18th century, when we led to the destruction of our own country, one of the elements of this destruction was that we were tearing everything apart into small pieces, which some of the combators managed later. That's what we do now. By creating a special-purpose fund, we give the minister in question undivided power. We are strengthening the Ministry of Poland. I remember that - here I am addressing the majority of the government - your president, the president said that he would fight with the Polish Ministry, and we are expanding the Ministry Poland, destroying the unity of the state, tearing a piece out of the budget and giving it to a certain politician, so that he has his own field there. There really is one thing, the budget is one, the principle of uniformity should operate here. So the question is, why did you decide to liquidate the budget as a state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u101	Thank you, sir. I will ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz for an answer to this and previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to thank the Members for giving me the opportunity to answer the disabled again, which is why there is a fund, because, of course, the bill says what it is for. The first question was asked by Mrs Chybick about the purpose of imposing the tax by force. She said that the needs of people with disabilities should be taken care of by the state, but not by taxes, I understand, and that we invented them, not by people with disabilities. First of all, the Solidarity Fund Act is the implementation of a roadmap for the construction of a fund to support people with disabilities, and in this road map of course everything is written, I will remind you. Mrs Zwierzan spoke about this, and I would remind you that the road map contains a social responsibility package. The Social Responsibility Package even lists tasks such as judicial reform, respite care, assisted employment, increased funding for WZT and ZAZ participants, and there is also a comprehensive rehabilitation project which at the moment, and it is a model solution, prepares PFRON, ZUS, CIOP and four medical universities, as well as a rehamanager project, i.e. the rehabilitation manager, and here are four medical universities, but also PFRON is included in this project. Now for the realization. Ladies and gentlemen, these laws are already being prepared. The next pillar is availability. The Accessibility Act will be in the Sejm in a moment, the Employment Act is ready, rest care - also the program has already been prepared, the co-financing of WTZs and ZAZs is already prepared, the regulation has been amended. If you think that people with disabilities do not follow all the work we do, I am very surprised. And the second thing - the Solidarity Fund Act was widely consulted on the environment of people with disabilities, among others. 16 regional debates were held with people with disabilities on the various provisions of this law. I am therefore surprised that people who do not seem to be interested in the affairs of people with disabilities say that it was not consulted, that it was created in some way outside of the disabled and that it has no specific purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, the social responsibility package has also been consulted with the environment of people with disabilities, we have been in every voivodeship and we have consulted it extensively, not to mention the national board for people with disabilities working at the Minister, who has also consulted and consulted this project. Mr Grabowski - such a rather obvious thing is here Mrs Skowrońska, who can confirm this immediately. In 2009, the government introduced the Law implementing the Law on Public Funds, where it removed the legal personality of the funds operating with us: the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, and in a moment it will be a Solidarity Fund. The Fund is an account, it is a budget item, and it is not an institution that will hire people and spend money on administration. You don't even know... [[That's not true.]] ...what you have decreed. What do you mean, it's not true? Isn't it? [[Purpose funds have their structure.]] Then tell me how many people the Labour Fund employs - tell me. Zero. There's a department of funds in the ministry, actually. [[But this one will be.]] No, it won't. He's a special-purpose fund, too. You don't know what it is... [[Don't insult us.]] ...special funds, refer to the Laws introducing the Law on public funds. Mrs Skowrońska is here, she can say whether special funds today have legal personality. They don't. The only one left actually is PFRON. Even those funds that are in the Social Security Office don't have legal personality. Mr. President, check... [[Did you read the justification for that bill you probably wrote? Two million with a hook.]] ...check it out, and don't tell me I'm lying.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u103	Mr... Mr Grzegorz Długi... [[Voice from the hall: Minister caught us.]] Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Okay, okay, answer me... ...there's an ethics committee, sir, how you feel offended. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: ...then see if there can be a special fund with legal personality in today's legal situation. As far as Mrs Skowronska is concerned, why there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance. At the committee meeting, of course, he was, but I will remind you that I am a proxy for the government for people with disabilities - a proxy. In addition to being the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Family, I am also a proxy and we coordinate through a special interservice team work on building a support system for people with disabilities - horizontally, simply. And I will also tell you that, as far as the proxy is concerned, we did not invent it, it was also in your time. Mr Pyzik talked about why PFRON, not the new fund. Ladies and gentlemen, PFRON, as the name suggests, is the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and implements the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. It has strictly defined in the Act the tasks it carries out and finances. On the other hand, as I have already said, the bill you asked for is mentioned for what it is: health, social and professional support. In the case of this road map, we have changed the tasks we want to carry out. And what I said: we have laws, we have regulations, we have programmes that will be funded by the Solidarity Fund. Let me remind you that we also have research, in addition to consulting we also have research results, and we asked about the needs of people with disabilities. One of the most important is health safety, medical rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really surprised that you are so eager to speak on behalf of people with disabilities, while they say what they need and expect. Mr Długi - I knocked over the cards, I am at the end - he spoke about the unity of the material budget. If you pass this bill, we will, of course, have to amend either the around budget bill or the budget bill in a moment because of the fact that of course every fund has a financial plan, which is an annex to the budget law. The State, the finance committee, even changes in these financial plans are an opinion. Without the opinion of the finance committee, Members of the finance committee, the Minister of Finance cannot make any changes to this fund's financial plan. This solidarity fund will also have to have a financial plan, which will be an annex to the budget. As for this unlimited authority of the Minister, there is no unlimited authority of the Minister. This is a more unlimited authority of Members, because it is you who will adopt the financial plan of this Fund, and we will implement it. If we want to spend the gold, bypassing the financial plan, we will be in danger of breaking the Public Finance Act. Mr Suchoń spoke about the tax of contempt for people with disabilities. Disabled people listen to our statements at the meeting. I'm sure they're happy that the solidarity fund is called that. But it can't just be a tax. After all, you know that the contribution to the Labour Fund is not a tax. It's a premium because it's intentional, because it can only be spent on specific tasks. The tax actually affects the budget. It is the government and the Members who decide how the budget is implemented and what tasks are financed. As we speak about the Solidarity Fund, the contribution to the Labour Fund is a contribution, not a tax. [[Semantics.]] If you tell the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Finance that they only deal with semantics rather than rationalising budget expenditure, I suspect that they will approve of you when it comes to the fact that it is actually just semantics and there is nothing to pay attention to the budget that is being applied. Do we help people with disabilities? Mr President, there is indeed a great deal of help. Within 500+ there is a special path for families with disabled children. Last year it was paid to families with children with disabilities 1320 million PLN. Is that help? For many of them it is. Doesn't the Member think they should get the money? Tell me they shouldn't get that money. Whether entrepreneurs charge additional contributions, taxes, etc.? I was surprised to hear from you that we have so many people who have revenues above 1 million. I have not heard from these large-income entrepreneurs that they have such doubts, the concern you are expressing here. In fact, many of them say that they are willing to share with those who, for various reasons, cannot earn, cannot have income or cannot work because they are disabled. If you think that people who have an annual income of more than PLN 1 million can't spend something out of this surplus on people with disabilities, then say it publicly. I will not say this because I believe that this solidarity fund, the solidarity tribute, really concerns a very narrow group. [[Don't conflict with anyone, Minister.]] [[That's not true, Minister. You didn't answer me, you know that. Please respond in writing. When are you gonna raise it?]] Someone was asking if we knew how much money was gonna come. The Ministry of Finance estimated it. It's estimated to be $21,000. persons. This is certainly not the majority of society, quite the opposite. By the way, I responded to Mr Wolf. The Ministry of Finance predicts so. I think it's rational. They could be higher than lower. Mrs Stępień asked about the differences between solidarity and other taxes. That's what I said. The contribution to the Labour Fund, Madame, is not a tax, and certainly part of this solidarity fund will consist of contributions. I'm looking at who I didn't answer. If I haven't answered anyone, I'm sorry. I think the most important question, the important question, was a little answered by Mrs Mirror. She answered the question of what this solidarity fund is for. If you believe that the "Availability+" - and the law, as I say, is ready, the programmes are ready to implement it - is unnecessary if you believe that stationary resting is unnecessary if you believe that the Aided Employment Act is unnecessary if you consider it unnecessary... It is also interesting that there were people here who were wondering and expressing concern about carers of people with disabilities. Let me remind you that benefits for carers of disabled persons have not been increased since 2008. I will remind you that the care allowance has not been increased since 2006. I would also like to remind you that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was about the law that you were preparing. I don't want to debate because I'm not here to debate, I'm here to answer questions. I tried to answer as I could. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] But in what mode? [[Names were mentioned.]] Mr President, allow me to make a decision. [[I just want to help.]] I'm very happy for you. We begin with Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15. Time - 1 minute. Then it's time to make amends. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You misunderstood me twice. I was talking about how you spend $4 billion a year on employment offices. Officials are increasingly having problems explaining that they are working at all in these employment offices, because there is so low unemployment. On the other hand, you're collecting hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes, and you want to introduce a new tax to save an extra billion. Take that billion out of your own hands, and don't introduce a new tax. You said that there would be no new employment costs, that there would be no employment. Haven't you read the justification? In the Impact Assessment of the Regulation on page. 6 is written: bearing in mind the need to create a separate organisational unit, the planned remuneration for the measures takes account of the chief's employment for 100,000. PLN and staff as senior specialist with experience and qualifications to carry out tasks, including long-term work experience. This is the cost of PLN 0.5 million. So what do you say? Question: "When are you lying?" You say there will be no new employment, no new costs, and this is from the document you are reporting, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u105	Second corrigendum, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to correct the information because the Minister misunderstood me. Well, when I was talking about this semantics business, I absolutely didn't mean what the Sejm Committee, the Public Finance Committee, was doing. To be honest, this would never occur to me, because in fact this semantics activity is carried out by the government of Law and Justice, which tries to hide from society the imposition of further taxes in such a way that it invents more and more new words, some kind of tax synonyms such as fees, tributes, funds, etc. We could multiply the examples, because for three years you either introduced the state or you probably raised not 35... [[Thirty-five.]] ...minimum 35. Now it's 36th, 37th was processed half an hour ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I must say to the Minister that this is absolutely outrageous. I think Poles will feel it because pulling more gold out of Poles' pockets is charging Poles with more taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u107	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform, requested that the Minister provide a written answer to her question. [[Thank you very much.]] She didn't write it in the course of her speech, but she's making an application. That's all. Does the Minister wish to grant...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u108	If I may. The Minister was kind...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u109	Madam President, I have not given you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u110	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u111	This is not a request for correction. This is not a regular statement. I've applied for a written reply, and I'm asking the Minister if he wants to answer again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u112	Just a little bit. Since Members have asked new questions, I feel that I should answer. With regard to the 2019 budget law and the draft financial plan of the Labour Fund, the State will today, with regard to these draft financial plans, consider that the operating costs of the public employment services should be reduced by 14.7% compared to the 2018 law. That's 34 600 thousand. zł. Speaking of which, the Labor Fund. Indeed, the Labour Fund, together with the fall in unemployment, also reduces its expenditure. As far as Mr Suchon is concerned, we are both right. I was talking about separate institutions that were actually wiped out. There used to be a National Labour Office that owned the Labour Fund. There was an office that dealt with the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. Separate offices. At the moment, it is in fact in the Ministry and the Ministry will also be supported by the Solidarity Fund. These amounts from the OSR that you mentioned relate to the Ministry's budget do not concern the fund's budget. They will actually be in the budget of the ministry and also in the budgets of the voivodships. Speaking of those jobs that are there for service, and about the financial resources, we need to remember that the voivodships will also organize competitions... [[Exactly.]] ...gather information about demand from local governments and transfer money. I think the officials will have something to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u113	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the Roads Fund (prints No. 2859 and 2898). Mr Bogdan Rzońc will present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u114	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! As you know, on 25 September 2018, a draft law on the Fund for the Roads of the Government entered the Sejm, print No.2859, which was sent to the first reading at the Sejm meeting on 28 September 2018. On 3 October, its first reading took place at the Sejm meeting and was later addressed to work in committee after first reading. On 9 October, a meeting was held between the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. These two committees discussed the government draft law on the Fund for Local Roads for several hours. The report of this meeting is set out in print No 2898. 15 amendments were tabled at the meeting. 4 amendments were accepted, 11 amendments were rejected by the committee. Of course, there were also editorial and legislative amendments. Some of the opposition amendments were rather joking, and I will not talk about them, but the amendments that were adopted concerned the article. 1 paragraph 2, Article Article 6 (6) (a) 4 and Article 4 54. In total, four amendments were accepted, 11 amendments were rejected in addition to legislative and editorial amendments. High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend positive further work on a very important, necessary and extremely important financial instrument, which will be the Self-Government Road Fund, which will provide an outstanding amount, because about PLN 6 billion per year, to the general public, to the mayors, also to those who want to build bridge crossings on the voivodeship roads. There is very good funding from this fund, very expected by the local government. I think that we will all vote in favour of this fund, because many people are waiting in local governments for the funds that will be dedicated by the Government of Law and Justice, and I hope the majority of the Polish governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u115	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite you to speak on behalf of the Rafał Weber Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u116	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The first reading of this project in the plenary room took place on 2 October this year, so we can say that 3 weeks ago. I used this time to make this draft law, a draft law which sets up the Fund for Roads of Local Government, to collide with the expectations of local governments. In talks with the mayors, mayors, presidents, but also the elders, showing this project, I asked them to express whether such records are needed and whether this bill is a solution to expectations that are formulated by local governments, which are addressed to the Polish government, now the Government of Law and Justice, and earlier to the governments that ruled Poland since 1990. Ladies and gentlemen! The substantive attention to this project was not present, but it was dominated by disbelief that the government is able to create such a law that the government is able to allocate such large funds, such a high value of funds to support the own tasks of Polish local governments. Almost all the voices of these wojnes, mayors, old men were like this: everything is okay, everything is okay, but if you can find the money. Will you actually keep records where the value of funding tasks for smaller municipalities and less wealthy powiats will be up to 80% ? Whether these funds will actually go to local Poland, not to big cities, to voivodship cities, which have much bigger budgets... [[To know each other, to know each other.]] ...and, on the other hand, do they have less problems with the quality of road infrastructure? [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] [[You take care of yourself, and I'll take care of myself.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The next stage of legislative work on this law, and we are in the middle of a second reading, is proof that we will implement this law very consistently and at the same time quickly into the Polish legal order, in order to accumulate funds for the Self-Government Road Fund from 1 January 2019 and organize recruitments in which Polish municipal and district authorities will be able to participate in the construction of bridge crossings - voivodship local governments. And I want with all my power... [[To know each other.]] ...to emphasize, addressing Polish self-government: yes, the year 2019 is even over PLN 6 billion. Compared to this year, it's 4.5 times more than the government of law and justice... [[That's what you had to give this year.]] ... committed in 2018 to funding investment tasks, the road infrastructure of municipalities and powiats. Let me remind you that in 2018 it is 1,300 million PLN. [[800 million, 800 million.]] This is more than 7 times more than in 2017, because in 2017 it was 800 million PLN, and it is more than 7 times more than in 2016, then it was 800 million PLN. Ladies and gentlemen! The law I am now talking about is at the next legislative stage. Tonight's committee meeting, and I hope it's a late night vote and adoption of this bill. So that there will be 6 billion PLN next year. We maintain this so that the maximum value of funding for less prosperous municipalities and powiats is 80% or up to 80%. We also maintain that the task is settled not during one year, but after the completion of the investment. It's a groundbreaking project, groundbreaking decisions, groundbreaking financial resources. Never before on such a scale and at such a height did they reach Polish local governments. [[If you didn't do anything for three years...]] Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make one amendment on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The amendment concerns the exemption from the submission to the Self-Government Road Fund of companies which are electricity and gas transmission system operators. Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which I have the honour of representing before the High House, discussing this project, is in favour of further work on this law and it will be with great joy tonight, I hope, voting in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u117	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u118	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Now scream.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Incorrect is the information given by me on 15 September 2018 during the election rally of the election committee Law and Justice in Świebodzin, that within one to 1.5 years we spend more money on local roads than during the coalition of PO and PSL within 8 years. Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] It's the truth about this bill. This bill, as well as expensive, was supposed to be an argument in the local government campaign. Just as false is the information that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki straightened out, so false are the assumptions of the bill submitted. The law divides local governments for better and worse, which is why we propose among others. amendment of the title of the law - our position here coincides with the position of the Modern Members, because they were the first to pay attention to this at the committee meeting - to read: the law on the fund of selected local roads. [[Applause]] Why? Because in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 7 You have predicted that this law does not apply to public roads managed by the President of the City on the rights of a county located in the voivodeship or the Seym of the voivodship. Why? Are these cities worse? Are these communities worse? The people of these cities are worse? The same method is proposed by you in the bill that we dealt with at yesterday's committee meeting, an important law that concerns thermal insulation, because there you also introduce a division into cities better and worse. Better will be the ones that will receive state aid, and worse will be the ones over 100,000. Inhabitants will be deprived of this assistance. We also propose adjustments that will allow you to carry out tasks not only when it comes to bridges, but also when it comes to overpasses when it comes to footbridges. [[Applause]] Why is it not possible to use subsidies for these engineering facilities? Therefore, we propose to change the definition of the bridge and to extend it, let us talk about the concept of bridge objects, which is a broader concept. We also propose that the resources at the disposal of the Minister for National Defence be eliminated as one of the sources of the elected local roads fund. It is scandalous that the government proposes that the funds that should be allocated to modernization of the Polish army should be allocated to concrete and asphalt. I like to build roads, Mr Adamczyk too, but the defence of the Republic is our sacred duty and needs to be modernised, the Polish army needs to be rebuilt. We don't have modernization programs, we don't have helicopters, we want to pull old tanks out of the bushes, and we want to use money from MON to build local roads. This is a disgraceful solution, which is why we propose that these provisions be deleted, and we propose that in the financial plan the reserve be increased from 5% to 10% and that this reserve be used to cover the price difference resulting from the tendering procedure and the price resulting from the investor cost. We respond to market threats, we know that the prices that occur in tender procedures are today higher and often exceed the investment costs. Finally, one more truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 14 800 km - so many sketches were built during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]] Question: "What are the results... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Łukasz Rzepecki from the Kukiz club15. There isn't. In that case, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Poselski Club on the draft law on the Fund for Self-Government Roads. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that no one needs to be persuaded that self-government roads are an extremely important element of our infrastructure. Outlays, which have been under various programmes for many years, among others. Schetynówki, are systematically borne for the construction, repair of these roads, contribute to the fact that the communication system in our small homelands, this arrangement which serves commuting to work, which serves access to school, kindergarten, which serves our closest communication, becomes better, more efficient and better responds to the needs of residents. Of course, local governments due to the high burden of carrying out tasks commissioned by the government, among others. Rights and Justice, for which they do not have sufficient resources, including from the Government of Law and Justice, are not able to carry out these tasks themselves. That is why these programmes supporting road construction projects are so important. I have to say, it's terrifying that these funds have been steadily decreasing for three years. This year for the so-called program. The budget included only 800 million zlotys. Mr Grabarczyk, who quoted the apology of Prime Minister Morawiecki in this matter, which he had to give because he had just lied about these funds allocated to local government roads. This is of course very noble, but I must say that nothing has changed in the project itself. We are still dealing with the proposed non-transparent way of allocating funds. We have special powers for the Prime Minister, who in no way comply with the standards of the democratic rule of law. In turn, we have discrimination against some of the city centers. I ask: Why does Law and Justice want to discriminate against some of the Polish people? It's not right. We also have draining the finances of the environmental and water management fund, state Treasury companies, mining rescue and MON funds. Ladies and gentlemen! We're making substantive amendments. We hope that they will be adopted so that this project can be improved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u121	Thank you. Now please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was already said that this is a project for selected local roads. I have to agree with that. But there is another very important element. This bill is actually very non-transparent. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 25 is saved the entire process how the Ministry of Infrastructure can correct the lists developed by the voivodship offices under the supervision of the voivodship. Minister! If you have voivodship offices, you have voivodships, then why do you want to double their jobs? The second element... The marshal isn't here, so you can leave him alone. The second element is even worse. It's about art. 26, where, in fact, the Prime Minister can throw the whole list in the basket and write to himself at his own discretion a complete list of roads which will receive funding of up to PLN 6 billion. We know how Prime Minister Morawiecki - because recently also tapes with his participation have been published - transparently divides these funds. That's $50, that's $70, that's $100,000. zł. [[Applause]] Of course, with the opportunities offered by this fund, i.e. PLN 5 and 6 billion per year, it will not be limited to 50 or 100,000, but will give millions. But he will not give them on the basis of real criteria, real needs, only at his own discretion. [[It was the same for the Civic Platform.]] That is why we are calling for and proposing further amendments to correct at least these issues, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because we are not discussing whether it is necessary to support the construction of local roads, because we must...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u123	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u124	Let's just do it transparently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u125	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u126	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have continued the debate and the legislative process of such an important government project, the draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund, yes, very important. And here I agree with the rapporteur, with my previous speakers, with the Minister, with the Ministry, that local government roads need to be supported. Local roads are also part of the road network, which in the programmes and strategies of the regions are most often included in the tasks as an external and internal communication of the region. It's like a bloodstream. It's very good that we're going to finance these roads. After all, these roads are constantly being modernised. They practically need to be refurbished more often, because the economic factors and current transport needs of companies and farms located in rural and non-urban areas also make these roads have to bear greater burdens than previously foreseen. We agree with all of this, and we are in favour of this funding being. I thought today that since we're already after Sunday, we'll normally talk about how to write it all down, how to consider these suggestions. However, during the speech by Mr PiS, I felt as if we had gone back in time or had already begun to move on to new situations that might be happening next year. What's that for? Can't we talk in human terms about solving problems, how to help these self-governments? No. We're just talking about what a wonderful, wonderful solution it's never been, and we know it's been different, because different corrections have happened. I've appealed so many times. Well, you criticized those who were before they did wrong. Those who were before it accepted, hit their chests, received a yellow or red card and did not rule. The third year about the same thing? Let's talk about what we want to do on this base that we've created over the last three years. Let's move on, that's all I'm saying. Next: I have doubts about the transparency of the distribution of these funds. So many suggestions, and you don't want to take them into account or even consider them, you just want to maintain that the minister, the ministry, the central level will decide who gets the money. That's transparency? Let us delete this word and write that the Minister will discretionaryly divide the funds and allocate them to those who apply. Why do we have to hack around, argue all the time? Can't we do something good in human? [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a club, we are in favour of continuing our work. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I respect you very much, but today's statement that the opposition amendments are ridiculous makes you think. [[Applause]] Then why make any adjustments? 'Cause it could be different. [[Not funny. I said joke.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm honoring you. [[That's a weird joke.]] That's ridiculous. I'm honoring you. Therefore, as a club, we are in favour of continuing our work, asking that these proposed changes be considered and adopted, which will not give cause for mutual distrust, suspicion, but will contribute to improving the technical state of the roads. And for that, Parliament will certainly have a higher record than that we will write who has said what and to whom during the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u127	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your parliamentarians like to add themselves to the list of people asking questions? [[I think I'm saved.]] I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. I'm asking you to... [[Am I registered?]] You are in writing, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute, sir. [[One minute, right?]] Yeah, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Each zloty allocated to the local government is certainly a good investment. But you don't love self-government, you don't like it, you hate it. First of all, you've taken your powers, you've taken your resources. Examples: national fund, melioration boards, sport funds, recreation funds. Let's even look at the battles you fought with the electoral order. All this suggests that what you're doing, you're just doing propaganda, you're doing it to the public. For three years, you've had time to spend at least the kind of money the Platform has spent in the crisis. When the European Union was experiencing an economic crisis, when there was little money, we spent much more. Minister, I'd like to ask you what resources you've spent on local roads over the last three years. How many kilometers did you build that day? And the next question is, why didn't you do it right away? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the first year of the new government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u129	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you where the money really came from. Because it's not like the government suddenly got it from somewhere. He took it from the Poles. I will not repeat the truisms that the government does not have its own money. I understood that since the government took it, perhaps from the government's payroll fund, for the ministries. But no. From the National Environmental Fund. One billion. 400. I'm looking at this fund's financial plan. Next year's non-refundable expenditure: one billion 700. At this level there are normal environmental expenditures under this national fund. What's he gonna give up the national fund by giving up a billion 400 on the roads? What kind of 300 million is he gonna finance? And so a tax was created on the fund related to the issue fee, which actually drains the pockets of Poles. It was gonna go to the smog fight, and now it's gonna go on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a vote fight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u131	I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u132	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appreciate a comprehensive approach to improving the quality of local roads, Minister, in this project. I am particularly pleased with both the well-diagnosed scale of the problem and the clear need for a certain standardization of solutions expressed in the explanatory statement. I would therefore like to suggest that a step further be taken and, as part of the funding from the proposed fund, the need to comply with the standards that your Ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure, should develop. Perhaps in this way we can rationalize the costs by properly choosing the parameters of the rebuilt road or bridge to the real need. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u133	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Jan Warecha, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask, or rather clarify, the criteria under which the funds will be allocated to the construction of roads for the defence of the country. We know that it is about to be created, or maybe we expect a permanent American base to be created in Poland. Would this fund possibly build roads from scratch? The fund is expected by local government and is good. It's never perfect. And the fact that it is good only confirms your statements from the opposition that you are jealous of us that we have come out with such an initiative as parliamentarians and as a government, that it appeared in the fifth Prime Minister of Morawiecki. I think we should look for an agreement here, and I hope that you will all support this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u135	Thank you. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund is the response of the current government to a programme on scheming, which is so successful that you have so much in your throat that you want to cover one another, instead of continuing with such a good project. Only that, according to this project, the government gives on the roads after being considered, and in the scheme for scheming, there were strict rules that could be used to allocate this money. Here is Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and will personally decide which municipality, which district will receive money for road investments, without any regulation as to who it belongs to. I would like to ask if, in this connection, you will restore all these deleted investments concerning the Pomeranian Voivodeship, such as the construction of the Starogard ring road, the Sztum ring road, the tunnel under Pachołek Hill in Gdańsk, investments for which are very much [[♪ The bell ♪]] I need that money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u138	And a question. Will this fund be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u139	I would ask you to ask Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u140	I would like to start by asking the committee president a question. Are the amendments aimed at greater coverage of the tasks of local governments in the field of road construction, or not, Mr President? But aren't they serious? [[No, it's serious.]] Thank you for this response, because you set our discussion and debate a little bit. I would like to give you an example, namely the Blacks bypass built within the road 454 from Opole to Namysłow, which was created to relieve the entire communication system due to the construction of the Opole Power Plant. Mr. Chairman, if you'd just focus... I would like to say that this bypass needs to be completed by building the ring road of Goodness - another 200 million PLN. What do I mean? Great government investment must be supported in this way, because it is the government's decision to make a big investment, and the local government must meet it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there are titles, not just bridges and overpasses... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Not from this fund, sir, not from this fund.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u141	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u142	Minister! Why can't the Prime Minister respond to the simple interpellation that I addressed on September 25th and ask for a delay because he doesn't know and can't figure out how many roads the Schetynów were built before, and how much now? Secondly, where were you, Minister, at the Council of Ministers meeting, that you were being cut off for the roads every year, and that was on your program? It's amazing, Mr. Prime Minister, and Mr. President confirmed... It'll be money for your own, for your own, for your own. We have bonuses for the government - for our own, a post-penitentiary fund for their own, taken money from the army for their own... [[The salary...]] ...taken money from environmental protection for yours. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no such thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that you do such things contrary to the transparency of spending money for local governments, for Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u143	I would ask you to ask Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u144	I remind you, 14 800, 1,000 kilometers of sketches were created on green ground. And the question is, how much will you build? You're bragging that you're going to spend PLN 6 billion next year on schetining, but did you pay attention to the article? Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7, which indicates when contracts for the construction of local roads expire? Under what conditions? The market situation is tragic, construction companies are bankrupt, 100,000 are missing in the construction sector. employees, the prices of construction materials are rising. After the tender procedures, we have an increasingly frequent situation in which the contractor who has won withdraws from the contract, and in such situations there will be no implementation of this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u145	I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Paul's question, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are debating today about the Self-Government Road Fund. It is a long-awaited law by local authorities allowing them to reach for additional funds. I am personally interested in whether this fund will be able to build or renovate bridges on municipal roads, because most of the renovation or construction of a bridge is a multimillion-dollar investment and municipal government cannot afford such an expense, and there are situations that the bus delivering children to school stops in front of the bridge due to its poor condition threatening collapse, children must walk through it, and behind the bridge there will be another bus delivering them to their destination. Therefore, my question is: Will the Self-Government Road Fund be able to build or repair bridges on municipal roads? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u147	The question will now be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I am not questioning the Self-Government Road Fund because the support of local governments, in terms of roads, about their renovations, is very necessary, but why isn't the source of this fund the revenue of the state budget? It would be clear, clear, clear, no one would lift anything. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, the government boasts of the high growth rate of income. Why aren't these additional revenues earmarked for self-government? Various reserves are being created under different names, and now at the meeting of the finance committee we see how these reserves are resolved: huge money goes to unplanned tasks. Taking money from the Ministry of National Defence is a very dangerous decision - I wonder how responsible you can make such a decision. And the second thing is to take money to fight smog when we're talking about big clean air action. It's just fiction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u149	The question will now be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u150	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have very specific questions. Minister, because more than a month ago, I sent you an interpellation on how many local roads were built between 2015 and 2018, using the funds you provided, I would ask you very much to provide such information. Please also provide the following information. According to the proposed article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be trained over PLN 1400 million. Which tasks will be reduced? Similarly, as regards funds from the Ministry of National Defence and funds from the Central Mining Rescue Station. What tasks will be reduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the Central Mining Rescue Station because of the transfer of funds to the road fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u151	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition sheds crocodile tears, talking about discrimination, about exclusion, while I, Minister, wanted to ask what it was like in the past. Is it true that it was the former government of the Platform and PSL that discriminated against and excluded smaller urban centres or smaller municipalities from obtaining EU funds just on local roads? Example: Eastern Poland Operational Programme. Only five voivodship cities: Rzeszów, Olsztyn, Kielce, Lublin and Białystok can benefit from this programme. And a second example: regional operational programmes which are directed within urban functional areas only and exclusively to the capitals of these voivodships. [[Where was the voivodship marshal?]] So that, ladies and gentlemen, you discriminated against local Poland, county Poland, and now you are accusing us of it. This project is now restoring justice, restoring the chance for smaller towns to raise government resources, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's still up to 80%. the value of the task. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u153	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, and answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe before I go to this absolutely substantive part, I will allow myself to refer to the political accusations, and in particular to the terms that it is after knowing that, for my own sake, this peculiarity, specificity and people have been defined differently... [[Were you at the rally? Did you hear the Prime Minister?]] Well, I think that in particular Mr Weber said, in such a minute speech, he gave the essence of what happened in previous years, ladies and gentlemen. And if it's for my own sake, I'll remind you that for three years of supporting initiatives on local roads... The Pomeranian Voivodeship is an example. Mr Smolinski told me about it a moment ago. The absolute majority of local governments managed by colleagues associated with opposition parties today: The Civic Platform and the PSL are supported by this fund because the Government of Law and Justice does not distinguish between local governments led by those who have pro-government or anti-government views. [[What did the president say?]] So just so we're clear, look at the figures... [[Where's the S14 road?]] ...please take a look at the amount of funding directed to local governments throughout Poland, because the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is guided by one fundamental message: there is no Poland A and B, Poland is one, [[Applause]] Poland is from A to Z. There is no Poland divided into this managed by the Platform... [[Listen to the president.]] ...where the Civic Platform has largely supported local government initiatives, and on this Poland, where the mayors, mayors, seniors not associated with the then governing camp, the Civic Platform, are managing. Maybe we can agree that this is how it's always worked. [[That's not true.]] This country has shown this familiarity or other: this friendship and friendship, how it works, in the case of a tunnel under the pig. Do you remember the efforts of Świnoujście to finally connect Świnoujście with the system of national roads? Do you remember the decision to transfer funds from Świnoujście to a completely different place during the Civil Platform government? Why? Because Świnoujście wasn't managed by people connected to the Civic Platform. That's where he was running and managing, a year ago, two years ago, three years ago, the same President who was more involved with left-wing environments. What was the decision of the Law and Justice Government? The decision was not to build this road for the president, but for the inhabitants of Świnoujście, we support the construction of this tunnel not for the president, but for the inhabitants of Świnoujście. You've only seen political personalities and colors. And that's what's different about us. [[Applause]] [[And where was A4 formed?]] That's why we're building, we're supporting the construction of a tunnel near Pigs, and the state of this project didn't support it, you even closed it a few years ago. This is one thing, but let's not have this argument anymore, because we all know what's going on. [[Voice from the hall: Madam President speaks of locusts.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the matter concerns the footbridges, because the question has been asked why only bridges and not the footbridges will be financed from this programme, then the Minister knows perfectly well that the footbridges are part of the communication infrastructure, and the Self-Government Road Fund... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, Mr Żmijan, thank you for confirming this from such a height. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, the Self-Government Road Fund will be able to finance the elements of the communication infrastructure. That's where the footbridges belong. As far as bridges are concerned, of course the bridge programme, run by the Ministry of Investment and Development, will be financed by this fund. It's out of the question. The question, which he very strongly defined, was asked by Mr Warzech about the defence routes. Yes, this fund will fund defense roads, but in a completely different system, in completely different procedures. Let me remind you that the Minister of National Defence has the capacity and competence to invest in defence roads. Minister! You know very well that not only the excellent machinery park, not only mechanized at a high level military level, but also the transport routes on which this army could move, are important. In this case, the Minister for National Defence shall determine which investments will be supported from this fund from which they will be financed. This is the most important thing from the point of view of defence of the state, because the defence of the state is the synergy effect of all actions: not only investment in equipment, but also investment in the right infrastructure. And if that's the case, do you know why, Minister? Because they haven't been satisfied so far. If it is necessary to build defense roads, it means that they have not been built so far. And if they weren't built, let's not hide our head under the covers, under the green dress, into the sand, and let's not pretend that everything is okay. [[And the helicopters are here yet? Are the modern drones here yet?]] [[What about the helicopters?]] I can't resist here... There is no Member who has asked an outstanding question about this discretion. I assure one of the absent Members about the Oświęcim district, the municipality of Chełmek, the town of Bobrek, that if the municipality of Chełmek prepares the appropriate application, it will certainly be taken into account and the town of Bobrek, the municipality of Chełmek and the district of Oświęcim will be able to count on funding. [[Applause]] Surely they will not be overlooked or deleted simply because from there comes an outstanding member of one opposition group, which today has absolute doubt, I have the impression that the full internal conviction that absolutely the commune of Chełmek and the town of Bobrek will not be able to benefit from this programme. They'll be able to use it. The condition is one: a well-prepared application submitted in due time in the appropriate place. This funding is also aimed at the residents of the town of Bobrek, the municipality of Chełmek, the district of Oświęcim. The question came up and it was said that these funds spent over the last three years on local government roads are very small. [[There they are.]] One of the Members mentioned this, or otherwise: he based his statement on the fact that he believed that three times of PLN 800 million were spent for three years. You have forgotten: this year it is 1300 million, and in total the funds redistributed by the infrastructure department for 3 years are PLN 3.9 billion. And if you're interested in the amount of local roads rebuilt in recent years, because we don't have data from this year for known reasons... [[And why isn't the Prime Minister answering?]] ...that was 3470 km between 2016 and 2017, Mr, quite a few. If we multiply this times five, we already have about 18,000. It's a kilometer. Another question or another: doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't insult the Prime Minister of the Lightest Republic. Please don't imppute the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, that... Now and for the future, because that's what you're talking about every next President of the Council of Ministers, every next government in the next term of office of this Sejm. This bill is prepared for the following years, not for a month, for two months, and the state insults every next President of the Council of Ministers, who will be appointed in five years' time, in eight years' time, saying that they will be guided by evil premises. With regard to the President of the Council of Ministers, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 This is about the Minister of Transport. Art. Article 26 (2) (b) Points 1 and 2 clearly indicate to what extent the President of the Council of Ministers may make changes, which is exactly what he describes. It is not - as you say, generalize - that it has the full freedom of all activities. Similarly, you point out that the Minister responsible for infrastructure has guaranteed himself such competence. That's not true, because look at the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the What makes the Minister responsible for infrastructure? It shall examine compliance with the funds allocated to the Fund's financial plan and, secondly, examine the compatibility of the proposed amounts. That's what he's researching. That's it. That's it. It does not do so, as unfortunately no longer present Members - I regret that they do not get this information - they accuse us. [[Voice from the room: I do nothing.]] [[We'll pass it on.]] I would ask you to provide this information and I hope that these doubts will be resolved and will no longer be debated in public space. [[But we disagree.]] I address the Minister, Mr Grabarczyk. Mr President, you did not fully understand the article. 29. I'm very sorry, but you just didn't understand, and that's why you've come to a completely false conclusion. Here's what you're saying you're gonna be... In your statement and question, you also describe this situation, that if the tender is extended or decided for a larger amount, then the contract expires. No, sir. The agreement expires in two cases. If the investment is carried out by an individual, i.e. no tender is conducted, the contract shall expire if the applicant does not start the execution of the investment within 30 days of the conclusion of the contract with the subsidist... [[Yes.]] ...that is, with a government party, it shall not commence works where there is no public procurement procedure in respect of works and, in the latter case, if no tendering procedure is initiated within 1 month after the contract has been signed. And I think that this record... I'm sorry, it's not in line with the record, you interpret it differently, Mr. Speaker, it's the record. [[No.]] Mrs Skowronska has already succeeded... [[Voice from the hall: Rest.]] Well, I will not address Mrs Skowronska's questions. Mr Paul's question. Yes, bridges along municipal roads are also covered by funding, because we are talking about road tracks, we are talking about these elements of road infrastructure, constructions, and buildings that accompany this investment. And they're all covered by funding, which is why the amount of funding is definitely higher, because it's exceeding the amounts so far... or the upper limits applied so far. If you are now talking about the fact that the Self-Government Road Fund was working... the funding for local and district roads was working in an ideal way, then I allow myself to refer to Mr Weber's words, who referred to talks with local government officials. And I, too, can appeal to local government officials I've had several hundred in the last few weeks. There's absolute expectation... [[Voice from the room: When and where?]] ...for this bill, because the solutions written there are beneficial for local governments. And I ask you to believe that and trust that this project is not dedicated to politicians, this project is dedicated [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u155	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bogdan Rzońca, to speak. [[And in corrigendum mode.]] Excuse me, sir. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Grabarczyk. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You recalled those two cases where the contract expires. And there's another argument you don't see at all. You weren't at the committee meeting, and that's where we talked about it. You want to build roads of defensive importance, these local roads. And if contracts are to expire under the circumstances that have been invoked here, that defensive objective will never be achieved. And that's something the Minister doesn't see. This is the thing that we also pointed out at the committee meeting, and this is another proof that we must not take the resources that are intended to modernise the Polish army, and allocate them to concrete and asphalt, because this is a crime. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u157	I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee of the Regions, Mr Bogdan Rzońca, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's nice to hear how much you criticize this bill, a very good bill, because you're afraid that you didn't do it, just did it to the government of law and justice, and that it's a great idea to make it a financing instrument for local governments for years to come. But, of course, I would like to refer to one of the statements that I said something about ridiculous somewhere. I've never used that phrase before. On the other hand, I will quote a passage from the justification explaining what was involved in the fund: "It is expected that the amount of FDS funding for district and municipal tasks will depend on the income of the local government unit concerned. In particular, the principle will apply that the lower the own income of the local government unit, the higher the value of the co-financing, up to a maximum of 80%, will apply. the costs of carrying out the task. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good record, a very important one. On the other hand, during the committee meeting, amendments were tabled which either wanted to confuse the purpose of this fund or to extend its scope as far as activities are concerned, so that everything could be financed in principle. And we clearly want this fund to be aimed at something, just as every fund is aimed at something, so that it is directed simply to local governments, district governments and to the construction of bridges in voivodship, municipal and district roads, for example. So you can't put everything in this fund. Of course, in any case, you can make countless amendments. Then the committee meeting lasted three hours, enough. We can debate today for the next few hours, and we probably will, but if we read the literal justification, then we have to stick to the bill, because then there are legal dilemmas, or if someone makes an amendment, then whether this amendment has financial consequences or not. And the legislators paid attention to this, and you had to withdraw from these amendments. I would therefore like to say very clearly that the fund is very good, very much needed. But I also want to thank the representative of the Polish Towns Association, Mr Mark Wójcik, for his very active participation in this. How many times did he want, so many times he took the floor. There was a representative of the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland at the committee meeting - as many times as he wanted, he took the floor. There was a representative of the State Forests - if he wanted to, he would speak. So everyone who could have said something about this fund, who could have made any amendments or comments, had that possibility. However, I have actually noticed that at some point the amendments tabled come out a little bit or go far beyond the formula of the law. So that's what I meant, and I didn't mean to accuse anybody of any funnyness when I made amendments. Thank you very much to all of you who have been actively involved in the work. You're welcome tonight at the hour. 6:30. We will continue to proceed with this bill. And I hope that you will all eventually vote in favour of this fund - all of you, the whole room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u159	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u160	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Since there has been a serious charge of crime here, I cannot fail to address the issue of the Self-Government Road Fund in the defensive section. Well, Mr President, I would like to remind you that, with regard to defence roads, the proceedings will be conducted in a private manner. The agreement will be signed when the whole task is prepared, so there is no fear that anything bad will happen here. [[Then what's the recipe for?]] But when you talk about crime... I would ask that the parliamentarians present here, who were the parliamentary majority by the two previous terms, now, at this moment, hit their chests loudly, because the crime, Mr President, was that by two terms you did not spend a total of over PLN 12 billion on defence. [[Applause]] And it was a crime in the defence of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u161	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm refer this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission has submitted a report on a draft law amending the Law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No 2932. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government bill amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers (prints no. 2847 and 2881). I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance a report of the committee regarding a government project amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The government project is in print No 2847 and the committee report is in print No 2881. High Seym! The Commission considered this proposal at its meeting on 2 October. The government project has been excellently prepared. No formal amendments had been tabled to this draft, and several comments from the Legislative Office were adopted, which were consensual among the representatives of the various groups within the Committee on Public Finance. Thus, the draft in a form actually comparable to that in which it was sent to the Sejm, with the exception of a few editorial remarks which the Legislative Office of the Sejm reported, was adopted by a committee vote and goes to the session of the Sejm. In favour of this report, which I discussed, there were 17 people, members of the Committee on Public Finance, with 8 abstentions and no one opposed it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u163	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u164	Thank you very much. At the moment I am acting in a new role and I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the proposal to amend the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. In fact, the proposal aims to align the current amounts of liability insurance for motor vehicle holders with the regulation adopted in Directive 2009/103/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on insurance against such liability. This directive is commonly referred to as the Communication Directive. This provision provides that, every 5 years or at the end of the transitional period, the amounts of guarantee amounts shall be reviewed taking into account the index of consumer prices, so-called. HICP. Poland benefited from a transitional period to adjust the minimum guarantee amounts, which lasted until 11 June 2012. Therefore, the minimum guarantee amounts will be increased by the percentage change indicated by the HICP for a period of 5 years by the end of the transitional period and rounded to 10 000. Euros. For the period from June 2012 to June 2017, this indicator increased by 4.14%. Thus, the minimum guarantee amount will not be less than 5210 thousand. the euro for one event. Currently, this sum amounts to EUR 5 million in the event of personal injury. The guarantee sum will increase in the event of damage to the property to 1050 thousand. Euros. It is currently EUR 1 million. These changes will apply in the same way to OC insurance for farmers. The increase in the minimum guarantee amounts will have little effect on the increase in the contribution and, consequently, on the increase in compensation paid to victims and victims of accidents. The proposed law is to enter into force on 31 December this year. The Law and Justice Club supports these regulations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u165	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are in the middle of the second reading of the submitted report on the government draft law amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. A report has been prepared and I would like to say - because the rapporteur pointed out how many votes were in favour, how many Members in the finance committee abstained - that the Civic Platform club abstained because it did not indicate that there would be any further increases in civil liability insurance, motor insurance or farmers' insurance. We asked for this review, we asked for information, we had a very large increase in insurance two years ago. Therefore, although it is the introduction into the Polish legal order of the provisions of the directive in this regard, we thought that the Polish Government, the Ministry of Finance in particular, and other institutions that should supervise the way insurance increases... After all, this is money drawn from the pockets of Polish taxpayers, people who are insured, and we have defined this insurance as compulsory insurance in this respect. We were not convinced by the information that the price struggle on the insurance market caused these prices to be very low and not to cover the damage. Therefore, this doubt was based on the fact that we abstained from voting as members of the Civic Platform club. Today we are talking about adapting to the directive and introducing an increase using the growth rate, which after a transitional period was calculated at 4,14%. We can assume that this is a directive and raised issues should be regulated as an automatic one, but there should be a lot of control and supervision, so that the situation before 2, 3 years old, when compulsory insurance has increased significantly, will not recur in the future. It can be welcomed that this valorisation mechanism also benefits, among other things. compensation which will be granted to victims of accidents: in the event of damage to the person, there is an increase of up to 5210 000. EUR and, in the case of damage to property, up to 1050 000. Euros. We can accept that. We are in favour of having a fair conversation in the finance committee and a fair review every year of all the mandatory taxes imposed, the mandatory obligations of citizens, in this case the contributions to motor insurance for both vehicle users and farmers, so that these excessive increases do not affect consumers. Depending on how the debate is going to be held today, what will be the discussion and what will be the Minister's assurance regarding the review and information of Parliament each year, so that this oversight of increasing danin and the responsibilities imposed on citizens is carried out, so the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote. Let me remind you that we have benefited from this transitional period, and we agree that this must be discussed. Nevertheless, we expect a fair debate and assurance from the Minister that increases in contributions, for example. for communication insurance will not be excessive and will not take money out of the pockets of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u167	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Act amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. High Izbo! The project submitted concerns an increase in the minimum guarantee amounts in compulsory insurance of motor vehicle holders for damage caused by the use of these vehicles and in compulsory insurance of the civil liability of farmers for holding an agricultural holding. In addition, the draft contains proposals to clarify the rules on the party liable to pay compensation to the injured party in the event of a possible dispute between the Insurance Guarantee Fund and the insurance undertaking. The need for this amendment arises from the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on insurance against civil liability arising from the use of motor vehicles and the enforcement of the obligation to cover such liability. On the basis of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of that Directive every 5 years from 11 June 2005 or at the end of the transitional period until 11 June 2012 at the latest, the amounts of the guarantee amounts referred to in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 shall be reviewed taking into account the index of consumer prices. The Republic of Poland has benefited from a transitional period to adjust the minimum guarantee amounts until 11 June 2012 and as a result of the review which took place, new guarantee amounts have been identified which are the subject of this project. In addition, the amendments proposed in the draft law aim to clarify the applicable rules in the event of a possible dispute between the Insurance Guarantee Fund and the insurance undertaking concerning the determination of which one is obliged to pay the benefit to the injured person. As proposed in the event of any dispute between the above mentioned finding which of them is obliged to pay compensation to the injured party, such payment shall be made by the insurance undertaking. According to the proposal, if, after payment by the insurance undertaking, the liability of the Insurance Guarantee Fund is established in whole or in part, the fund will be obliged to reimburse the insurance undertaking for the compensation paid or part of it and the costs incurred. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal, on the one hand, concerns only the increase of the guarantee amounts, and on the other hand, it is impossible to escape the question of how this regulation will affect the determination of insurance premiums. In the draft law in the explanatory memorandum and in the OSR we find that this impact will be scarce in the short term, while it is interesting - and here I would ask the Ministry for more detailed explanations - that is the wording that concerns the longer term. According to the opinion presented by the Insurance Board by the Polish Insurance Association, the increase in the guarantee amounts is expected to increase. This in the long term may entail higher costs for the insurance undertaking, which will mean an increase, which is significant even, as shown by the position presented, insurance premiums. And that, of course, is disturbing. This is also worrying because a little bit of these transition periods is that for some time the contributions remain at this lower level, but it turns out that later the costs associated with the increase, the sudden increase in contributions are extremely high. In this respect, however, we expect the Ministry to present such, I would say, an in-depth position and an in-depth analysis of the impact of the increase in guarantee amounts on insurance prices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u169	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u170	...how much will the Poles actually pay. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] And that's what makes us dependent on the bill's support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u171	Thank you. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. These are 2847 and 2881 prints. The first reading of this project took place at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 2 October this year. Several changes have been made during the committee's work, but only editorial and legislative. The draft law generally amends the provisions of Directive 2009/103 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on insurance against civil liability arising from the use of motor vehicles and the enforcement of insurance obligations against such liability, i.e. so-called. the Communication Directive. The implementation of this Directive makes the conditions of insurance, the way in which the damage is eliminated and the amount of the guarantee amount identical in all the Member States of the European Union. Poland has so far benefited from a transitional period which lasted until 11 June 2012. According to this draft law, the minimum guarantee amount is increased and cannot be lower than the equivalent in PLN: in the case of damage to the person 5210 thousand. EUR per event regardless of the number of victims, currently EUR 5 million, while in the case of damage to property - 1050 000. EUR per event, currently EUR 1 million. The same changes will also be made for compulsory insurance of the civil liability of farmers for holding an agricultural holding, i.e. it will cover damage caused by the traffic of vehicles so-called. free-riders held by farmers and used in connection with holding. After analysing the provisions of this project, such an open issue remains, such a fundamental question as to whether these regulations will actually affect the level of insurance premiums in the case of both compulsory insurance and insurance for farmers, although the increase in this minimum guarantee amount is actually less than 5%. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the increase in minimum guarantee amounts applies to all the Member States of the European Union and is made every 5 years. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u173	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking the question? You're welcome, sir. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Certainly, the proposed regulation will speed up the procedure and make the injured more quickly receive the compensation due. However, I have a question as to whether an analysis has been carried out on how the level of guarantees at Community level affects the cost of the policy offered to the Polish citizen. Is this a level correlated with the state of our economic development, and especially with the level of GDP per capita? A large discrepancy can generate not only a disproportionate burden on ordinary Poles, but also reduce economic competitiveness, especially in the field of transport. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u175	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: What is the opinion of the Minister or rather of the Polish Government on temporary insurance of OC? Many people have vehicles such as: are used only during the summer or winter period. They have their own characteristics, because most of the year they stand in the garage. Often these are antique vehicles or antiques. So I have this question: What is the government's opinion about such an idea that all those car owners who are not used throughout the year give the possibility to choose a specific time for which they will pay for such an OC to be able to travel safely on the roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u177	Thank you very much. Please answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u178	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the first question, the level of amounts guaranteed for this type of insurance, i.e. largely OC or autocasco, is regulated by the European Union. It is harmonised at the same level throughout the European Union, so we are committed to implementing this. Does this include Poland's GDP, our economic development? Please note that this is not entirely related to this. Please bear in mind, as regards damage caused by accidents, that treatment, rehabilitation costs or perhaps the cost of creating pensions are not always linked to the economic development of the country concerned. As far as research and rehabilitation are concerned, it is de facto the same. We are aware that the costs of such services are being converted somewhere at European Union level. For this quality to be better, prices must also be quite high. From this point of view it is not so analysed, but please note that this type of action They don't have that much influence either. Please note that the analysis of the PIU concerning the increase of this guarantee sum indicates that the costs of the OC should practically not increase. From this point of view, this specific regulation does not have a greater impact on the activities of transport companies. As regards the question of introducing temporary insurance, this problem has already been analysed. However, it is clear that the risks associated with the introduction of temporary OC insurance for certain vehicles are too high. This type of solution is not recommended. We are committed to reply in writing, because there are many details that need to be presented in this regard so that this answer is complete and understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u179	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the gallery a group of young people from the municipality of Wisznice in the Bial district. We're very pleased you're in the Seym. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft bill on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships (prints No 2888 and 2923). I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u180	Minister! Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill on electronic invoicing in public contracts, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships entered the Sejm on 25 September. On 2 October, he was referred to the committee for first reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at its meeting yesterday examined the bill under review. Six amendments were tabled, including some editorial and legislative amendments. All amendments were unanimously accepted by the committee. The bill was intended for further reading. Just a few more words, if you'll excuse me. The main objective of the proposed act on electronic invoicing in public contracts, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships is to implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in public contracts. In our country, the problem is the low use of structured electronic invoices in public procurement and economic trade. It is therefore entirely legitimate and desirable to introduce into the Polish legal system the law under consideration, which can become one of the main drivers of the development of electronic invoicing, causing the dissemination of this form of documenting transactions first in respect of the execution of public contracts and then in other areas of economic trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u181	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the Government's draft bill on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships, print No 2888. The reason for the above law is to implement the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in public procurement into the Polish legal order. The main objective of the directive is to remove or reduce barriers to cross-border trade resulting from the coexistence of a number of legal requirements and technical standards for electronic invoicing. This objective is to be achieved by obliging public administrations at all levels to accept invoices in electronic form in accordance with the relevant European standard, which are issued by economic operators in connection with the implementation of contracts concluded in the field of public procurement and concessions. Given the nature of the proposed amendments, as well as the variety of areas to regulate the proposed provisions, the most appropriate solution is to include these changes in a separate law. The draft law provides for the regulation of the public procurement process, i.e. the phase from the conclusion of the contract for the award of contracts until their execution, receipt and issue of an invoice. An additional objective is to introduce the possibility of sending structured electronic invoices between IT systems in public procurement as one of the areas of invoicing. Contracting authorities' obligation to adopt, inter alia, e-invoices in an appropriate format, in line with the European standard, will enable the implementation of this Directive and will enable the technical and technological solutions offered in trade to be organised. It should also be pointed out that the invoice is rarely a stand-alone document that occurs in economic trade. And that's what happens. accounting note, corrective note, contract, order, delivery confirmation, transfer-receiver protocol. All these documents are substantially related to the invoice. The proposed law will not regulate matters or affect matters contained in civil law, but will only impose certain obligations on contracting entities, contractors in the performance of public contracts to settle them in accordance with the law on value added tax. In our country, no rules have yet been introduced to require the use of such formalised electronic invoices in the public procurement system. As examples of other countries show, they are one of the main drivers of the development of electronic invoicing. Given the circumstances presented, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed solutions and, after considering any amendments tabled, we do not propose amendments, we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u183	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u184	Thank you. High Izbo! The Act on electronic invoicing in public contracts, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships is the implementation of European Union law and is the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. Since the beginning of the negotiations, Poland has supported this directive, stressing that it will have a positive socio-economic impact. The main objective of the Directive is to remove or reduce barriers to cross-border trade resulting from the coexistence of a number of legal requirements and technical standards for electronic invoicing and the lack of interoperability. In 2015, studies commissioned by the Ministry of Administration and Digitization concerning the impact of digitalisation on the functioning of public administration offices in Poland in 2014 and on the state of e-invoicing in public administration showed a significant extent of the problem of small use of electronic invoices in public procurement and trading. It is important from this point of view to study, it is the report of Leviathan E-invoice in Poland. According to this report, the total number of invoices issued in Poland is 1.5 billion per year, of which only 8 is sent electronically, the others are traditionally displayed, i.e. printed and sent by post. This result is one of the lowest places in Europe, it is about getting used to the paper version of documents because of the fear of losing data from electronic media, imprecise legislation, the prospect of not accepting invoices by the tax office or simply of unwillingness to use the Internet. And although all available research confirms the high awareness of Poles about the benefits of using electronic documents, the use of e-invoices is still very low. We are currently in the 16th place in Europe as regards the number of invoices sent electronically. This is certainly a requirement of modern life, progress in forms of financial settlement, modern administration, as well as ecological thinking about the future. There is no doubt that such changes need to be made and that this directive needs to be implemented. On the other hand, research and consultation carried out with entrepreneurs and local authorities shows, above all, that they are not aware of these changes which directly affect them, which is a difficulty. That has to be taken into account. In addition, they expect the platform provided for in the Act to be simple, easy, intuitive, accessible to people with disabilities. So that taking all this into account, we need to approach the implementation accordingly. The Civic Platform Club is, of course, in favour of implementing the directive, but we must once again pay attention to these reservations, maybe not so much reservations as to some minor concerns of entrepreneurs, and to the lack of awareness of some of the recipients of the directive, in order to ensure that it is properly implemented. But of course we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u185	Now I would like to ask the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the government draft bill on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. First of all, it is about the implementation of the EU directive, so we are obliged to move these provisions to the ground of Polish law. Moreover, dear country, when it comes to invoices, this is the right direction, because it really is the damage of trees and the damage of paper on printing things that can work freely in e-commerce. On the other hand, we should ask ourselves two questions. First: Isn't someone who uses an e-invoice printing it at all, or is it simply the obligation to print an invoice being transferred from the issuer of an invoice to its recipient? Therefore, I think that in addition to these legal actions, the Polish state, the Polish government should carry out a fairly involved information campaign that raises awareness among citizens, entrepreneurs and consumers in this area. The idea is, however, to move towards the electronic circulation of documents, which is still very little popular today. I am not talking about the transmission of documents here, but also about the fact that the entire collection of these documents is not necessarily paper-based. Here again the issue of the functioning of Polish offices is bowed down. Are the authorities so eager to accept the documentation in electronic form, or do they require paperwork? In view of the fact that this directive is not so controversial that it can arouse some great emotions, and that it needs to be adopted, I would point out that we still have a great deal to do to make this e-document turnover in Poland, which is just crawling today, actually progressing faster and faster, because this is also due to our duty to take care of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen! In the explanatory memorandum to this draft law, trade barriers are also mentioned. The point is that these solutions, these rules are meant to make these barriers disappear or be reduced. Dear country, when we are talking about barriers to the free movement of goods, the free movement of services, trade, it is primarily about a transparent, clear, clear tax system. I dare say that we have a big problem with the tax system in Poland today. Many are inclined to think that this is rather a mess. A few moments earlier, we were working on a law that provided for a new, special, lower VAT rate. I have absolutely no doubt about that, because I am always in favour of tax cuts. On the other hand, making the system complicated or reducing its transparency is not the best way to improve quality or facilitate the functioning or business activity of entrepreneurs. Therefore, without raising any special objections to this draft law, which, I repeat, is the implementation of EU legislation, I would like to point out to the State, especially to the governing party, especially to government representatives, that there is still a great deal to be done to facilitate, to create a clear, readable tax system, in which there will be no tens of tax rates, in which there will be no tens of different weird small taxes, taxes, whose cost of downloading and handling is often almost as high as the receipts that they guarantee. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I appeal and encourage. One can say that we really have one more year to work in parliament, one year to run. It's really still a long time. Much can still be changed with regard to the tax system, it can actually be simplified and simplified. And please don't wait until the end so you don't have an excuse that you didn't have time to do anything. We appeal, there is still time, we need to take steps to make it easier, or actually to create a new tax system, because if you look at tax laws, these are simply amendments to the amendment to the amendment. It is high time to build a tax system from the beginning, but as far as this law is concerned, it is non-controversial, so the Kukiz Club will recommend the members of its club to vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u187	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u188	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position on the government draft bill on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. We hereby implement the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in public procurement into the Polish legal order. The implementation of this Directive will increase the use of electronic invoicing solutions in public procurement through the obligation for contracting authorities to accept e-invoicing. What needs to be emphasised is that, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, who will be able to apply this solution, the solution is fully voluntary and therefore does not oblige entrepreneurs to bear any additional costs. This is more addressed to the contracting entities, both from the public sector and from the local government sector. Thanks to the introduction of these standards, there will certainly be an increase in the use of invoices in economic trade, due to the implementation of processes related to public procurement, and the facilitation of participation of Polish entrepreneurs in public procurement in other Member States of the European Union, which also has its positive aspects. There will also be standardisation of the way in which public procurement and electronic invoicing are documented and the costs of operating companies reduced. Undoubtedly, and this should also be appreciated, has been thoroughly examined as this will reduce the cost of using electronic invoices compared to the use of paper invoices. Here we see almost 20% reduction in these costs. Such solutions will certainly also have a positive impact on the development of the domestic non-cash payment market. In view of all the aspects I have been talking about here, the Modern Posel Club will positively vote in favour of this government submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u189	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to say first of all that we will support this project, which implements European solutions to our legal solutions, because this is a good solution. I just wanted to say everything my predecessors said, to quote all these arguments for, because there are few there or there are no arguments at all against it. So I won't repeat myself. The project is needed. We should bet on modern, good solutions, simple, transparent, readable solutions, because it makes life easier for us. Many such things have been introduced to our legal solutions for the functioning of the economy and entrepreneurship for several years. What do entrepreneurs expect? Entrepreneurs first of all want a clear, clear, transparent law, which will be easy to interpret, easy to use. I think that, according to the arguments that have been made here, it gives this possibility, but everything will depend on how we will implement and how we will want to implement these solutions, because sometimes even the best solutions, the most perfect ones, create problems in the implementation or hinder the functioning of entrepreneurs. Therefore, as much good and clear law as possible - that is what our economy expects, and that is the law we should create here in this House - and as little as possible revision of the law, because any amendment of the law in this area causes difficulties, incomprehensibleness, greater need to hire officials to read it, etc., the subject could be developed. The parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u191	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sir, but you're written down. [[It's written down? I'm sorry.]] Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking the question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u192	I have a question for the Minister about electronic invoicing in public procurement. Firstly, is the government administration, because I am talking about it today, prepared to accept applications, i.e. to accept offers, to key and receive them? We understand that there must be a security system. How, on the example of government administration, did you ensure that invoices were securely transmitted with appropriate keying? Has such an element related to the security of transmission of electronic invoices been prepared? Because we remember, among other things. different fields of implementation of electronics and facilitations for citizens. Is the administration prepared in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u193	I would like to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Speaking of e-invoicing, is there anything the Minister can say about planned, requested actions or simply government ideas to promote e-invoicing in Poland at all? We know that, for example. mobile networks have such a strange practice that they add 5 PLN to the bill to all those customers who don't want an e-invoice. They use this kind of bonus or financial incentive. The question is this: What has the government so far taken and what action is to take to promote e-invoicing and promote the departure from paper at all, in the sense of document in paper form, and the transition to the market actually fully digitised, one in which this invoice will not have to be finally printed somewhere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u195	Thank you. Please answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology of Mr Tadeusz Kościński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u196	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As to the question whether we are ready to do so, the project of the electronic invoicing platform is implemented from European funds under the Operational Programme training for public entities that are recipients of invoices, webinars, over 160 meetings with IT producers on how to implement this system. As far as security is concerned, this document is open, but we will ensure that there are adequate safeguards. When I ask if there's a key in there, I'll answer it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u197	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals (Prints No. 2909 and 2927). I ask Mr Jack Bogucki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 16 October, 1 of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, the draft law amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was submitted to the first reading. The project concerns an amendment to the Act relating to agricultural crop insurance, namely that the current method of payment of compensation in the event of a drought risk is amended by the introduction of the so-called. reduction franchises, i.e. the share of the farmer's own policyholder up to 20%, 25% or 30%. This gives farmers the option to choose the scope of insurance and the degree of reduction that suits them under the conditions and at the same time allows them to reduce insurance premiums in insurance companies' offers. The draft was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 22 October this year. and was adopted by the committee without comments. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request the adoption of a draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u199	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the draft law amending the Act on agricultural and livestock insurance, print No 2909. The proposed provisions aim to promote agricultural insurance contracts against drought-related losses, which so far have been concluded by agricultural producers very rarely due to high policy prices. The current provisions of the Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance Act set the agricultural producer's own share in case of drought risk at a maximum of 10%. Introducing proposed solutions in the form of so-called: reduction franchise determined at 20%, 25% and 30% of the amount of insurance will contribute to the fact that the insurance will cover events that pose a real risk to the functioning of agricultural holdings, and not a slight decrease in production productivity resulting from a shortage of rainfall. [[Marshal, there is no minister.]] This will translate into a reduction in insurance premiums. The adoption of the proposed amendments will enable agricultural crops to be insured from one or more selected risks, including the risk of drought, which will allow agricultural producers to obtain compensation at least to the extent that the production costs incurred can be reimbursed. The agricultural producer will decide what level of crop losses he will take as his risk. The transfer of part of the risk to an agricultural producer will allow insurance undertakings to offer insurance for agricultural crops to a wider extent, while the producers themselves will be more motivated to manage the risk on their holding. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft presented and advocates that it be referred to further proceding. Thank you very much. [[Marshal, we ask for a recess, no minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u201	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform, will now speak. [[With a formal application.]] [[There's no minister in the courtroom.]] No, my fellow Member. You're welcome, sir. [[But the Minister isn't here. How do you conduct your deliberations, Marshal? There's no minister in the courtroom. Who's listening to us? Who's listening to us?]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a formal request to adjourn the sitting, to discuss this point until the Minister arrives. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I withdraw the motion, Marshal. [[But he wasn't there.]] The draft law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance is the result of discussion and agreement between insurance companies, farmers' representatives and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Three cases were not settled in the bill under consideration. Firstly, there is no definition of heavy rain, which means that insurance companies do not pay compensation, e.g. for water stands which are treated as a result of flooding, and this risk is not covered by farmers because it is either too expensive or not available in riverside areas. Secondly, we do not have statistics on compensation payments in terms of land characteristics or agricultural losses. Having this information could help to verify the insurance rates applied by insurance companies. Thirdly, the rules for the elimination of damage in the field have not been described, there are no uniform rules even within one insurance undertaking, which results in different interpretations and assessments concerning the extent of crop losses. And that's the problem. Entries concerning the use in drought insurance so-called reduction franchises lead to a low level of coverage of actual agricultural losses where drought occurred. Detailed analyses on the application of the provisions of the draft law were presented by the Wielkopolska Agricultural Chamber. I hope that these calculations are known to the Minister. Let me remind you that according to these calculations, which do not encourage farmers to cover agricultural crops due to possible drought, the increase in the reduction of the amount of compensation in case of drought from the previous 10% up to 20% or 25% , and even 30% the economic situation of agricultural holdings will be adversely affected and the position of the farmer will be weaker with regard to insurance companies when concluding contracts. The proposed changes do not address the problem of covering agricultural production losses resulting from drought. On the other hand, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that by increasing farmers' co-financing of the drought damage caused, activity will increase to reduce the effects of drought by using appropriate varieties of agricultural crops resistant to drought or hydration. In our view, such solutions are not feasible under the current conditions. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister: Is the Minister fully aware that, from 1 January 2019, farmers will be charged for the use of surface water and groundwater for irrigation? And let me remind you that making a deep well is a cost. About 10,000. zł. This example shows that farmers will bear further costs which will make the economic situation of agricultural holdings worse. Minister! Will the proposed provisions on contribution subsidies and the introduction of a new reduction franchise mechanism in the context of the subsequent financial burden on farmers be a solution to encourage farmers to insure agricultural crops and livestock? We would also like to know whether the proposed legislation will actually take into account the interests of farmers or maybe the interests of insurance companies. We would ask for a precise answer to our questions. The direction of the proposed amendments requires detailed analysis. We discussed this during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Without taking into account the proposals that were made during the committee meeting, which today, also on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I am presenting, this project will be an empty law. Therefore, our club will vote against this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u203	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. We are all well aware that agriculture is particularly linked to the environment, the state of the environment and, above all, the prevailing weather conditions. For several years we have seen that every year we are visited by various weather anomalies with increasing numbers and intensity. It's about droughts, water shortages, heavy rains, violent storms, drowning, and very often hail. They cease to be exceptional, extraordinary phenomena, and are slowly becoming annual events that are expected to have a particularly negative impact on agriculture. We cannot pretend that the risk of adverse weather phenomena does not exist, that these phenomena will not pass us by, because examples from recent years show how deceptive it is to hope that this is even naivety. Our task as parliamentarians is to do everything to simplify the entire insurance system, as well as make insurance cost-effective for farmers, not just for insurance companies. This is the third draft law in this term of office that we are dealing with and has the same objective: to encourage, simplify, facilitate the process and scale of insurance. However, I have the impression that we are dealing with wishful thinking and the whispering of reality, because the reality is that farmers are pragmatic and are still not convinced about insurance in the proposed form. According to my many conversations with farmers, and as the Sejm Analysis Office also points out, the attitude towards insurance varies. Some farmers do not cover crops at all, some are insured to meet the insurance requirement 50% crop areas, and therefore are insured against the cheapest risks, i.e. the effects of the rarest phenomena, and only a small group are insured against the effects actually occurring, i.e. serious risks. This bill is another attempt to save the system, which unfortunately does not work. Minister! The agricultural environment expects a comprehensive solution to the agricultural insurance problem in Poland instead of pumping billions from the state budget into a system that does not work. We have reached a critical point and we absolutely need an immediate reform of the agricultural insurance mechanism. I share Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski's view on the creation of a state mutual insurance company or a special insurance scheme against the reduction of agricultural income, which is successfully applied and works in the United States. Modern farming cannot function properly and profit without proper insurance. Building a coherent, comprehensive system of agricultural and livestock insurance is one of the main factors leading to the safety of farms and the stabilisation of farmers' incomes. This is what farmers expect, and I ask the Minister for such solutions, and for my part I declare my assistance and support in the preparation of these solutions. Knowing the urgent need to change the drought insurance system, while expressing the position expressed by Viktor Szmulewicz, President of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, I will recommend the members of the Kukiz Club to vote in favour of this project. At the same time, I would ask you to present in the near future a comprehensive reform of the insurance system so as not to lead to a situation that occurred in the Netherlands, where only 2.5% farmers buy agricultural insurance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u205	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u206	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Currently, farmers mostly do not opt for crop insurance against the risk of drought due to very high insurance premiums. The aim of the project is to reverse this trend, but it is mainly based on the assumptions of the designer. Now the designer proposes in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 point 2 of the draft law, which states that compensation may additionally be reduced by 20%, 25% or 30% of the insurance amount depending on the amount of the reduction indicated in the insurance contract. It can therefore be concluded that the farmer will pay a much lower premium if he decides to insure his crops, e.g. from the risk of drought, will choose to reduce insurance by 30%, i.e. to take on the risk of loss due to drought up to 30%. In a situation where the damage to the drought is 30% or less, the farmer will not get a penny, he will be compensated if the damage is more than 30%. The government promises that farmers will be able to apply for subsidies for insurance contracts concluded from the government. If, under the same conditions as before, the amount for this purpose should be secured in the State budget. However, it is not known what the amount is. Insurance companies did not participate in the consultation, it is not known what contributions, what amounts will be charged and whether insurance companies will actually compete with each other, trying to provide farmers with the most favourable model of insurance against consequences e.g. droughts. You can't even guess how many farmers and which option the proposed reduction will choose. Therefore, the projector did not provide data on expected levels of compensation, e.g. at the lowest insurance rate. It is therefore not possible to assess the results of the law and, above all, the real benefits for farmers. According to the Office for Sejm Analysis, the implementation of the statutory provisions may be linked to the need to incur additional expenditure from the state budget, which was not planned by the projector. As in the case of very low compensations which may be incurred by farmers after the entry into force of the Act. Farmers have repeatedly called for the national budget to secure compensation. This project raises a lot of questions and doubts about the expected effects, it is a list of empty wishes of the designer, who would like these rules to make farmers' interest in concluding agricultural insurance contracts against the damage caused by drought more and more. It may be, but it is not the solution that farmers expect from the government. As a result of these changes, the government would like farmers to take action on the protection of crops against drought, among others. by irrigating fields or selecting plant species that will be more resistant to drought. Meanwhile, the government itself does very little. The National Council of Agricultural Chambers rightly stresses the need for clarification and popularization among farmers of these changes, otherwise projectors may remain completely unfulfilled. In Poland, droughts occur regularly and will become more severe due to obvious climate change. We need to think about the operation of the so-called. a small retention that could save farmers from oppression in the heat. Meanwhile, the government is planning a huge river sewer project and the construction of large reservoirs. The government must take steps to implement comprehensive aid measures for farmers in the face of climate change. To sum up, this project may have a good attitude, maybe it's a good direction, but the project itself is completely, completely missed. Therefore, the Modern will vote against this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u207	I now ask the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u209	You, sir. I'm sorry, there's her, not him.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u210	I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to remind you that, in fact, since gaining full freedom, since 1989, when, at the request of agricultural unions, compulsory crop and animal insurance was abolished, for the last 29 years, unfortunately, we cannot all deal with this problem as a political class. I understand that we have been discussing droughts for the past six months and that there is a need for some sort of emergency solution that would prove that the government is taking care of the problem that farmers have experienced, but unfortunately this project does not solve this problem. I would like to point out that the announced drought aid, which is three times higher than in 2015, unfortunately looks bad in implementation. Promised at Jasna Góra 1000. PLN up to 1 ha of drought compensation has turned into decisions for which farmers get almost 90% claims in the amount of PLN 250 to 1 ha and only a few insurances in the amount of PLN 500. That's $1,000. I think they might forget. I would also like to say that this is not only a matter of insurance of crops and animals from climatic events, it is not only a matter of prior coverage, but also later, at the request of agricultural trade unions again, with the separation of these risks. All of this is in my view still non-comprehensive actions, apparent actions and it is high time, in the framework of the 2015 national agricultural programme, to approach the issue in a really complex way. I think that, above political divisions, the issue of compulsory crop and animal insurance should be re-examined, as is compulsory in the case of third-party insurance. What I'm trying to say is that the wrong message to farmers is that crop and animal insurance is supposed to be paid by insurance companies. Well, if that were the case, these companies would go to the Minister of Agriculture every year, because the Minister of Agriculture has this budget, and they would fight for these insurances, and we have a situation in which two, three, four companies have been involved in this process for a dozen years, it's really a mountain. So they don't have any profit, they don't have any interest in it, and they have an extra problem. In order to reduce the level of contributions, it is really necessary to consider the issue of universality, but the universality of genuine, mandatory and not the universality of the EU, which speaks of 50% of crop and animal insurance. I also have an appeal to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, because he is talking about the necessary arrangements for insurance of agricultural income. Well, he's on the committee, and you have a draft law on mutual fund guaranteeing agricultural income. Perhaps it is worthwhile that you mobilise the Minister for Agriculture to finally pass on his opinion to this project and that we also lean seriously on this problem, because in my view, we should first take care of the commodity farmers who would participate in this mutual insurance scheme against the risk of loss. So much is still ahead of us, and since the proposed project is only incidental, seemingly related to the failure of the government to cope with the effects of the current drought, my club will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u211	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking the question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski, Law and Justice. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u212	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Law and Justice Government has helped Polish farmers many times more this year than in previous years. However, when granting aid to farmers for drought, farmers asked me to provide information on the problem of payment of State aid for droughts on grassland which are on agricultural land. Insurance undertakings shall not cover grassland, including permanent grassland or grassland on arable land. In this case, they indicate that the reduction of State aid should be waived. Does the government anticipate a solution to this problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u213	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u214	Minister! Aren't you ashamed of this project? Aren't you ashamed of this project that doesn't solve the problem of aid to farmers in the field of insurance? Because it's a shame. In 2017, no funds were used for insurance subsidies of about PLN 100 million. Aren't you ashamed? Isn't it a shame for you to cheat and not pay the drought compensation today? Minister, aren't you ashamed? I would like to talk about this debate. The PiS colleagues strongly criticized 2010 when the flood was the biggest. At the time, we were faced with much more damage in buildings, in crops. We managed to pay about 10 billion for the damage. I ask you, Minister, how much was paid for the drought? Because the money that's been raised... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...definitely isn't enough to pay compensation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u215	Thank you. I ask you to ask Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! And isn't that what you're ashamed of? You have a problem with the insurance bill. Speaking of which, Minister Bogucki, who is the representative here in this bill... It's hard to say because you didn't handle the previous law in February. [[Applause]] Because of your delays, farmers didn't get frost compensation. You're the one who filed the bill too late. And now you're putting in something you can call one sentence: it's putting out a fire with gasoline. As for the fire you have with drought, this law is not enough that it doesn't settle anything, it puts the farmer absolutely - as it has been said - in a worse situation than insurance companies. Firstly, farmers must agree to a larger share of their own, which means they will not receive compensation. And the question, Minister: Do you know the calculations of the Greater Poland Agricultural Chamber, what will this matter look like with regard to the farmer? The farmer will lose almost PLN 250. Tell me if you know the math. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Greater Poland Agricultural Chamber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u217	I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In presenting the club's position, I paid attention to the wrong direction in which the insurance laws are going. I was talking about Holland. We were there as club president. Such a system as it is in Poland has led to the fact that only 2.5% farmers are insured. We hear beautiful declarations... [[Why are you voting for this?]] Madam President, I am disturbed, I have not disturbed, so I would ask for respect for this House. We hear beautiful declarations about how we want to help farmers, how they will cover themselves. Just my question: When will there be a comprehensive farm insurance bill? Not patching up again this law, which is, only a holistic approach to insurance, so that not only 20% are insured farmers, only to make it universal and profitable primarily for farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u219	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, how does it happen that despite 65% of state funding, farmers do not cover themselves and do not do so at all? And according to European Union legislation, there should be 50%. insured fields. So in our case, there should be 5 million ha, and there's 3 million with a small hook. Why is this happening? Why do farmers not want to reduce their risks in agricultural production? This is the risk that the State in this law has put in place by means of reducing franchise in the drought, and will not solve this issue. These are too small things, thoughtless, superficial, this is a mess of previous things. That's too bad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u221	Now I ask you to ask Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, why did you agree that this bill should enter into force without vacathio legis, since the National Council of Agricultural Chambers requested that this project be discussed in many agricultural environments, in organisations, in farmers' unions, in trade unions? It was decided that there would be no discussion on the popularisation of this insurance system. It's amazing, all the more so that there's a new mechanism and a new drought insurance. We believe that this is an absolutely big mistake, because this project will not be known to the farmer. Was this about pre-election propaganda again to show that there was a law? After all, you know very well that this project will be an empty law, and that is why we only repeat it, it will have no reference to practice. That's why I'd ask you to explain this case. And why the decisions and positions were not respected [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Agricultural Audit Union of Production Cooperatives? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u223	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about profitability. Do farmers even pay such high contributions? What is the average premium of 1 ha in case of drought risk insurance? How many farmers have been insured since drought? What are the average compensations? Since it may be that farmers would like to be insured, they would probably like to drive new tractors and have everything new and beautiful on their farms, but in a situation where they have to fight for survival in fact, and most of the money that they get from selling the goods they produce is spent on keeping their business on the day-to-day, maybe they just don't have anything to pay for these insurances anymore. Perhaps the State should actually consider how to help these farmers, and not necessarily how to make their lives difficult. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u225	The question will now be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is to be welcomed that, in the end, the rules on agricultural insurance are moving towards dissemination and flexibility. Isn't it true that farmers are among the best calculating entrepreneurs in Poland and giving them more opportunity to match insurance policies will certainly be beneficial? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Who wrote this to you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u227	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development by Mr Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards changes in the current risk of drought regulation, the introduction of a new solution concerns the way in which compensation is paid in the event of a risk of drought and consists in reducing compensation by 20%, 25% Or 30% of the insurance. The introduction of reducing franchise will contribute to the fact that a wider group of agricultural holdings will be covered by drought risk insurance, insurance undertakings will be able to reduce the insurance premium if insurance contracts containing drought risk are offered. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the compensation payments are concerned, I think this government has something to show for, because we have at the moment, on 23 October, a total of over 72 thousand payments made. for a total amount of 448 733 000. Minister Sawicki compared this to the 2015 payment. Practically this total amount paid in 2015 is already paid. In addition, 17 payments were also made for fish ponds. The Member here referred to shortcomings concerning the non-action of the law as regards frosts in 2017. Madam President, I would just like to correct this information so that in 2017 we paid PLN 142 million as regards frosts. Mr Sachajko compared our system to the Dutch system. Mr President, it is only necessary to make it clear that, under the Dutch scheme, agricultural insurance payments are only and exclusively under the rural development programme. There is no so-called. grants from the State budget. For the time being, in the year 2018, we have signed agreements with five companies that deal with agricultural insurance. This is the value of PLN 560 million. In 2019 we also predicted the operation of this law in this area, so-called. drought insurance, and additionally 90 million were designed in the budget, so that this mechanism could also be much more effective. Mr Ajchler finally pointed out that there is such a provision in the European Union resulting from the European Commission's regulation on insurance of 50%... [[Duty.]] ...farming, because the Member has so far been in committee, as there have been any debates on drought aid, he has never noticed this, and you have always asked why this condition is 50%. This is the regulation of the European Commission, precisely No 702, Article. 25. As far as shortening this vacathio legis is concerned, I do not hide that we are primarily concerned that these insurances and this reduced franchise should also concern the autumn campaign, i.e. the possibility of insurance also for winter plants in relation to the autumn campaign. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 65% This is the implementation of the Law and Justice Programme, so that it is clear. [[Reported in 2015 by PO-PSL.]] By the end of 2015 there was 50% It's just that you guys had 200 million zlotys for these insurances in total in the state budget and in the autumn campaign usually, as it was... [[Voice from the room: It was already in our time.]] ... In 2016, because you were planning this budget, we had less than 30 million and had to move from reserves so that this campaign could be implemented effectively. Hence, among others. so much programmed in the state budget just this amount. Minister... [[What's the point of lying? What's the point of lying?]] The government of the Civic Platform and PSL was not enough money for agricultural insurance. You paid up to the maximum 200 million PLN. We've increased that amount, I'm not hiding it, just to spread the insurance. Minister, for the time being, once again, 448 million has been paid. You paid 471 million in total. [[250 zł to 1 ha, not 400.]] And that's the fundamental difference. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u229	Thank you. In the context of the corrigendum by Mr Ajchler. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I don't cover 50% in my career. , only 100% the area of cultivation since there is a Union and an obligation. That is not true, what you said, that I do not know what my duty is with regard to the European Union. On the other hand, there is one other correction. Minister, the state budget is spending 500 million on insurance, but we don't know yet. - and I ask for an answer - how much it goes directly to the farmer. Thank you very much. [[Also corrigendum, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u231	But you weren't mentioned, sir. [[What do you mean, I haven't been replaced? Minister Sawicki has been exchanged many times by you.]] [[What if it isn't? We heard.]] [[Multiple times.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have not been exchanged. [[No, I was named by Minister Romanowski.]] [[Voice from the hall: He was, he was.]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, Marshal, we have heard.]] [[Voice from the room: How was it not?]] I don't think so, but you're welcome. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm gonna check it out tomorrow, and I understand that if it turns out that I was right, you're gonna admit it to me, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u232	You're welcome. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, 65% the payment was not introduced for the PiS, but for the coalition of the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform. And secondly, you say farmers get, as Minister Ardanowski of Jasna Góra said, three times as much. This I ask: For the uninsured 400 zł surcharges up to 1 ha in 2015 is less than 250 zł paid by you now? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u233	Please, Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Between 200 and 717 thousand. And 560 million is the difference in crop insurance? [[Up to one ha.]] Minister, with regard to the regulation that you have been preparing, which we have been updating, that is one fundamental difference. The state paid the funds at a minimum of 30% of the farm's losses, considering animal production, which was not available... [[It wasn't true either, because it was changed.]] ...that's why you've only paid 470 million, and most farmers haven't made any payments at all. And that's the difference. So face the regulation that you have signed and implemented, and the regulation that is being implemented at the moment, because the availability of these measures is much greater... [[But there was no drought like that.]] ...and farmers will have less than 500 million, and PLN 1.5 billion will be paid. [[250, not 400.]] It's a really big difference. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u235	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 on the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the government draft law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws (Prints No. 2919 and 2932). I ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to present a report from the Health Committee on a draft government law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. The Health Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 23 October 2018, invites the High House to adopt its report without amendments. I would like to stress that this law is very beneficial for older people, aged 75+. The financial limit for 2018 was 643 300 000. PLN, while the 10-year limit is 8 274 600 thousand. zł. The amending act proposes to increase both values by PLN 50 million. We want to increase the financial limit and adapt it to the extended scope of the 75+ programme. The operation of the 75+ programme is the implementation of the State's commitments to the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u237	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Anna Czech, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u238	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No 2919. This draft amending act is intended to amend the article. 7 Act of 18 March 2016 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. Firstly, this concerns the amount of funding for medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices covered by the 75+ programme foreseen for 2018. The second amendment is to amend the principle of adjusting the correction mechanism where it concerns a change in the risk of exceeding the limits fixed for the subsequent years of implementation of the 75+ programme. As the rapporteur said, the expenditure limit for 2018 is 643 300 000. PLN and in the 10-year funding period it will amount to 8 274 600 000. zł. In the Act we change, increase these values by PLN 50 million. This is due to the need for an extended range of funding, because the 75+ programme is simply very well implemented and there is a need for an increase in funding. This need to increase funding directly translates into the health situation of older people and indirectly into the economic situation. This is indeed part of the implementation of the State's commitment to the elderly. According to Art. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Older people's constitutions should be surrounded by the particular concern of the state in the field of health protection. This is how public authorities try to implement this provision of the Constitution. The second amendment modifies the corrective mechanism governed by Article. Paragraph 7 Paragraph 4 (2) of the amended Act. It provided for a recovery mechanism to amend the list and now another solution needs to be implemented. Where any of the four quarters of a given year exceed the equivalent of 25% the expected limit for this year, this mechanism should be increased to 35%, because the implementation of this programme is not strictly 1/12/1/12: in one month the funding amounts are higher and in another month the funding will be lower, so this will be more favourable. It shall also ensure that the list can be properly monitored and limited, i.e. expenditure of the appropriations as provided for in the year in question. In the light of the above submissions, the Law and Justice Club supports the solutions proposed in this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u239	Thank you. Ms Beat Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform on the draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Two amendments are proposed here: The first is an increase of PLN 50 million in the funding pool of the medicines 75+ programme. It will look like that between 2016 and 2025 up to an amount of 8 324 600 thousand. PLN and in 2018 of 643 300 thousand. to 693 300 thousand. zł. The second amendment concerns the so-called. the correction mechanism and raises the correction rate from 25% to 35%. As regards the increase in funding by PLN 50 million, the explanatory memorandum states that this is due to the well-being of the budget, so that money can be allocated for it, which we agree with. This is a good direction, although the justification does not indicate why this amount, 50 million, was accepted and whether it corresponds to increased demand e.g. It's for medication. For example, in 2017, only 95% of all funds were spent, and so far it has not been shown how this is progressing in 2018. This does not indicate why it is such and not another amount. It is also difficult to understand why the amendment concerns only 2018 and not the following years in view of the lack of information on the situation in terms of demand for medicines free of charge for people 75+ due to the lack of justification for the draft proposal. In other words: What happened in 2018, that it was decided this year, and it is October, to increase the envelope by 50 million, which is exactly the same as for the whole period by 2025? It should also be indicated that the Ministry of Health in accordance with Article. 43a The Act on Public-funded healthcare provides the scope, i.e. the so-called. the pool of medicines covered by the 75+ programme, and thus partly shape the demand for products covered by the scheme, which affects the amount of expenditure from the State budget for this purpose. The current draft law does not in any way involve inefficient spending, nor does it respond to possible inefficient spending on medicines, which, in my opinion, means that, in the absence of, and in the absence of, control mechanisms, increased limits may mean proportionally greater waste. Therefore, the Civic Platform will vote in favour of this project, despite the doubts I have put forward, but also amends the possibility for POZ doctors and professionals to prescribe such prescriptions that allow them to receive medicines from so-called. 75+. Marshal, I'm handing over the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u241	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project has basically three objectives. The first objective is to set the amount of the financial limit foreseen for the year 2018 for the funding of the 75+ programme, i.e. for the financing of subsidies for medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices available free of charge to recipients after the age of 75. The second objective is to amend the overall maximum limit of appropriations for this purpose for the period 2016 to 2025. The third objective is to amend the principle of the corrective mechanism, which is applied by the Minister of Health in the event of a risk of exceeding the limits set for the implementation of the 75+ programme. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that it is necessary to adapt the funding limit to extend the scope of the 75+ programme, since the increase in revenue from the tax sealing system will allow for an extension of the list of medicines available to the beneficiaries of the 75+ programme, which in turn requires an increase in the envelope for its operation. However, in its opinion, the Sejm Analysis Office notes the following: the justification for the project does not indicate any figures on the budgetary expenditure incurred in 2018 for the financing of the 75+ programme or estimated the expected increase in budgetary revenue. There's no explanation for the mode... This law is dealt with as a matter of urgency and there is no explanation as to why it was introduced in such a procedure; therefore, there was no consultation and no opinion on this project. However, as it is possible to improve this law at this stage, the Kukiz Club15 does not object to this proposal being submitted for further legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u243	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the draft law from the Parliamentary Printing Act No 2919 amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. First of all, I would like to stress that this is the first time that I have seen any coherence between government action and the declarations made. Despite the assurance of a sound budgetary position, it has been impossible to increase expenditure on any health programme in the interim. I appreciate this initiative, but I would like to make it clear that it is probably not by chance intended for one of the flagship programmes of the governing party. In Poznań I regularly meet with seniors. I very much appreciate this cooperation, which allows me to better diagnose the needs of this environment. Of course, the very idea of the 75+ programme, which makes it easier for seniors to access drugs, is right. The development of this project is desirable because, at the outset, the list of medicines that older people could benefit from left much to be desired. However, with the proposed increase in spending on this programme, I expected the health resort to be able to identify the real needs of seniors for medicines covered by the total refund and to determine to what extent these needs are met. Unfortunately, in the justification for this bill, I do not find this information. It is therefore difficult to state clearly what the Office of Sejm Analysis points out, whether the proposed amendment is sufficient. My doubts are also raised by those provisions which lay down the rules for triggering the 75+ programme's expenditure limit in a given year. Experts point out that the proposed changes are not adapted to the specifics of the government programme. In a situation where the need for medicines will decompose unevenly and e.g. expenditure limits will be largely used as early as the first half of the year, which may result in a reduction in the list of free medicines for the elderly. Despite these comments, any action to improve the quality of life of seniors and seniors should be supported. Modern will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u245	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Mr PSL, the Union of European Democrats will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats is and will be in favour of continuing the work on the government bill amending the law on the amendment of the law on healthcare provision, contained in print No 2919, in accordance with the report presented by the rapporteur. It is good, it is important that we make sure that support for seniors can be wider, and that the list of medicines and products covered could be extended, because so God and the truth we know that she looks quite modest and great announcements shrinked after the conversion of this amount into the number of seniors in our society. But since the situation of the budget is as good as we, as Members of the opposition, are pleased, we will support this work so that it continues and that these provisions are adopted as soon as possible. Nevertheless, a question should be asked. Since we are here to agree to the government's proposal, to the suggestion that this work should be carried out quickly, we should receive information that is quite broad and comprehensive in many matters. The Minister here suggests adding some quotas. First of all, we have no idea why only this year, why not next year. What event or events have occurred this year, which cause or suggest such support? Is it just because we have a good budget situation or not? Nor do we know at what stage is the use of funds, the amounts that have been allocated for the current year. I think we should at least talk, since there are no other reasons, as well as what this list of medicines will be extended to. I think we have a chance today from the Minister or the committee to find out, so we are in favour of continuing our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u247	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. No one needs to be convinced that the Government of Law and Justice, during its three years of government, has given special care to Polish seniors. The bill under review concerns one of the flagship projects of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki - the program Leki 75+. Its aim is to support seniors aged 75 years and older by providing them with free medicines. Faced with the increasing needs of older people, this amendment increases the spending limit for this purpose in 2018 from PLN 643.3 million to PLN 693.3 million, i.e. by PLN 50 million. I am pleased that today we can proceed with a law increasing the amount allocated to a drug program dedicated to the oldest members of our society. I have no doubt that this is an action that helps to improve their health and economic situation. It is a great satisfaction for me, as chairman of the Committee on Senior Policy, that the Polish authorities remember the seniors and meticulously implement the State's obligations to the elderly, which oblige us all to take special care in protecting their health. Thank you for this amendment and I believe that we will be able to allocate more resources to all prosenior actions. About Free and Solidarni fully supports the bill and will vote in favour of increasing drug quotas for the oldest Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u249	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that there's gonna be more drugs now that people over the age of 75 get free is really fantastic. On the other hand, I am interested in the following thing. The project estimates how this funding will change over the years. If we look at this data, we'll see that it's not expected to grow high, it's just that... The annual supply of these drugs has been falling for years. Meanwhile, demographics are expected to grow more and more people over 75 years of age. How does that relate to these measures? Why this is not determined according to the principles of demography, i.e. how many people over the age of 75 will be calculated [[♪ The bell ♪]] in 2025? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u251	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u252	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have two short questions. The first is that... Maybe I should say first that, of course, we are very pleased in general that 75+ people can receive free medicines, but we are still concerned about how the Ministry analyses the effectiveness of the funds spent. These are public funds and, without a doubt, what health effect we achieve by spending this public money is not meaningless. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister: Who exactly and using what methodology is studying this efficiency? My second question is to issue prescriptions, and I have tabled an amendment just now. Why doesn't the Ministry want doctors to be able to issue these types of prescriptions as well? This would stop this journey of peoples, which is now, from doctors to doctors, only to write a specific prescription. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u253	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u254	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a brief question: What changes and in what space for a particular patient will the amendments proposed in the 75+ project lead to? What will the beneficiaries of this project bring, especially those who are probably watching us now? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u255	Thank you. The list of Members to be put to the floor has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Marcin Czech to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u256	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! I'm answering Professor Chybick's first question. As far as growth is concerned, they have already been recorded in the relevant law, and these measures will systematically increase. This is a 50-million-dollar budget for the 75+ reimbursement of medicines only occurs this year, while we have saved amounts for 2019 - 733 400 thousand. PLN, for 2020 - 836 000 000, 2021 - 953 100 000 and 2022 - over 1 billion. And this 50 million is, of course, taken into account in all these increases. So that we take into account demographic change, in proportion to increasing the pool of funds that can be used to finance the treatment of the elderly. With regard to the question by Mrs Małecka-Libera, which concerned the effectiveness of the action, the effectiveness of the programme is assessed primarily by assessing the declining financial barriers, especially in the group of seniors, in the 75+ group. Looking at data on the level of co-payment of patients in Poland, it is getting lower, as the World Health Organization suggests. When it comes to a group of seniors, it is a particularly privileged group, a group that is surrounded by special care. This is apparent directly from the Constitution, and therefore for this group an assessment of the effectiveness of the action is effective. If we treat efficiency in a more primary or tough way in a pharmaco-economic sense, which is to extend life, then this is a multifactorial analysis of factors that affect life expectancy. This is not only about treatment, including not just about pharmacological treatment, so such analyses require very complex epidemiological planning. Frankly, we discussed whether it would be possible to calculate what part in Poland is allocated precisely because of this variable, which is to reduce barriers to effective and safe pharmacovigilance. When it comes to how this efficiency is being tested, we are still monitoring the programme itself month after month and quarter after quarter and extrapolating this pool of funds that is spent on 75+. However, please note that it is subject to very many modification factors. For example, seasonality is such a modification factor. There's a market game, there's a system that makes seniors choose these, not other drugs. There's habit, there's doctor behavior, there's marketing of pharmaceutical companies. Very many factors influence the fact that we are dealing with fluctuations month to month, quarter to quarter. Hence our proposal, it seems reasonable to change this correction mechanism. And question three. I'm sorry, but the question was why doctors can't issue S-prescriptions. At the moment in Poland we are dealing with a family doctor, a doctor of first contact, who stands at the heart of the system. It is also a person through whom entry into the system should take place, especially in the case of the elderly, whose treatment, treatments, including pharmacological treatment, ordained by other specialists should be monitored at this point. This point in the system is best suited to look at the risks associated with interaction in terms of polypragma, also the use of OTC medications, about which the family doctor may be informed. The next point is the lines to the family doctors. Either they're gone, or they're the smallest in the system, hence unburdening specialists and directing seniors to first contact doctors, family doctors who have the whole picture of therapy, often associated with the multi-morbidity of the senior. It seems to matter a lot. As much as possible, suggestions and amendments can be automatically implemented at a time when we will have a generally accepted prescription system which is now being disseminated. Then this family doctor will be able to see exactly what other specialists are ordaining. He will be able to decide in his office what could potentially be dangerous for the sick. Then we will certainly consider joining, for example, geriatrics in this pool of people who should write recipes for seniors. It seems that the benefits associated with the fact that seniors will be sent to doctors of first contact, that they can be treated comprehensively, are many times greater than if they have to go to the doctor of first contact after a visit with a diabetesologist. Please note, of course, that all specialists have a full refund system. Therefore, it is not so that seniors are excluded from this generally applicable refund scheme. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! The last question, Mr Piotr Pyzik, what are the changes and how the beneficiaries are here. Your marshal asked me for a quick and concise answer. I would not like to take up a lot of time, but these are all groups of medicines for which patients achieved a very wide extension in May. These are, for example, thyroid hormones, small-moleculated heparins, small-moleculated heparins, some antibiotics, oral medications used in obstructive respiratory diseases such as. Theophylline, inhaled short-acting anticholinergics, long-acting, inhaled corticosteroids, inhaled long-acting beta-blockers, also complex products, inhaled beta2-adrenergic agents, opioid analgesics, antiepileptics, anti-intestinal anti-inflammatory drugs, selected aminoglycoside antibiotics. I replaced some of them. These are all those groups of drugs that seniors, 75+ patients, will have or have free access from May. It was really a very significant extension, which still applies. Despite these unjustified media reports, this will continue in this and next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u257	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia (prints No. 2916 and 2925). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media during which we discussed a draft resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia. The draft resolution was examined and adopted unanimously on 22 October. I would like to quote the text of this document: The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of... 2018 on the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia. Following the spirit of solidarity between the nations of Poland and Georgia, on the 10th anniversary of Russian armed aggression on the independent Georgian state, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to commemorate these tragic events. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland resembles the first military aggression of the neighbouring country in the post-war history of Europe on the sovereign state and the occupation of its territories, as well as the historic visit of the dead. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński in Tbilisi on 12 August 2008, which was an unprecedented expression of support for Georgia's independence. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland opposes any action aimed at interfering with the sovereign right of the authorities in Tbilisi to exercise sovereignty over the territory of Georgia, and strongly condemns the killing, kidnapping, torture and other acts of violence against Georgian citizens in occupied territories. I move for this resolution, this draft resolution by the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u259	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Elżbieta Raven, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 November, 10 years from the date on which the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński and the President of the Republic of Lithuania Valdas Adamkus made a joint declaration concerning the withdrawal of Russian troops from Georgia. The Presidents confirmed their commitment to Georgia's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity at its internationally recognised borders. They concluded that the ceasefire agreement of 12 August 2008 had not been fully implemented, in particular as regards the points concerning the withdrawal of Russian troops to pre-conflict positions and the provision of free access to humanitarian aid. This anniversary prompts us to remember the aggression of the Russian Federation's armed forces against Georgia in August 2008, one of the most tragic events in Europe's recent history. Let us remember that it took place in time for Georgians special, filled with joy and pride after the victory of the Rose Revolution. She brought brutal violence, despair and mourning with her. Let us also mention a significant visit to Georgia of the then President of Poland, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, together with the leaders of Estonia, Latvia, Ukraine and Lithuania. Lech Kaczyński decided to gather four regional leaders and organized the flight to Tbilisi without hesitation. Better than anyone, President Kaczyński understood the threat to Georgia from Russia's aggression. He knew that there was a need for immediate, clear opposition to Russia's violation of international law, the right to self-determination of nations and the independence and integrity of Georgia's territory," wrote the head of the Foreign Ministry, Jacek Chaputowicz, in August this year. These are the memorable words of Professor Lech Kaczyński from these days: The visit of five presidents in Tbilisi means solidarity between five countries and the people who fell victim to aggression. An aggression that is nothing new in history. One can say that the Russian state has once again shown its face, the real one. It makes us very sad. And we also know very well that today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow of the Baltic States, and then maybe also time for my country, for Poland. This event showed the foresight of President Lech Kaczyński's view of the political situation of Central and Eastern Europe. However, it would not have happened without his personal great courage. It was also beautifully included in the history of the Polish-Georgian friendship. The words that President Kaczyński made on 12 August 2008 in Tbilisi appear to remain valid. Let this resolution be an expression of friendship and solidarity with Georgians and an indication that the Polish Sejm is in favour of the development of friendship and cooperation between Poland and Georgia, which he expressed by adopting a resolution on the establishment of the Polish-Georgia Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u261	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the draft resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia, print No. 2916. Russia's invasion of Georgia and the occupation of South Ossetia and Abkhazia took place in August 2008. This war meant that a worrying place appeared on the map of European and global security. Recalling this aggression, it is important to recall the tragedy of thousands expelled from the home of families, hundreds of killed and wounded. 10 years after the aggression, the illegal occupation of Georgia's territory continues, violating international law and a principle-based international system. To this day, the issue of restoring the unity of the country is not resolved. However, it is hoped that the efforts made by the international community will restore Georgia's integrity, sovereignty and independence. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club wishes to commemorate the victims of this cruel war by supporting the draft resolution in a gesture of solidarity with the country and the Georgian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u263	Thank you. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz,15 will speak. There isn't. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. There isn't any either. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to agree with what is written here in this resolution. I ignore the fact that I do not really understand the reason why we have the anniversary of this war with a solemn resolution of the Seym to celebrate. On the other hand, I will only draw attention to the obvious errors and nonsense in this text, which was prepared by the PiS. Namely, we wish to recall the first military aggression of the neighbouring country on a sovereign state in the post-war history of Europe. Well, some complete amnesia, ignorance. How can you write something like that? I will mention just a few examples: and the GDR in 1953, and Hungary in 1956, and Czechoslovakia in 1968, and Ukraine recently, and Serbia's invasion of Croatia? Well, in Europe after the war there were at least a few, depending on how to count, armed conflicts and invasions of states. So just total nonsense. I don't know why we should fake history. Can't you guys write anything so you don't lie? The most obvious things, it seemed, non-conflictal, non-controversial, must be broken. Next line. I'm skipping the visit that two ladies from the PiS were getting divorced about. Historically, she wasn't. Yet another lie. Well, Russian aggression was preceded by Georgian aggression in South Ossetia. Unfortunate, thoughtless. Mr. Saakashvili didn't know why he invaded Ossetia, then ran away, almost had to retreat until the Russian troops came to Tbilisi. He had to run, the Georgians were running. It was only President Sarkozy's intervention that stopped the Russian march on Tbilisi. This Russian aggression, of course, was caused by Georgia's reckless policy. This is the next case. In a brief resolution, so many mistakes were made. It's hard not to be surprised. This resolution then strongly condemns all murders, kidnappings and tortures against Georgian citizens in occupied territories. That's right. But what does that mean? That you do not condemn others, i.e. other slow? Homicide, kidnapping. What's the point of distinguishing? It seems to me that we are generally, that the Polish Sejm is, at least, an excellent majority, maybe with the exception of the PiS, against murders, kidnappings and tortures, unless there are good and bad murders and tortures for the PiS. For this reason, due to absolute unnecessaryness, harmfulness, missing the truth of this text, the PSL - UED Poselski Club will not support this PiS resolution. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u265	Thank you, sir. As there are no questions to this item, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws (print No 2877). I invite the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u266	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! By presenting you with a draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring system and some other laws, I would like to briefly present the context of the project and the solutions proposed therein, and then point out the most important changes that this project brings to the existing legal order. In 2014, the Resolution Directive for credit institutions and investment firms entered into force, i.e. the BRR Directive, which was the answer to the main problem identified in connection with the recent financial crisis. Afraid of the negative effects of the bankruptcy of financial institutions on the financial system and the economy as a whole, many countries around the world have decided to rescue insolvent, vulnerable entities using public funds. In view of the huge scale of the costs of these interventions for state budgets and thus for society, it was necessary to develop a new approach in which public authorities would have the necessary tools and powers to restructure such institutions in the event of financial institutions' problems, and the costs of action would be borne primarily by the risk institutions themselves and the owners and creditors of those institutions and not by taxpayers. Such solutions were contained in the BRR Directive, which was implemented in the Polish legal order under the Act of 10 June 2016 on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the Deposit Insurance Scheme and the Forced Restructuring. By virtue of this Law, BFG, which has so far been primarily responsible for the protection of depositors and merely supporting restructuring processes carried out in certain entities, has also become an authority for forced restructuring and has therefore been entrusted with new, additional powers related to forced restructuring activities. Together with the BRR Directive, the 2016 BFG Act also implemented the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive, so-called. DGS Directive aimed at strengthening the protection of depositors and greater harmonisation in Member States of solutions already existing in this area. In order to enable the compulsory restructuring process to be carried out, the BRR Directive introduced an obligation for credit institutions and investment firms to comply with the minimum own funds requirement and so-called "own funds requirement." eligible liabilities, i.e. liabilities to be remitted counter to the ranking of creditors in insolvency proceedings for the purpose of recapitalisation of the institution, commonly called. bail-in. In practice, however, these regulations have proved inadequately precise and have created uncertainties and limitations for the efficiency of this process. Inclusion in the bail-in process the category of claims of different types of instruments, i.e. subject to and not subject to bail-in, generated a risk of the occurrence of claims against creditors that would be treated worse than in the standard insolvency procedure. Against this background, in the absence of a uniform approach at EU level, some countries have changed their rules on the hierarchy of unsecured senior debt under national insolvency laws, leading to disharmonisation at EU level and uncertainty for both issuing institutions and investors. The experience of the Italian banks has shown that, in some cases, the lack of sufficient eligible liabilities to MREL prevents this restructuring process from being carried out, so-called. resolution. The answer to these problems was the Directive adopted at the end of 2017 on the degree of preference of unsecured debt instruments in the hierarchy of claims in insolvency proceedings, so-called. Directive BCH amending inter alia BRR Directive. The BCH Directive introduced a new category of debt claims, so-called debt claims. non-privileged debt, and identified the place of that debt in the hierarchy of settlement of claims under insolvency proceedings. The emergence of a new category with the possibility of issuing new types of debt instruments is intended to facilitate institutions' compliance with the MREL obligation and thus improve the resolution process for the use of the bail-in instrument. It should be stressed that the proposed law aims primarily at the timely fulfilment of national adjustment obligations in the form of implementation of the above mentioned provisions. Directive by 29 December this year. by amending the Law of 28 February 2003 on insolvency law. Therefore, a new category of non-privileged debt is introduced, so-called. a minor non-privileged debt, which in the insolvency law hierarchy will be in category six - it is currently category nine - so that the current categories from the sixth will be shifted accordingly. The new debt group will constitute bonds as well as other negotiable debt instruments, provided that they fulfil a number of conditions laid down in the proposed legislation. These conditions are as follows: the term for which the bonds are issued shall be at least 1 year, the contract or the terms of issue shall clearly specify the category of settlement of claims under bankruptcy law, the instruments issued shall not result from derivatives or structured financial products. In addition, an important condition is among others. that the nominal value of a single bond cannot be less than 400 000. zł or the equivalent of that amount expressed in another currency. This is aimed at securing non-professional investors who should not purchase risky instruments as an alternative to deposits. The situation on the Polish financial market is stable and so far there has been no need for forced restructuring, the initiation of which is subject to compliance with the conditions laid down in the provisions of the Law on BFG. This does not change the fact that the continuous development of the financial market and the phenomena observed therein, potential risks, constraints and opportunities determine the need to improve functioning solutions. Also in the case of solutions adopted in the Law on BFG over 2 years of application of the provisions of this Law, some difficulties or interpretation doubts have been identified. In addition, the need to supplement or refine existing legislation in certain areas has been recognised, including taking into account the European Commission's observations in the framework of the review of the transposition of EU legislation. In the light of the above, it is worth pointing out that the proposed law provides for the systematic exclusion of mortgage banks from the provisions on deposit guarantee schemes and related obligations and charges for information, financial, administrative and other purposes, as mortgage banks they do not accept deposits, provide guarantee protection to the BFG for the funds collected in the bank accounts for the advice of parents working at schools for which such accounts may be maintained under educational law - so far the rules have not allowed such protection; extend the options for managing the BFG's financial resources in the investment area by introducing the possibility for BFG to place free funds in the deposit with the Minister of Finance. Another important change is to allow the use of the compulsory restructuring instrument so-called. the bridge institution in the restructuring of the merging bank and the introduction of an improvement enabling the establishment and start-up of an accelerated bridge institution in the event of a crisis in the entity. In the context of the changes that have been made to reduce legal obligations, it has been proposed, inter alia.: to reduce certain legal and operational constraints related to the use of compulsory restructuring instruments and the banking activities of the Guarantee Fund, for example: in the restructuring of the pool bank by means of a bridge institution instrument and in the process of consulting potential buyers of restructuring banks and cash; introducing the possibility for the Bank's Guarantee Fund to limit the implementation by smaller banks for which it is not planned to apply compulsory restructuring instruments, certain information obligations on the fund. High Izbo! In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Poland, the adoption of the proposed law should increase the security of the banking sector in Poland. In the long term, the proposed solutions will increase the security and stability of the financial system, thereby reducing the risk of public funds being involved in rescuing those who are threatened with bankruptcy in the future. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I ask the High House to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite you to the speaker of Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u268	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to print 2877, the amendment of the Banking Guarantee Fund Act is largely a continuation of the work we carried out last year on the implementation of EU directives, the BRR Directive, the DGS Directive, i.e. the resolution directives of banks, financial institutions, as well as the directive on the protection of bank clients, bank deposits. Of course, the reason for all this was the already famous 2008 crisis, when it was realized that, however, Nowak rules, i.e. that when a financial institution comes to bankruptcy, the costs of it are simply borne by society and customers. Then they began to look for new solutions. There are different assessments as to whether those proposed in these EU directives are actually 100 per cent effective, but it is certainly some form of search for an impact on these activities, on public finances, so that they are not burdened with such events, not to mention customers, depositaries. Hence these ideas for greater participation of bondholders, etc. However, this is not entirely certain either, because the situation mentioned here by the Italian Minister shows that there are serious problems in the bond area, too, which may affect financial stability in the state. The aim of the project is to improve the current arrangements related to the functioning of the provisions on compulsory restructuring and the deposit guarantee scheme and the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, because the BFG Act introduces a large number of changes, a number of changes, and these are important changes, such as those mentioned by Minister Nowak of the system for the exclusion of mortgage banks - as they do not actually carry out deposit operations, so it seems fully justified here. It is also a question of improving the restructuring of the pool bank in the form of the possibility of setting up bridge institutions, the functioning of the deposit guarantee scheme, the obligation to extend the options for managing the BFG's financial resources, the possibility of some cross-border use of these guarantee funds of banks and banks, the correction of certain restructuring provisions also for cooperative savings and credit banks, the extension of the scope of acceptance of information on the acquired entity, the regulation of matters relating to contractual clauses, etc., etc. These are undoubtedly important issues, but also changes concerning certain definitions, certain concepts. This is e.g. the introduction of a definition of an associate bank, but also a revision of the definition of a significant entity. I have already mentioned restructuring of cooperative cash registers, providing the fund with the possibility to join the procedure of adopting a group forced restructuring plan, the possibility of imposing fines for failure to provide information or not to fulfil an obligation by the entity concerned. It is a large, relatively important piece of legislation. Let us hope that this will significantly improve the operations of the Banking Guarantee Fund, because it is an important participating institution, one can say, in some form, indirectly or through representation, in macro-prudential supervision of the financial market. It is fully needed and important, so we should start working as soon as possible on amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u269	Thank you, sir. I would like to invite you to the speaker of Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform presents its position on the draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The draft submitted is the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. According to the reasons for the amendments introduced by this draft law, they respond to the need to increase the efficiency of the instrument for redemption or conversion of liabilities. The project contains de facto amendments to the implementation that took place last year and complements the previous implementation of the BRR Directive. It introduces exemptions for mortgage banks, establishes resolution regimes for cooperative banks, changes the order of settlement of claims after the bankruptcy of the bank. In general, it is about correcting previous errors with a very large transposition. I do not make a charge of this, I even think that in principle it should be so that after a large transposition there should always be some calibration, after a year or two, because some things come out only in practice, during the application of a given law. In the project we have solutions to facilitate the rescue, management of the mass of failing cooperative banks. It seems that other banks will be more willing to lend money to the bank in a crisis situation. One charge. The amendment strengthens, does not change, but strengthens the collection of funds from BFG bank funds for payments to SKOK clients. I always said it was unfair to bank clients. The previous targets remain, which are different for SKOK and for the bank, so we have 1.2% versus 0,1% in restructuring funds and 2,6% versus 0.8% in favour of SKOKs, of course, in guarantee funds, where of course the level of deposits collected is based. The Civic Platform Club proposes that the bill be passed to the Public Finance Committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u271	Thank you very much, Member. As far as the Kukiz club is concerned, 15 I do not see Mr Jakub Kulesza. In that case, I would like to ask Mr Michael Jaros to present the position of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u272	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement concerning the Government's draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws, print No 2877. The proposed regulation is, above all, an improvement of the current solutions and the implementation of European law. She wears, among other things. the separation of the additional debt category and the position to satisfy creditors in the event of bankruptcy of the bank. The project also ensures compliance of national regulations with EU state aid rules in the case of restructuring cooperative savings and credit banks. This draft law also aims to improve the functioning of the rules on compulsory restructuring and the deposit guarantee scheme. The positive aspects of this regulation deserve attention, among others. simplified obligations for certain institutions. The regulation also eliminates any doubts as to what funds and contributions to which entities are excluded from guarantee protection. It is also appropriate to clarify the rules on the take-over instrument and to introduce the possibility of converting undertakings under the take-over instrument. However, there are issues that need to be considered. The economic viability of the guarantee fund's placement in the deposit with the Minister of Finance may be feared. As the Polish Bank Association rightly claims, the solution proposed in the bill can be controversial, especially in the context of having a majority of votes in the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund by representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Among the changes requested in the consultation are also a change in the regulation of a lack of membership of the banking sector representative representing the main payer of contributions to the Banking Guarantee Fund on the Fund's Board. In view of the doubts raised, the Modern is in favour of further work on this project, as this will allow verification of the properties of the solutions used. The current situation with regard to the matter regulated by the project requires an appropriate response and it is therefore advisable to analyse and clarify the changes to the various provisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u273	Thank you, sir. I invite you to present your position on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee system and the forced restructuring system and some other laws, print no. 2877. The draft law is the implementation of Directive 2017/2399 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 amending Directive 2014/59/EU, which established a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, and amending Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. It's so-called. a BRR directive aimed at increasing the efficiency of the instrument for redemption or conversion of liabilities. The proposal harmonises terminology, refines rules and, above all, introduces substantive changes, e.g. exempts mortgage banks from the deposit guarantee scheme - it is simple because mortgage banks does not accept deposits - improves the restructuring of the association bank by creating a bridge institution, corrects the provisions of the Banking Guarantee Fund for the restructuring of cooperative savings banks, guarantees cover bank accounts of parents' councils at schools, reduces certain restrictions on compulsory restructuring and corrects the implementation of the article. 45 and Article 45 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 55 BRRs which offer the possibility to request additional conditions for own funds and eligible liabilities. In general, the proposal amends eight laws of Polish law by implementing the directive. The project is very extensive in its content, detailed, written not very easy language. Due to the harmonisation of EU law, the commitment to implement EU directives, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats is in favour of directing the project to work in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u275	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in this item has been exhausted. Do you still want to speak? No. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm forward a draft law amending the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws on printing No 2877 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 7 November. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the act on tax on goods and services (Print No 2904). And this is where I have to announce a recess, and I'm running it five minutes to see when the minister gets here. [[Voice from the room: Fifty thousand as an account will affect this...]] [[Voice from the O.R.:...not working.]] After five minutes, I hope we resume the session. [[Voice from the room: It's expensive to value...]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 27 hours 16 min 28]] In such a situation, I will resume the session. We continue to consider item 11 of the agenda. I invite Minister Filip Świtała to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Excuse me, I was at the public finance committee meeting, which is why I'm late. I would like to present a print project No. 2904, i.e. draft law amending the act on tax on goods and services. This is a project which partially implements two directives: Directive 2016/1065 of June 2016 concerning vouchers for goods and services and Directive 2017/2455 of December 2017 concerning value added tax for the provision of distance sales, distance sales of goods and services. Member States are required to implement both Directives by 31 December 2018 and to apply those provisions from 1 January 2019. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments resulting from the implementation of Directive 2016/1065, hereinafter referred to as the voucher or voucher directive, aim at simplifying, modernising and harmonising the VAT rules applicable to vouchers for goods or services. This problem has not yet been regulated at EU level and the directive we are talking about harmonising the rules for using two types of vouchers. The first type are single-purpose vouchers, i.e. one-purpose vouchers, and the second-purpose vouchers are multiple-purpose vouchers. As far as the first type is concerned, we have a voucher of one purpose which will be taxed at the time of its issue, i.e. the transfer of that voucher will be treated as if the service had been performed or the goods were delivered. On the other hand, for vouchers of different destinies, so-called. Multipurpose vouchers, they will cover different goods, you will be able to purchase different goods for them, different services and therefore the use of such vouchers will be treated as if the payment had taken place, i.e. the transfer of this voucher will not result in a duty on goods and services tax. Such vouchers are quite often used in economic practice, e.g. it may happen that the employer issues such vouchers to employees, for example. They could have dinner at work at break. The aim is to harmonise and make it a little easier to use these facilities. As regards the second Directive on the provision of services and the sale of goods at a distance, our implementation involves electronic, telecommunications and broadcasting services provided to consumers from other Member States. Some minor simplification is introduced, which will involve the provision of services, the supply of such electronic services at a distance, i.e. if. someone provides streaming or sharing services via websites, then he will not be required to pay VAT in the country where the service is provided, only in accordance with the simplification introduced will he be able - if he does not exceed the amount of 10 000. The euro, which in our implementation represents a threshold of 42 000. zł - pay this VAT in our country. Therefore, he will not have to register in the country where he provides services. At the moment there is already such a convenience, which is referred to from English as mini they stop shop, i.e. one which causes that someone who provides a distance service in another country can, instead of registering in that other country, using this mini they stop shop, here in Poland, via the website to pay a tax which is due in another country where they provide services. In fact, this facility, which we are proposing at the moment, concerns the introduction of this threshold of 42 000. zł. The proposed law is to enter into force on 1 January 2019, which is consistent with the date set out in thebon Directive and in the Directive on the sale of services and goods at a distance. The proposed law is in agreement with the law of the European Union. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u277	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to invite Mrs Iwona Michalek, representing the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft Law amending the Law on VAT on goods and services, print No 2904, provides for amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on tax on goods and services intended to implement Directive 2016/1065 of 27 June 2016 and Directive 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017. The purpose of this first Directive, i.e. 2016/1065, is to simplify, modernise and harmonise the VAT rules applicable to vouchers for goods or services. Currently, in the absence of regulation at EU level and in the absence of a number of case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, Member States apply divergent rules on the taxation of vouchers for goods or services. In order to ensure a uniform approach, to remain consistent with the principles of general consumer tax and to avoid inconsistencies and distortions of competition, double taxation or non-taxation and to reduce the risk of tax avoidance, it has become necessary to lay down specific rules applicable to the taxation of vouchers for VAT goods or services. The introduction of rules specifying the taxation of vouchers is also important in view of the rules on the place of supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services, electronic services applicable from 1 January 2015. It is necessary to ensure that there is no inconsistencies with vouchers delivered between Member States. Directive 2016/1065 introduces the definition of vouchers for goods or services and distinguishes between their types and regulates the rules on taxation of transactions using vouchers as well as the taxable base for vouchers of different uses. That Directive refers to a voucher for goods or services defined as an instrument with which it is obliged to accept it as remuneration or part of the remuneration for the supply of goods or services and for which the goods or services to be supplied or performed are indicated in the instrument itself or in the related documentation. In practice, vouchers will acquire more and more features that characterize payment instruments. With such instruments, it is necessary to check individually whether the definition of the voucher is met. When using a voucher depending on its type of VAT it will be charged at the time of transfer of the voucher or at the time of use of the voucher. VAT charged related to the voucher, e.g. for the costs incurred in the design or printing of the voucher, it may therefore, as a general rule, be eligible for deduction by the issuer of the voucher on a general basis relating to VAT. The provisions of the Directive do not concern situations where a voucher of different uses is not executed by the final consumer within the period of validity of the voucher and the remuneration received for such voucher is retained by the seller. There are vouchers of one destiny and vouchers of different destinies. I'm not going to talk about them anymore, the Minister said it. I also want to talk about Directive 2017/2455. Provisions in Article. 1 of this Directive is primarily aimed at reducing the costs and nuisance of VAT accounting for telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services. In short, I would just like to say that the proposed laws have a major impact on micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in terms of regulating the taxation of goods and services vouchers on goods and services, which will guarantee taxpayers legal certainty and a uniform approach to VAT rules. This is relevant when it comes to changing the qualification of certain prepaid cards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was also mentioned by the Minister. I just want to say one more thing that the rules are due to enter from 1 January 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u279	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel to present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u280	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services. As has already been said here, the aim of this project is to implement two directives. The first relates to distance selling of goods, of course it concerns value added tax in the case of the provision of services and the sale of goods at a distance, and the second relates to vouchers for goods or services. I Member States are required to adopt and publish provisions by 31 December of this year and to apply them from 1 January 2019. So there are two spheres. The first is to amend the rules on taxation of the provision of telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services to non-taxable entities in the Member States of the European Union which make it easier for traders providing such services. These facilitations relate to the case of the tax settlement of such services using a special procedure, so-called. a small one-stop shop. Invoices to document such services will be issued in accordance with the rules in force in the country in which the trader has registered for the purposes of this procedure, and traders who do not have a registered office in the Union or permanent place of business, but registered in one of the Member States for tax purposes, shall be given the opportunity to use a small one-stop shop procedure outside the Union. In this respect, the proposal is a correct implementation of the Directive. It is worse to implement a third facilitation whereby service providers established in only one Member State of the European Union should be able to tax their telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services to non-taxable entities from other Member States in their own Member States, i.e. service providers, a country, if the annual value of such services does not exceed a certain threshold - here the Minister said - at the level of 10 000. Euros. The project completely ignores the issue of changing the place of supply of services to Polish consumers by service providers from other Member States whose value of services falls within the tax threshold according to the rules of the State of their establishment. Thus, the project is unfortunately a incomplete implementation of the Distance Selling Directive and this is a threat of double taxation. How? The service will be taxed both in Poland, on the basis of art. 28k paragraph. 1 and in the Member State of the service provider, under the internal rules of the service provider State implementing the Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 directives as amended in conjunction with Article. 44 directives. This is because the project does not say anything about services provided to Polish consumers. That's the key question. I have a number of minor reservations, but indeed of an incomparable weight with the weight of this objection. With regard to the second issue, namely taxation in the context of the use of vouchers, this deserves [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a positive assessment, although it also requires some additions and modifications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u281	Thank you. I invite Mr Grzegorz Długi, who will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz club15, I wanted to briefly present my position on this bill. The law is intended to implement the directives already mentioned and mentioned. We have nothing but to support this, to support further discussions on this subject and to continue our work. However, we would like this work to aim for greater simplification of these rules. The fact that we have to implement these rules is obvious. The fact that we have to regulate it and define vouchers as such is quite obvious, too. On the other hand, it is possible to discuss how and whether we are once again exceeding the scope of the directive or whether we are once again increasing taxation where the directive does not require it. I mean, in the end, the ambiguities that have arisen with regard to the taxation of unrealised vouchers. The bill's kind of changed at this point. Of course I'm talking about these multi-purpose vouchers. In any case, I think that further work will be possible to clarify some things, as well as to change the provisions so that they are clearer to the average entrepreneur. Let us note that these provisions will apply to a large part of the small entrepreneur, mainly as regards this e-commerce. This, however, is very often a small businessman who simply trades from home. He doesn't exceed those limits either. We have to make his life easier somehow. The more we can simplify these rules and their wording, the easier it will be. In any case, we support the continuation of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u283	I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, who will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u284	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position on the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. Today's government submission concerns the need to amend the law on value added tax in connection with the implementation of two directives of the Council of the European Union. The first Directive deals with the harmonisation of the rules on taxation of goods and services, the issue of vouchers for goods and services, and the second Directive regulates the provision of certain services and the sale of goods at a distance. The amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services introduces a definition of a voucher, a voucher of one purpose and a voucher of different purposes and the principle of taxation in the case of trading these vouchers. In the opinion of the designers, these provisions are intended to simplify the provisions of the Goods and Services Tax Act and to harmonise the rules on taxation in the case of use of vouchers, but it should be pointed out at the outset that the definition of the voucher proposed in the Act should be clarified. In particular, there are ambiguities as to whether the voucher is a means of payment or a discount and whether the voucher can be issued in non-cash form. There are still a number of other doubts raised by a number of stakeholders who have consulted this draft law, while all these opinions are reflected in the Ministry's claim that clarification is in the explanatory memorandum, clarification is in the directive. The Ministry even refers to the fact that a taxable person, if he is still in doubt, may benefit from an interpretation of tax law. Is that really why we are creating the provisions of the Goods and Services Tax Act and for this we are sitting here in the Sejm to refer the taxpayer to individual interpretations? Shouldn't individual interpretations only be a really unique element in the application of tax rules? Both the Ministry and the High House should focus on creating rules that are clear and clear to entrepreneurs. We are all aware that Polish tax law, the teaching of this law, is based primarily on a literal interpretation. So, do you want to start with a conflict between the fiscal apparatus and the entrepreneur and then send this entrepreneur to the Court of Justice of the European Union to obtain a position on the basis of the provisions of the directive? Is that what the simplification of the tax system is supposed to be? So that I take this under consideration by the Minister and the High House during the work on the proposed bill. As regards the second implementation, in principle the explanatory memorandum also provides for simplification of obligations relating to telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services for non-taxable entities, i.e. consumers located in Member States other than the service provider. My predecessor spoke a lot about this point. I fully share the Professor's doubts. As there is little time to address specific issues, I would like to thank and on behalf of the Members' Club Modern proposal to refer the bill to further work on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u285	Ms Genowefa Tokarska will present her position on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, print No. 2904. As has already been said, the project concerns the implementation of EU law, these two directives. The first is Directive 2016/1065 of June 2016, which refers to vouchers for goods or services. The second is Directive 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017 relating to value added tax in the case of the provision of services and the sale of goods at a distance. The first of these directives, i.e. Directive 2016/1065, introduces the very definition of vouchers for goods or services, distinguishes between their types, regulates the rules on taxation of transactions using vouchers, and determines the tax base for vouchers of different uses. The project eliminates inconsistencies concerning vouchers delivered between Member States. Member States shall adopt and publish by the end of December at the latest. the laws, regulations and administrative provisions which will be necessary to comply with both of these Union directives. On the other hand, the implementation of Directive 2017/2455 will simplify VAT obligations relating to the provision of telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services to non-taxable persons located in other Member States of the European Union than a service provider. The proposed solutions assume a threshold of 10,000. EUR 42,000. zł, referring to the annual net value of electronic services provided to EU consumers from outside Poland, to which taxpayers will be able to account for VAT according to the rules applicable to domestic transactions. The project lays down invoicing rules for this category of services when service providers settle in so-called. a small one-stop shop in accordance with national rules. The bill was subject to consultation. Many comments were submitted to the project from various institutions, including the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation, the Confederation of Leviatan, the Association of Employers Business Centre Club, the Association of Employers of the Internet Industry, the Polish Chamber of Information Technology and Telecommunications. Many questions, doubts, interpretations have been raised by these institutions. Not everything has been explained. I believe that the work in the Committee on Public Finance will lead to clarification of all these doubts. That's why my club is in favour of directing the project to further work on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u287	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Therefore, since there are no more speeches from Members at this point, neither does the Ministry's representative speak, and I close the discussion. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, contained in print No. 2904, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 20 November 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019 (print No 2915). The report is to be presented by the Undersecretary of State, Mr Tomasz Robaczyński, but unfortunately it is not yet in the plenary room. So I'm in charge. A five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 57 hrs. 16 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 12 of the agenda. I invite the Undersecretary of State of Mr Tomasz Robaczyński to present a report on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you a draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2019. The draft law submitted is reflected in a measurable correlation between the amounts included in the draft State budget for 2019 and the arrangements contained therein complement the next year's budget and ensure its proper implementation. In short, I would like to present the most important regulations that are contained in this project. As I say, the amounts resulting from these arrangements have already been included in the draft budget of the State, while these rules govern, technically, allow the implementation of those assumptions which have been included in the budget. First of all, the project envisages defrosting the base of the social benefit fund compared to the previous year. These solutions will concern, first, teachers for whom it is proposed that in 2019 a write-down to the occupational welfare fund for teachers should be made on the basis of the basic amount of 1 January 2013, secondly, pensioners and pensioners, i.e. Former soldiers and police officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, CBA, Border Guard, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service. The draft law proposes that in 2019 the write-down of the Social Fund should be based on the measures planned in the 2013 Budget Act for pensions. These solutions, of course, also apply to the occupational social benefit fund of the other professional groups. In this case the basis for calculating the write-down will be the amount of PLN 3278.14. This means that the basis for the calculation of the share social benefit fund, the average monthly salary in the national economy, in the second half of 2013 increases by PLN 116.37 compared to the amount of 2012, which was the basis of the last budget, which gives rise to an increase of 3.68%. As a result, the basic copy per employee will increase by PLN 43.64. It should also be noted that in the case of the budgetary sphere, i.e. Budgetary units of budgetary establishments, expenditure on the occupational welfare fund are compulsory, while for other employers the rules for the creation of the fund depend on the number of persons employed. As far as wages are concerned, we do not generally provide for a freezing of wages. As you know, as already presented in the presentation of the draft state budget for 2019, the base amount is increased, while the draft around budget law provides for the maintenance at year level of the current basis for determining remuneration for persons employed in entities subject to the provisions of the Law on the formation of remuneration rules for persons managing certain companies. Thus, the provision concerns the members of the management and supervisory bodies of companies whose shares are held by one of the four groups of entities, i.e. The Treasury of the State, local government units and their associations, legal entities or municipal legal persons. The Act also provides, for teachers, for a regulation similar to that of the previous year, which will allow flexible planning of funds for the professional improvement of teachers. This will allow for flexible spending in the budget of the Minister responsible for Education and Education, while at the same time it will not have a negative impact on the performance of teacher training tasks. It should be noted that MEN teachers acquire EU funds for professional improvement and that they are used in the first place. In addition, the project provides for the establishment of funds for the teacher's prize fund for their educational achievements in the voivodeship budgets and in the budget of the Minister responsible for education and education at the level of appropriations in 2018. Further provisions in the proposed law provide for the financing of post-graduate traineeships and specialization training of doctors, dentists and specialization of nurses and midwives from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. According to the Fund's financial plan, the draft budget law adopted by the Council of Ministers for 2019 is foreseen to implement the above mentioned. the target will be transferred to the amount of 2 243 053 000. zł. Within these measures, as this year, the costs of handling this task will also be covered. The Fund also provides for the financing of the cost of reimbursement of salaries paid to young workers employed under a contract of employment for the purpose of professional training and social security contributions on the remuneration reimbursed. It is also proposed in the draft law to maintain continuity in the operation of a pro-efficiencies system to support the remuneration of employees of district labour offices by means of the Labour Fund, while maintaining the link between the amount transferred and the efficiency of the labour offices' activities for the activation of the unemployed. This concerns the amendment of the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. The funds for the above-mentioned measures the target is planned in the draft financial plan of the Labour Fund for 2019. The Act also provides for a number of solutions which allow the financing of specific tasks from State-owned special-purpose funds, e.g. This includes financing the preparation of national team players to participate in international competition in Olympic sports through the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture or financing part of the tasks related to state IT, such as the maintenance and development of systems and state registers, the reconstruction and modernisation of the Integrated Register Infrastructure, and the tasks related to cybersecurity from the Fund - Central Vehicle and Driver Registration. We propose that also in 2019 the Article should not apply. 37a Act on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels, which provides that specific actions and promotion and assistance in matters relating to liquid biocomponents and biofuels and the promotion of green transport can be co-financed by the Minister responsible for Energy of 1,5% planned in the previous year for excise duties on motor fuels. It should be noted here that the Law of 6 June 2018 amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and Biocomponents and Certain Other Acts has been set up as a State Special Purpose Fund, which is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Energy. The draft law also provides for a provision providing a material basis for allocating part of the resources available to the Minister for National Defence to finance expenditure in 2019 relating to the modernisation of the equipment of the services under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration in the field of transport equipment, weapons and special technology, IT and communications. The same provision concerns the financing in 2019 of expenditure related to the prevention of the negative effects of pilots deficit in the Helicopter Medical Rescue Service and the modernisation of the aircraft transport team in the Air Rescue Emergency Service in Warsaw. As regards the tasks carried out by the Minister responsible for the Environment and by the Minister responsible for Water Management, the proposed provisions in the proposed Act allow for the payment of part of the cost of contributions to international organisations, i.e. to the European Space Agency and the European Organisation for the Operation of Meteorological Satellites, from the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In addition, the proposal provides for an extension of the application of Article. 310 Act implementing the Law on Higher Education and Science, i.e. allowing the transfer of treasury securities to universities which are funded by public universities and thus increasing the range of entities entitled to receive them. In addition, the draft also proposes a provision restricting the application of the Article. 316 (1) and (2) of the Law on Higher Education and Science only in respect of two of the five streams of statutory grants, which means that in 2019 only funds from grants for the maintenance of research potential and the activities of the basic organizational units of universities, scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences, research institutes and international scientific institutes consisting in carrying out research or development activities and carrying out tasks related to them financed under the internal competition procedure can be accounted for by universities. Once again, I would like to stress that all these assumptions, which have been expressed in the proposed law, are in fact complementary to the draft state budget, which is already being processed in Parliament, i.e. that they complete this next year's budget, for 2019, and ensure its proper implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u289	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite you to present your position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by Mrs Gabriela Mastowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019, on which the Sejm is working, in print No 2915 contains amendments to several laws, which provide for the correlation of the provisions of those laws with the provisions of the draft budget law for 2019, mainly as regards the amount of expenditure, thus enabling the proper implementation of the budget. The Minister has presented in very detail the various amendments to the laws, which we, as Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, of course, support, are absolutely necessary. I will only draw attention to the issue of financing specializations and post-graduate traineeships of doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. For this purpose, a total of PLN 2 243 053 from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is planned in the draft State budget, representing more than 80% of the total amount of PLN 2 243 053 from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. expenditure planned. This is quite a large amount. Apart from the importance of financing traineeships and specialisations from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, I would like to say that there may be concerns about whether the fund will have such large resources and can be used as a sustainable source of funding for these tasks in the coming years. Therefore, at this stage, there may be a systemic reservation for this type of financing. I hope that the government will work on solutions replacing existing sources of funding that have been in place for years. This amount remains for 2019. The issue may be problematic in the future, as expenditure on medical training is increasing, the number of places for students in medical dorms, medical and dental studies is increasing. The number of specialisations, traineeships and therefore the amounts needed to finance this task will also increase in the future. I fear that this may exceed the possibility of financing this from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I submit a positive opinion on this draft law. We will vote in favour of it, as these are the solutions necessary at this stage for the implementation of the state budget next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u291	Thank you. Just in 2019, that's right. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! Minister! It was my honor to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club an opinion on the budget bill. I would like to say that somehow in this case I agree with Mrs Masłowska that the solution introduced is incidental. It is not known how the government will manage in the future, for the next year, with solutions to the problem, among others. specializations and post-graduate internships in the case of nurses and doctors. We're trying to solve the problem by spending money on it from the Labour Fund. These funds from the Labour Fund should be used for a completely different purpose. In this case, it is worth discussing this in the Committee on Public Finance to know if the funds from the Labour Fund will be reduced. That's the first point. Here's another point. The Minister very quietly said in this Chamber that we do have a frozen welfare fund. This will apply to what you yourself indicate in the justification of this project, 8765 thousand. persons. However, the freezing and fixing of this remuneration base for 2013 is a freezing against workers. The social benefit fund for teachers is smaller on the basis of the basic amount arrangements for 2013. In the case of e.g. Retired soldiers, policemen receiving pension benefits, or fire department officers have a lot of savings. If the Minister had pointed out what this frozen amount and amount would have been without freezing, because unfortunately we don't have that calculation... So the government is trying 8750 thousand. employees are deprived of full benefit from the social benefit fund. Why am I talking about this? This instrument was used in a crisis situation. You haven't leaned over the solution to this problem. Another issue is the issue of spending money on modernization of police, fire department in the amount of about PLN 500 million from the funds of the Minister of National Defence. You talk about it everywhere, and you emphasize it, but the military, with national defense resources, where you can take your money. And the case is connected, among others. with salaries, with educational resources. They are also calculated on the basis of frozen social benefits. We are also surprised, and on many occasions there has been a discussion in this Chamber, taking into account labour market issues and the demand for workers, an approach to allocating additional resources for the activation of the labour office staff. In this case, in the committee, we will want to know what efficiency you want to achieve through this, in a situation where labour shortages in the labour market are definitely high. Finally, I would like to say that we will be in favour of directing this project to the finance committee in order to continue working on it, but we do not agree to freezing the welfare fund, we do not agree that some of the money from the national defence is intended for the modernisation of the police, the fire department. You should look for other means. Health benefits financed by the state budget - the amount of PLN 198 million seems insufficient for us to meet the needs, among others. as regards resident doctors, specializations of nurses, post-graduate internships, as well as salaries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are in favour of directing this project to continue to process, taking into account our comments and preparing the answers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u293	Thank you. I invite Mr Blaze Parda to present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the website we can read that the project is about enabling the funding of the Physical Culture Development Fund to carry out tasks related to the preparation of national staff for participation in the Olympic Games, the World Championships and Europe, but as we are already familiar with the entire law, it turns out that the articles are from a bunch of and in fact the financing of sport in preparation for the Games of PLN 20 million is the least important in the whole of this law, because the remaining amounts go into hundreds of millions of zlotys, and this was not mentioned at the beginning. Since we are at sport, of course we think that we need to finance as much as possible, but we would be in favour of a permanent mechanism and providing the best possible funding for our athletes who will be successful in the Olympics or in the world championships. This certainly has a huge impact on our physical health, because it encourages us to play sports, which is then less expensive for us to visit a doctor, because we go there less often, but it also has tangible effects on the success we achieve, the attitude towards life, the business we have. If we are able to show that we Poles are more successful, then it translates into different areas and it is certainly for the benefit of all of us. The last element is the promotion of the country, i.e. tourism. There is a reason why the United States, China and Russia spend huge amounts of money to make teams and Olympics successful. They must be for the country to thrive and develop evenly. So much for the cover topic, but the ladies and gentlemen, going further, is the information that PLN 151 million will be spent on the state's IT systems. I couldn't read much more of it. Tell me exactly which way it's going to be redirected. I understand that these are some savings in the form of CepiK funds that have not been fully used. In the case of the Biocomponents Act, biofuels are informed that this will reduce the expenditure of the state budget by PLN 500 million. I do not know if it will reduce, because knowing life, they would be on a similar level, but I understand that there is no need to promote biocomponents. If that is the case, perhaps it is worth considering removing this article so as not to create unnecessary paperwork. Finally, we can also learn that the project will have an impact on the economic, social situation of families, people with disabilities, older people, it is expected to increase the write-downs for social funds for workers and pensioners of uniform services from 2012 to 2013 only that I think it will be 2019 in a moment and we are increasing from 2012 to 2013. A little of these levels are virtual and unnecessary. So let's change this methodology, since these levels are just so that we can write and choose any year. In a moment, the level of 2013 for 2019 will be entered. I don't think that's what the legislator was talking about when he created this mechanism to juggle these levels on the principle that if we have this year, it should be that level. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u295	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Many interesting things can be read from this around budget bill, but one is completely incomprehensible. The way the Government of Law and Justice manages funds, often allocating funds for purposes other than those to which they have been set up, makes the whole policy of managing funds of different funds more and more inquisitive. An example is this around budget law. The Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is, let us remind you, a special-purpose fund from which money should be spent on the loss of wages by employees following the insolvency of their employer. The funds of this fund are mainly used during periods of economic downturn where companies are faced with various problems arising from crises. But what you've done with this fund about this year and the following year is just completely draining the fund's money for a completely different purpose. An example: the planned expenditure from this fund for this year, which is obviously incompatible with the purpose and purpose, is the amount of PLN 2700 million, while this year's revenue of the fund is PLN 476 million. And now is the key question, how will the money of this fund look after the rule of law and justice, because my various calculations show that after 2019 in the fund's register there will be PLN 0.5 billion and the situation... What they're gonna do... Of course, there are goals that are important and more important. Revenues, excuse me, dues planned this year in the fund are intended for post-graduate internships and specializations of doctors, nurses and midwives as well as salaries and contributions for young workers. Last year they were used to finance benefits and pre-retirement benefits. We know what the goals are -- I replaced them at the start -- and these are important goals, but these are problems that we need to solve systemically, not accidentally pull out money that have a completely different destiny. I also wonder what's next, because if the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is emptied, the same goals will remain for next year, and the money in this fund will be gone. There will be little money in the event of a crisis for those objectives that the Fund should actually pursue. The same is true in many other cases. It has occurred that in the case of the Labour Fund, you had to rigidly write down in the Act that, without the approval of the Minister of Finance, the expenditure provided for in the Fund's financial plan could not be freely shifted, but as part of the spending of funds from the European Union... This shows what internal problems you have: the minister comes, and no matter what the purpose of the fund is, he writes down what he's going to spend his money on. To the extent that you have to block, in order for some resources to remain available for those objectives which are financed by the European Union funds, simply so that you have the own contribution provided for in the implementation of a certain task. We have also had the same example over the last year: it concerns measures that go through the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the newly established Fund for Roads of Local Government. First there was supposed to be money to protect them from smog, then it turned out that they wouldn't go to smog, they would go to road construction. At this point, I am really wondering why we need these funds, because since, within the framework of all the funds that have been set up on purpose to carry out specific tasks, we are carrying out completely different tasks, it can eliminate these unnecessary jobs and boards and simply carry out all this money in a clear and deliberate manner by the state budget. Then, in fact, the government will have the freedom to spend these funds anyway. And you're actually managing funds from individual funds in a way you don't understand. Of course, the problem of freezing the social benefit fund at the level in force in 2014, as raised here by the Member, is completely incomprehensible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In economic times, the proposed change will reduce expenditure from the state budget on social benefits for pensioners and pensioners receiving pension benefits from the pension scheme. I would also like to know - she has already asked - what more can the government say about the amount of the freezing and what are the real reasons for this freezing. The issue concerns former soldiers and police officers, fire department, Customs, Customs and Treasury, Prison Service. Today we know that pensioners are not living well, due to the growing price basket for energy, electricity, water, gas and life costs, this is one of the groups affected by poverty. Minister, I would therefore like a few words of clarification on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u297	Thank you. I invite you to the speaker of Ms Genowefa Tokarska to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the government draft law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019, print No 2915. This draft law is so-called. Around the budget is closely linked to the draft budget law for 2019. It introduces provisions related to e.g. with a number of benefits to teachers, including the separation of funds for the professional improvement of teachers, it sets out rules for determining the expenditure on the prize fund, as well as the write-downs to the occupational welfare fund. The project proposes freezing the social benefit fund, as my predecessors have already said, at the level in force in 2014 on the basis of monthly salaries in the national economy in the second half of 2013. This is the amount of PLN 3278.14, so time has stopped. The Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund will finance post-graduate traineeships, specialization trainings and specializations of doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives, as well as salaries and insurance contributions paid to young workers preparing for the profession. In addition, the project introduces regulations for numerous funds, i.e. the Labour Fund, the Fund for Victims' Assistance and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture. It introduces regulations on expenditure related to the modernisation of uniformed equipment, on the production and use of biocomponents and liquid biofuels, as well as the financing of benefits for people with mental disorders. It also offers the possibility of receiving treasury securities from universities. All these entities have strict accounting and budgetary spending procedures. It is therefore such a wide range, I would say, of the accounting rules affecting the 2019 budget law. The greatest number of doubts - of course, my predecessors also reported them - are causing a few limitations, freezing funds to calculate benefits to employees or pensioners, including uniformed services. The government stopped on the basis of the 2013 calculations, i.e. 6 years back. I must say, how grotesque is the statement of the justification of the project. I will read literally what the government writes in this statement: The project will have - said my predecessor from Kukiz15 - a huge impact on the economic and social situation of the family, as well as people with disabilities and older people by increasing write-downs to social funds for employees, pensioners of uniform services from the level of 2012 to the level of 2013. So it's hard to divide opinions from such justification. It's just ridiculous to me, because we're planning a budget for 2019. In conclusion, I am convinced that there are still many things that can be fixed here, working in the Committee on Public Finance, but there must be the will of the government and the governing party in this regard, otherwise this cannot be done. Such justification and talking about improving the situation back to the 2013 base is simply not serious. With this hope, we are in favour of sending the project to the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u299	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to add themselves to the list of questions you are asking? You're welcome. After Mr Grabowski's entry, I will close the list. Ms Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform begins. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the Fund for Helping the Wounded and Post-Professional Assistance. This fund has very many objectives to finance, a wide range of tasks, above all helping victims, members of their families. Here is a very wide range of tasks: education in the field of anti-violence and crime, but above all, post-penitentiary assistance to people deprived of freedom, fired from workplaces, arrests of investigators and their families. There is a great deal of these tasks. However, the draft around budget law states that almost 40% of this fund appropriations, 40% revenue, namely 94 968 thousand. zł, will be dedicated to the programme of upgrading the Prison Service. I think it's too gross a reduction in funds from this fund. The planned revenue for 2019 is PLN 228 million. Why is the Ministry so much reducing this fund? He simply will not carry out the tasks assigned to him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u301	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u302	A question for the Minister. Why should the employees of the budget lose 112 million PLN from the company's social benefit fund? Why 500,000? teachers for whom you plan very low increases will lose 180 million PLN? Why do you allocate PLN 95 million from the post-penitentiary fund to the Prison Service modernisation programme? After all, the funds can be found in completely different parts of the budget, and this money was shared by the State as they wanted. To this day, I have not received an answer to the questions on the basis of which the panel, which has gathered several Members or several Ministers and Members, has spent the money for which the fire department - for its own. Treasury securities for higher education institutions. After all, you were so loudly handing out these checks, so printed that you can see that there are 20 and 30 million zlotys here. The universities do not know at all and from the State have received no information on how to implement such bonds for universities. So I would ask for written information so that I could answer this question to university rectors. You gave them something, you showed them you were bringing something, you just didn't tell them how to use it and how to use it for universities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've been split up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u303	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's an interesting situation. I will read the title of this bill: Government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2019. Next, we read in the description of the project that the project concerns the possibility of funding from the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture to carry out tasks related to the preparation of national staff for participation in the Olympic Games and the World Championships or the European Championships. Meanwhile, we have just heard about the post-op aid fund. This law amends the Prison Service Act, collective transport, doctor's profession and a number of other laws. The whole project has 48 pages. Then why is he being misled here? If this project concerns only and only... If it also concerns issues related to allowing the national team to participate in the Olympic Games, the World Championships or the European Championships, I think it would be fair if you defined everything that this project involves, or if you define what it involves as a set of solutions. Meanwhile, we are dealing with some kind of sloppyness. I don't know if it's on the side of the Sejm Information System or on the side of the government that gave such a description to the bill, but, ladies and gentlemen, you write one and you do the other. It's like this... In fact, this is where we all work like fog, and I wouldn't want the Polish Sejm to work in fog. Members who are not in the Chamber today will read later that the project concerns something that is not really relevant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u305	This question and earlier questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tomasz Robaczyński. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start with that last question. In fact, I just checked, there is a description of this project on the sejm pages. Honestly, it's hard for me to tell you why. [[Write a letter to the marshal.]] Maybe it'll just have to be improved. As I say, it's on the sejm pages. On the Ministry's pages, in the Public Information Bulletin, there was no such information. It's just an explanation. Of course, the project is not just about financing sport or national staff. It contains many other provisions to implement the budget law. As far as the occupational welfare fund is concerned, this is it. In fact, one of the elements of defrosting certain amounts or certain benefits. Let me remind you that this is not just about this year. [[3 years.]] It's been a few years. This goes on, just as freezing of the base amount has been going on for many years. This year, for the first time in 10 years, the base amount has been unfrozen. This fund was also frozen by a year, indeed. We would like more, but there are so many budgetary possibilities in this whole budget arrangement. [[Is that good? Is that good?]] Therefore, as I am saying, this is the first step, and this is a step in the right direction, together looking at all the elements that have been included in the state budget. We also regret that it is only a year. We will be working to bring the original laws into line in the years to come. As far as 151 million are concerned for IT-related tasks under the CEPiK Fund, this appropriation will be used to finance expenditure related to the maintenance and development of state systems, inter alia. for the implementation of the project n.e.c. digital administration sandbox, implementation of cybersecurity-related tasks, financing of activities implementing 5G strategy objectives for Poland and financing of expenditure related to the operation of the national electronic identification scheme, as well as administration, reconstruction and modernisation of the integrated registry infrastructure. The funds collected in this fund allow them to be redirected to these tasks and they are at the disposal of the Minister for Digitalisation. As far as the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is concerned, of course, the primary objective, whether the Labour Fund Act or the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Act are other objectives set out in those laws. On the other hand, the funds raised in these funds are treated as public funds and as measures which can finance priority tasks, provided that not all these funds are used to enable these funds to carry out their tasks, which we believe is the right direction. I mean, these funds should actually work, not just lie in these funds, since they've been accumulated. It has been decided, as in previous years, to use some of these measures for other tasks. According to the draft budget law at the end of 2019, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund will remain no 0,5 billion, only almost 1,5 billion PLN, namely 1433 million. So it's hard to talk about training this fund here. As regards the issue of the allocation of defence funds to finance tasks related to the modernisation of police or helicopters, in fact also according to NATO-based methodology, all these tasks can be classified as defence tasks. This MON-owska qualification, which is also de facto the basis for legislation which requires 2% to be allocated GDP on defence tasks is the premise of this... [[It wouldn't have to be written on purpose.]] ...that these tasks can be counted as defensive tasks. As I say, also in this international nomenclature it is counted as such. I think that's all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u307	Thank you very much. Given that we have already finished the questions and the answer, I am closing the discussion at this point in the meeting. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on special arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2019, contained in print No 2915, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals (print No 2901). I ask the Undersecretary of State of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a proposal for a draft Print Act No 2901, i.e. a draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act. In short, it is a project that introduces a thermomodernization relief. This is linked to the acceleration of the process of improving air quality. We want to help this process through tax instruments. This is one of the priorities of government policy. An important action to improve air quality in Poland is the thermomodernization of single-family residential buildings. The project that I am presenting provides for facilitations in this respect. I must also mention that, in order to carry out this action, concerning clean air, a priority programme has been launched, under which owners and co-owners of single-family housing will be able to benefit from funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds. This is a fund dedicated to the implementation of thermomodernization projects. The proposed bill complements the available forms of thermomodernisation support granted under the Clean Air programme. It contains a tax incentive for persons who own single-family residential buildings, which will carry out the thermomodernization of these buildings from their own resources. This is a thermomodernization relief. In addition, the project proposes a exemption from income tax for subsidies granted under the "Clean Air' programme, whether from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, or from voivodship environmental and water management funds. The basic solution envisaged by this project is the relief to individuals' income tax taxpayers, both those who pay the tax on a normal, progressive basis, at a linear rate of 19% as well as those who pay a lump sum on registered revenues. The proposed solution consists of the possibility of deduction from income or revenue, depending on the type of tax, of expenditure relating to the implementation of thermomodernization projects in single-family housing. The deduction from revenue, or from revenue, will be 23% expenditure incurred for the implementation of the project. The maximum deduction limit will be 53 000. zł. The possibility of benefiting from the relief will be conditional upon the completion of the thermomodernisation project in the period of 3 years from the end of the year in which the first expenditure on the project will be incurred. At the same time, the proposal proposes to establish, on the basis of the Regulation, a list of types of building materials, equipment and services covered by the proposed relief. This will make it easier for taxpayers to benefit from this relief - they will simply know the extent of possible deductions. The second important element of the project is the exemption from subsidy tax that taxpayers can obtain from the Clean Air programme. Under the current tax-free legislation, subsidies are received from the state budget or from the budgets of local government units. The solution that we propose extends this exemption also to grants granted under the "Clean Air' programme, which will be financed by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the relevant voivodship environmental and water management funds. Such grants will be exempted. We hope that this will reduce emissions, reduce energy intensity of single-family homes and reduce atmospheric pollution. Having put it this way, I would like to ask the High House to direct this project to further parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u310	Thank you very much, Marshal, for letting me speak. I am pleased to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position regarding the draft law contained in print 2901. The Minister was gracious to present the project, without using 5 of the 15 minutes planned, indeed. Why? Not because it was limited by time or other issues, but because this law - and I say so - does not cause much controversy, and especially emotions, because without questioning the need to discuss specific solutions, I would like to say that its essence is nothing more than a complementary part of the state's efforts in the field of clean air. This issue affects the tax sphere. This is the solution that gives you the possibility of deduction. Anyone who has been here, in this House for a little while or for years, knows that this is a very important moment, also the question of some reflection, that the whole art of governance consists in the skillful maintenance of money, funds mainly from taxes, excise duties and other public danins, and then wise of these spending funds, or what we are dealing with in this case, the introduction of tax relief, truth. Whatever you call it, but you know what it is. This is addressed by a wide range of taxpayers - we have heard about it - and those who benefit from the tax rate either on a flat-rate tax or on the basis of a card... In any case, this refers to other historical solutions: renovation or rehabilitation, but this relief is a relief for today's times, because the great problem is air cleanliness, it meets these expectations. I think, as such, this law deserves the support of the High House, as I ask for on behalf of the parliamentary club. It is also worth noting at this point that this is not surprising or revealing, because in various ways different countries in the European Union are trying to reduce emissions and the impact of harmful substances and smoke. In this area we are talking about, the regulation or the annexes to the law very precisely define what type of materials, measures, devices will be covered by this, which makes the project clean and very small possibilities for abuse on the basis of this project. That's a good thing, too. And we have different examples of this in Europe. Here in the explanatory statement or in the comments we see what are the solutions, e.g. the Czechs close to us or Ireland, where dust fights, the furnaces. Let us remind you that other actions of our government have already been taken to this extent. So, going slowly to the conclusion, let me say that the solutions so far, and let us remind you that some grants in the form of loans provided by the national fund or the regional environmental funds, are not sufficient solutions. There were still certain criteria for this, which limited access. The current solution extends this scope and makes it practically complete. It can be said that an excellent majority of citizens, if not all citizens, can benefit from these measures in order to achieve the very expected target of reducing emissions and harmfulness. It is also worth saying that this function is one of the others, as I mentioned, about fiscal function, downloading funds. The current government is very often attacked when it comes to various additional benefits in different situations, even thirty-six of them are mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing's free. This is the other side of the coin. Yes, every government that thinks about the future must collect taxes from citizens in a wise and prudent way. This is more universal, universal, while addressing aid, addressing specific discounts of different types is aimed at hitting the point and achieving the desired goal, and the aim of this law is to improve air quality in Poland. It is about health, it is about huge money saved under the National Health Fund, because these measures will be effective. This may be a little difficult to imagine, but yes, any furnace that reduces the emission of harmful substances can in practice mean the protection of health and even the lives of specific nameless citizens. This imagination is worth emphasising and deserves the utmost respect. This is what modern, wise and prudent action is. This bill is just like that. Excellent. I fit in time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the club, please vote on this bill, its support and acceptance, preferably through acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u311	Mrs Zofia Czernow will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present to the High House a position on the Government bill amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, print No 2901. I am not as optimistic as the Member. I don't think you've read it exactly. [[That's too bad. That's right, twice.]] I'm afraid... The draft amendment of the law introduces tax reliefs for the thermomodernization activities carried out in single-family residential buildings. This benefit may be paid by tax-paying tax-paying individuals who pay 19% of the tax-paying income tax. tax rates as well as flat-rate payments on revenues. The relief consists of deduction from revenue, which is very important, of the expenditure incurred on thermomodernisation. The conditions for benefiting from the tax credit are as follows. Namely, first, the relief is limited only to the owners of single-family buildings. On income, 23% can be deducted expenditure incurred, except that the maximum amount of the allowance may not exceed a total of 53 000. zł, the time limit is 3 years for one project and, most importantly, the expenditure will be documented by VAT invoices issued only by taxable persons for goods and services not benefiting from exemption from this tax and the relief is not entitled to taxable persons for expenditure financed by the national environmental fund, the provincial fund or have been reimbursed in any form whatsoever, that is obvious. It should be stressed that this project introduces additional incentives for owners of single-family buildings to reduce low emissions, thus improving air quality. All activities that reduce low emissions deserve consideration, all the more so in housing construction, which is a significant source of low emissions. But this project raises serious doubts and reservations. Why? First of all, why is the project limited to single-family construction? And multi-family construction, including housing communities, including small housing communities, where people often live with low incomes, and housing is often heated with furnaces, where coal is often burned with bad quality coal, Mr. President, I'm sorry? Multi-family construction is also a source of significant emissions. It cannot be ignored in this bill. The second reservation concerns the financing of the project. Here is a very cunning financing system. The explanatory memorandum states how this government will help the owners of the buildings to fight smog. Unfortunately, it's missing the truth. This is directly due to the justification of the project. The government will actually earn PLN 960 million on this proposal. Who's gonna pay? Of course, self-government. The government will receive additional VAT revenue for this project, close to PLN 3 billion, which will cover losses in the PIT of the state budget, and the net state budget will receive a surplus of 960 million. And the losses in local government income will amount to almost PLN 2 billion and no one will cover it. The Act does not provide for any compensation for local authorities. Why? - I'm asking. It's against the constitution. I do not know whether the government knows that local governments have systematically financed the expenditure of their inhabitants from their own budgets for the fight against smog activities, including the exchange of furnaces, the cost of connection to heating networks, etc. Why does the government want to finance their ideas, not out of their pockets, but out of the pockets of local governments? Is it okay to make money on this project and to shift costs to others while misleading public opinion, speaking of great support? Despite these obvious reservations, we believe that this project should go further, because, as I said at the beginning, every elimination of emissions deserves to be considered. At the same time, we hope that these reservations that I have mentioned - and they are evidently the result of the project - will be removed during the legislative work, which I also encourage you to do. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u313	Mr Paweł Grabowski will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of Kukiz15 in relation to the draft amendment to the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax, etc., etc., print No. 2901. Ladies and gentlemen, Kukiz, 15 as a group of low taxes... As a representative of the citizens' movement, which is a low tax movement, I allow myself to draw your attention to a certain important fact. Two or three times already, my dear High Izbo, you have rejected our project to increase the tax-free amount to, for example, the level that we, the chosen nation, have here, or 30,000. PLN per year. How would this translate into air quality in Poland, my dear country? So, if a resident, a citizen, working would have an additional 400 or 500 zlotys per month in his pocket - and in fact our proposal comes down to this - he would not have to wait for any charity from a good master who would apply some tax relief to him. That's one thing. Secondly, just a moment earlier, this morning, we were talking about a different law, a change of tax laws, a 3P system - simple, transparent, friendly. Is creating new reliefs, new exceptions a good step towards simplifying the tax system? Isn't it better to just leave more money in the pocket of the citizens? They make money, spend it on whatever they want. I guarantee you that if citizens could afford to smoke good fuel in their furnaces, they wouldn't smoke any mules or fleets. If there were additional restrictions on the sale of such products, it would also have a positive impact on the quality of the air that we all breathe. If in the end not to go into some gigantoma with regard to financial expenditure, 100 billion PLN, just e.g. installation of special electromagnetic filters on chimneys, it would be possible to significantly reduce this emissions of dust and exhaust gas, on the exact same basis as the catalysts in cars. Why do you want to complicate things, why do you want to con Poles for big expenses? Mrs Czernow, who has probably left, asked why the government wants to take money from local governments. For God's sake, the government, first of all, doesn't have any money. But local governments don't have any money either. Self-governments have money from citizens' taxes, the government has money from citizens' taxes. They're citizens who get up every morning, and those who work the night shift, when they get up in the evening, go to work, pay taxes with hard work. You've got to understand this at last. The state as a country, government or government has no money. So if the government wants to take someone away, it's not local government. Citizens. He wants to take the extra money out of the citizens' pockets so he can run some kind of program. Here we come to another important issue: the effectiveness of all these programmes. I understand that you have the attitude to have as much power as possible in the citizen's life, to control what the citizen smokes, to smoke, to control whether he has taken a loan on a stove or not, and if he has taken a loan, whether he has been given a discount. Full control and full surveillance. We don't agree with that approach. I repeat: we, Kukiz,15, as a group that supports low taxes, have repeatedly presented this to your opinion. And it happened that the coalition of the Civic Platform and the PiS, and the PSL or the Modern, together you rejected the project to increase the tax-free amount, which is a project to keep more money in the pocket of citizens. [[That's not true.]] How's that not true? You didn't reject it? Then why today... The Member says that this is not true. Then explain to me how it happened that today Poles still have a tax-free amount in principle of approx. $3,000. zł, we are Members of 30,000. zł. Is that fair? [[That's half-truth.]] Half-truth, because to those who earn the least, you have increased the amount slightly, so that it has actually increased little. It is also, Mr Cymanski, the art of branding, that you are doing something rather than doing it. Ladies and gentlemen! More money in the pockets of citizens, so that citizens can afford to buy an oven and they will not have to wait for any charity. It is a proposal of the Kukiz club15. However, unless you have any other proposals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the two bad guys who are willing to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u315	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Owl to present his position on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe I won't quote the long title of this project because that's not the problem. It is important to focus on what is most important in this project. In presenting this bill, the Minister recalled the Clean Air programme and stated that this was the priority of this government. I would like it to be, Minister, the priority of this government and to finally take real action to improve air quality, because the start was not the best. I would like to remind you that the national environmental fund for years had programs of Kawka and Rys. For example, it was possible to use the "Fish' programme. finance all thermomodernisation activities. On the other hand, the government's first decisions and the new management of the National Environmental Fund in spring 2016 involved the liquidation of these programmes. It's just that these programs have been shut down. It was a mistake, it has to be said, it was a very big mistake, because it kind of stopped and stopped actions that were really important. I fully agree with the fact that the amounts allocated to these programmes were, of course, unsatisfactory at the time, perhaps the conditions had to be improved. Since the Minister has summoned the Clean Air programme, I would also like to start with him. I would like to remind you that the Clean Air programme, which is due to apply until 2029, should allocate PLN 103 billion, including 63 billion in grants, between 30 and 90%, 40 billion in loans. Unfortunately, until today, we cannot find out how this programme is to be financed, especially in this grant section. Since 19 September, a competition has been announced, a call until 2027, but about this competition You can't say anything except it was just some sort of election play. No voivodship environmental fund knows what resources it will have for grants to individual beneficiaries over the years. And so are you. We ask this in interpellations - although this is, as far as I know, another resort, but the subject matter is exactly the same - and we cannot find out what the funds of the National Environmental Fund will be from. 3 months ago, when introducing the issue tax, there was a discussion that 85% from the emission levy, from fuels that will affect the national environmental fund, will be allocated to anti-smog activities. It hasn't been more than two or three months... Today, these funds will be taken. The funds of PLN 1400 million per year will be transferred to the Local Roads Fund. You have an uncorrelated anti-smog policy at all. You can't really do that. If the programme is being prepared for PLN 100 billion, I cannot imagine this programme not being adopted by Members as a multi-annual programme. No member of the PiS has a clue about this. So do we, because at least we want to, we can't know anything about it. This is pure amateurism. And looking at what this antismog action looks like, that's the first positive word - at least real help for those who have money who want to invest. For you, to be honest, this is not a cost, because you are really encouraging demand measures that will increase spending on our households, which will contribute to the energy efficiency of our facilities, which will probably also in many cases allow for the necessary renovations, which can also be settled in the framework of energy efficiency improvements, and you will allow these 23% , i.e. the exact amount of VAT, deduct from the income and actually exempt it from the tax. I am not surprised that the Members report... I, too, must invoke this example. It is a duty for each law to finance the loss of local government units. It must be said that this is an oversight of you. There should be some correction here, e.g. However, this 2-billion-dollar loss in local self-government units should be complemented, which - and you know it well - support antismog activities in a much larger dimension. I don't want to bring up the example of Krakow, because your candidate wants to replace the boilers at a time when all of them have actually been mentioned, because there are 4,000 left. of over 30,000. These actions are simply being implemented. Large local governments spend several dozen million a year on this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The little ones add up, too. Bottom line, I'm going to say that of course we're going to be working on this project because it's going towards some real support. Unlike the Clean Air programme, it gives hope that this money can be invested in our households, our homes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u317	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska will present her position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u318	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I present my position on the draft law from print no. 2901. We already know that the project introduces a tax relief called a thermomodernization relief. The aim here is to create an incentive to thermomodernize single-family residential buildings, i.e. buildings of a specific kind. This applies to specific groups of taxpayers and owners. Thermomodernisation relief consists of deduction from tax or income 23% expenditure incurred for the implementation of this thermomodernisation project of not more than 53 000. PLN over the next 3 years. I think that a very interesting, positive solution is that the basis for deduction will be materials whose list will be harmonised, so it will be known when purchasing which materials will be able to apply this relief. In a word, it will not be required as so-called. energy audit, which also involved specific costs for investors. Expenditure which has already been financed in the form of grants from the national funds of the Fund or from the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds or paid to the taxpayer in another form will not be covered by the aid. The tax relief will apply to taxable persons who pay tax on a tax-based basis, to a rate of 19 per cent and to flat-rate payments on registered revenues. As far as that's concerned, Minister, I have a question because I don't know if I got it right. Does this project not apply to all taxpayers of personal income tax - those who are taxed on the second degree of the tax scale, paying higher taxes, this law already does not apply? And yet we recognize the purpose of the bill, he is indeed very honored. In general, protecting the environment, maintaining clean air is really such an important, essential need for life today, really at the time. I would therefore like to ask whether it is even possible to extend this to those taxpayers who are in the latter group, who have fallen into the second threshold of the tax scale, i.e. those paying a higher tax than only 19%. Of course, this needs to be improved by balancing resources and this loss for local governments. Such a right should not be provided for, without compensation for local authorities, to introduce solutions, even the best, without this compensation. My club is in favour of directing this project to committee work, but I think all these doubts would have to be clarified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u319	Thank you, Member. We're going to ask questions. We begin with Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes. I'm closing the list of people who came forward for the question. Please join the list, sir, and we are done here. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Within the framework of the new tax credit, which is due to apply from next year, it will be possible to deduct from income for 3 years to 53 000. zł, i.e. 23% expenditure incurred. This is a very good step towards relieving private individuals of the part of the costs they have incurred to combat smog. I'm just wondering why the housing community was shut down. It would have to be considered during the procession. The thermomodernization relief resembles the old renovation relief, only covers the thermomodernization of single-family buildings, including the replacement of solid fuel boilers. I would like to ask you to clarify whether the relief will also apply to the installation of heat pumps and the entire installation related to this and whether photovoltaics can also be relieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u321	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u322	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have two very, very simple questions. First: Will the person who pays 30% tax be able to buy a new furnace that is more efficient, provides less emissions, burns less gas, is it more cost-effective? It seems that if we consider the economic side, environmental protection and the issue of exhaust emissions, it makes sense. Two: When will the government present a comprehensive project to combat exhaust emissions, so that we can talk about a comprehensive solution, not that you say once that you are spending money for another purpose, and then you show that there is no money? How are we supposed to believe that such a program exists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u323	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u324	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that 100 billion will be spent on thermomodernization. Or will the government raise taxes for our fellow countrymen just because of this relief or knowing life? More than once, life has shown that taxes are most often raised on any such bill, which is what I hear here today. In other words, it reaches into your pockets because we're talking about pockets today, taxpayers, and they're only having holes in their pockets from looking for change. Is it just a painting coloring, or is it basically gonna be a tax raise? As my colleague Paweł Grabowski said, if there is more money in taxpayers' pockets, they will do the thermomodernization themselves. As my colleague said here earlier, Kukiz15 is a low-tax club. I'm holding on to what I said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u325	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u326	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions about deductions. Of course, the programme itself is interesting to say that this is probably one of the first, unless it is the first real tools that the State has proposed, and yet we have known about the problems of air and air quality for at least 3 years. Welcome to this, however, I have questions about, first of all, how these reliefs will be carried out jointly by clearing taxpayers or on the same principles as the 19-percent tax. Is this covered by the definition contained in the draft law, or are taxpayers who jointly account for and achieve a lower tax rate for this reason, also able to deduct it? I also wanted to ask if this scheme could be used by residents of housing cooperatives who carry out such projects themselves, i.e. replacement of windows to meet, I would say, higher thermal requirements, and why you are removing again from this program [[♪ The bell ♪]] some taxpayers, those who pay a higher tax of more than 19%, are therefore quite narrowing this group, as is the case with the second project, which provides for total subsidies for such modernisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u327	Thank you. And Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15, will ask the last question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u328	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Quick question: How do you feel about the VAT rate being 0% on boilers, ovens or all these devices that are related to thermomodernization? Then the price of many of them could very much fall. Perhaps citizens would not have to borrow $50,000. zł to pay 100, just 40. Perhaps it would be easier for them to gain this money from their own savings. This would be a solution that would be most desirable and appropriate. Therefore, the question is: What if VAT were to be reduced to 0% ? This would not make the system more difficult or complicated, because the citizen would not have to count anything down here. He just wouldn't pay that tax. You wouldn't be making any money on this occasion either, but on the other hand, you're taking it away. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u329	Thank you. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to answer this question and to answer previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. However, I would like to start by explaining in such a general way, because here a few people asked what the mechanism of this relief is. I said in my speech that the relief applies to PIT taxpayers who pay tax on a progressive scale. If someone pays on a progressive scale, that means they might pay 32%, right? And now those taxpayers who are in this highest tax group, this interesting country, will be eligible for this relief, will be able to deduct the amount of expenses from their income. The amount of expenditure to be deducted is over 230 thousand, because 53 thousand. It's just a deduction, right? So in order to take advantage of the relief to make this deduction of 53,000, the maximum expenditure must be at 230 thousand. At that time 23% of this amount will be 53 thousand. This is a relief that we have foreseen for all: for those who pay at a linear rate, and for those who pay at progressive rates. She's, like, democratic. [[Exactly.]] The next question that came out of the room here was why we are directing this relief only to single - family homes. Because it's the most urgent need, because every single-family house, let's assume, has a chimney and smoke from this chimney contaminates the air, right? If we have a community, it's more like one chimney, right? He probably pollutes a little bit more, emits a little bit more. In general, the problem that we have identified, that is, the government has identified, and we have introduced complementary solutions in this area, which you spoke about, is that we need to help people who own homes, in order to modernise their heating systems so that they can warm up the house so that they can have more... [[What about the oven?]] Yeah, yeah, the stove can also exchange, as much as possible. This is provided for in the Regulation, which is an annex to this project. So the second leg of this project is that we provide for exemption for subsidies from environmental funds, because we want people who do not necessarily have the resources to replace this furnace. The idea is that this relief should be universal, including those layers of society that are unable to finance it from their own resources. You have spoken here several times about the fact that this relief hits local governments. That's actually true. She's lowering the government's income. However, we have foreseen, as part of the package of laws that we are introducing, a significant injection in terms of the revenue of local governments, because we are planning in these laws that we are introducing, important seals that will provide more tax money. I told you earlier this morning. You also claimed that we are introducing projects that are detrimental to local governments. It's just that it's a package. We have here a proposal for changes to the laws on PIT and CIT, which ensure sealing and on these changes the local authorities will benefit very much, much more than the reliefs we expect here. As far as Mrs Skowronska is concerned about the furnace, she is. 32 percent... [[But thirty...?]] Yeah, because someone who pays, on a scale, will be subject to it, will be able to benefit from this relief. Another question concerned the deduction by the spouses. This is a relief that a taxpayer has, that is, if we have spouses who account together... [[Together.]] ...then each of them has its own spending limit, which means they can really carry out such a thermomodernization that there will be zero emissions. Yes. [[We say furnace, boiler room.]] It's a lot. Now. [[This is the size of a small house.]] [[Voice from the hall: But people don't have such a...]] As regards the question about the VAT rate for boilers, this is a question about tax policy in general. I would just like to point out that it is not quite so that the reduction in indirect taxes is always in the pocket of citizens. The thing is, when we give income tax relief, we know that this income tax relief went to someone, which means that someone who acted in accordance with government policy, in this case in the area of the Clean Air program, will get relief, will get it. And if we put a zero rate on a product, then it's going to be a market power game, and some of the resources for this zero rate can go as a profit in the seller's pocket, because it's always like that when there's a price adjustment space, there's also space to increase profits. So I think the relief we're offering is a good, positive move. It is also beneficial - I think it is also worth mentioning such a broader aspect - from the point of view of local governments, because it will induce consumer activities, i.e. there will be more income taxes paid by small craftsmen who will deal with renovation, install these furnaces, will carry out this thermomodernization. There will be more money because taxpayers will pay, and the municipalities where these activities will be undertaken will benefit from it too. So it's not so zero-one that someone loses here, someone gains. As I say, in the general package of tax laws that we are introducing, the municipalities will gain. Thank you very much. I hope I answered all the questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u331	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, contained in print No 2901, to the Committee on Public Finance, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Infrastructure, for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws (print No 2905). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Cybulski to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u332	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The primary objective of the amendments introduced in the draft law on the amendment of the National Tax Administration Act and some other laws, Sejm No. 2905, is to combat the grey zone and tax fraud due to the smoother operation of the National Tax Administration. This effect is to be achieved by improving the organisation of the National Tax Administration, providing greater access to the information necessary for carrying out its statutory tasks, and by providing tools for more effective execution of customs-treasure checks. In order to ensure the smooth and efficient performance of the tasks of the National Tax Administration in accordance with the proposed solutions, the Minister of Finance, which is the body of the National Tax Administration, will be equipped with instruments to strengthen the coordination of tasks carried out by the National Tax Administration, including the Customs and Treasury Service. This will also enable the Finance Minister to strengthen the minister's management role in the process of analysing and implementing solutions to improve the state's treasury, which will contribute to the smooth collection of state revenue by this apparatus. Thus, the proposed amendments to the law are intended to improve revenue collection. They also respond to the experience gained so far from the application of the provisions of the National Tax Administration Act. It should be stressed that the new instruments respond to the changing environment of the tax services and to the new opportunities offered by the technology and the operation of the tax services on the data at their disposal. This is also intended to contribute to reducing the administrative burden on taxpayers. In order to improve the flow of information in state bodies, the head of the National Tax Administration will be among others. required to provide the Finance Minister annually with a report on the activities of the National Tax Administration, which will include in particular information on the implementation of revenue from customs duties and other charges relating to the import and export of goods, the implementation of human resources and training policies in the organisational units of the National Tax Administration and the implementation of the State budget for the functioning of the National Tax Administration. With regard to access to the information necessary for carrying out the statutory tasks of the National Tax Administration, the project provides for the following changes. Firstly, the project provides for an extension of the scope of the data collected, inter alia. information on events affecting the origin or amount of non-tax fiscal claims. Secondly, the proposal provides for the possibility for national tax authorities to perform analytical activities to financial institutions with a request for information on the account holder used to operate in the shadow economy. The entitlement granted is a means to determine the data of a person who hides his data for the purpose of carrying out unnotified business taxation, obtaining non-coverable revenues in disclosed sources or from undisclosed sources, obtaining unconfirmed revenues or undisclosed revenues in submitted declarations. The mechanism is designed to equip the authorities of the National Tax Administration with the appropriate tools to seal the system and limit the grey zone. The purpose of the draft law is also to clarify and supplement the provisions concerning the arrangements for carrying out customs-credit checks, including controls concerning the possession and production of and trading of gambling machines. The bill provides for changes in the adjustment of the tax return by informing the head of the customs and treasury office carrying out the customs and treasury control of the tax return submitted by the audited correction. The head shall decide to take account of the correction of the declaration by notifying the head of the tax office. Secondly, the scope of the customs-subsistence control carried out under the permanent authorisation for control has been extended, inter alia. identification and use of excise marks and possession of gambling machines. The regulations introduced will have a positive impact on the efficiency of the national tax authorities so that they can respond to identified undesirable phenomena on an ongoing basis, and will contribute to effective supervision in the above mentioned. range. It is also envisaged to introduce regulation enabling checks to be carried out on the basis of a permanent authorisation for the production and distribution of slot machines. The proposed solution is one of the elements of a security system that allows efficient and effective elimination of the possibility of illegal slot games. Acting on the basis of a permanent authorisation shall enable action to be taken as soon as it is informed of the intention to introduce or exit slots. The creation of the regulation allows the authorities of the National Tax Administration to detect fuel from undisclosed sources from which no excise duty has been collected or no excise duty has been collected at the amount due, without the need for individual authorisation to carry out customs-credit checks each time. The practice of national tax authorities shows that fuel from undisclosed sources which do not meet the quality requirements is distributed to local petrol stations or directly to operators using such fuels. Allowing checks to be carried out on the basis of a permanent mandate for fuel quality parameters will contribute to the efficiency of carrying out customs-treasure controls in the above mentioned. areas by re-bureaucratising individual authorisation activities and increasing the response rate to undesirable phenomena. It goes on for example. the possibility of carrying out a number of inspections on a single day in the case of a number of operators. A simplified procedure for initiating checks has also been introduced and the rules for documenting the results of these checks have been amended, allowing for the rapid start-up of checks against suspicion of irregularities, in particular on the excise goods market. This will also eliminate the difficulties associated with the timely delivery of the control authority in the case of controls of petrol stations, shops, most often at the place of inspection where persons can be effectively served with the control authority. Where the seat of the entity is outside the territorial jurisdiction of the tax office chief, there may be problems with timely service of the authorisation and the cost of business travel will be generated. The draft provides for the possibility of carrying out a tax-credit control in companies forming part of a tax group which has lost the status of a taxpayer and in relation to former partners of a civil partnership, a public partnership, a limited partnership or a limited partnership in the event of the dissolution of those companies during the course of the check. The proposed provisions clarify the rules for the initiation of customs-treasure checks. The draft provides that, in the absence of a controlled representative or representative, customs and treasury control may be initiated upon presentation of a service card to the person checked or in the presence of the witness referred to, which should be a public officer who is not an employee of the Administrative Board or an officer of the Customs and Treasury Service. At the same time, a regulation has been introduced whereby, in the event of the initiation of checks on the basis of a card, the authorisation to carry out a customs-treasure check should be delivered to the audited person without undue delay. The proposed provisions aim to eliminate cases of avoidance of service of authorisation to carry out a customs-subsistence check. The project submitted in print No 2905 aims to improve the activities of the National Tax Administration, but also to reduce the burden resulting from controls on taxpayers. I ask the High House to accept the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u333	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I would ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber, the Law and Justice Club, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. High Izbo! The National Tax Administration was established on 16 November 2016 by two laws. I had the privilege of being an applicant of one of them, the National Tax Administration Act. When we worked in this House on the National Tax Administration Act, the aim that he had for us was to make the tax administration more efficient. It was one of the attempts to hit the VAT mafia, it was an attempt to seal taxes, but also the aim was to make controls less severe so that their numbers were smaller and to make the tax administration more friendly. I would like to note with satisfaction the fact that the number of tax checks is smaller, significantly decreased and thus the number of checks which showed various irregularities has increased significantly. This combined with the success of the government in sealing the VAT gap as well as the gaps in other taxes is undoubtedly a success and at least part of this success is consumed by this law. The amendment presented by the government extends possibilities, gives new instruments of the National Tax Administration. These ambitious objectives, which have been set, are being pursued and today the fundamental objective of amending the law we are discussing, is to continue to combat the shadow economy and tax fraud. This effect is to be achieved by improving the organisation of the National Tax Administration and providing it with tools to carry out customs and treasury controls more effectively. I am pleased that the designed changes are not aimed at honest taxpayers, at honest entrepreneurs, but, on the contrary, to give them and increase their chances of development. The Minister has actually discussed the bill in very detail, and I will mention just a few things. However, this project assumes the introduction of a solution that will allow the KAS to perform analytical activities in banks and other financial institutions with a request for details of the bank account holder used to operate in the shadow economy. This is a change that can help to improve the fight against this gap. Seems like a good, legitimate idea. The subject of the amendment is also to clarify and supplement the provisions on customs and treasury controls, including controls on ownership and the production and marketing of gambling machines. This is a kind of change that comes from the first months of these new rules, but this is also about improving what can work even better. Finally, it is envisaged to extend the scope of this tax and tax control, which will be carried out on the basis of a permanent authorisation. Such control will be carried out in the field of inter alia. the identification and use of excise marks, marking and colouring of energy products. High Izbo! Designed changes will enable checks to be carried out on the basis of a permanent authorisation for the production and marketing of slot machines. This is an element of a security system that allows you to eliminate in an efficient and effective way the possibility of illegal gaming on slots. Once again, I would really like to emphasise and point out that the aim of the proposed change, the amendment is to combat the shadow economy and tax fraud through a more efficient operation of the National Tax Administration, to ensure greater access to information [[♪ The bell ♪]] necessary for carrying out its statutory tasks and for carrying out more effective customs-treasure checks. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of directing the bill to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u335	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws provides for the instrumental management of the tax administration by the Minister of Finance, although the Minister of Finance is not from this. After all, the Minister of Finance is from tax and fiscal policy-making. If this bill comes into force, then the National Tax Administration will become an institution which will be manually controlled as the prosecution of Zbigniew Ziobra. First of all, it will lose the independence of the body because the head of the KAS has the competence to supervise the course of the audit. The Act introduces coordination, supervision of the Minister of Finance over the organisational units of the National Tax Administration, which is a confusion of the powers of the Minister of Finance and the Head of the KAS. We can imagine that the division of powers in the management will be such that the Deputy Minister, other than the head of the KAS, will be responsible for the tasks of the KAS. And it's obviously a straight path to conflict. Nor does the Act specify what materials the Minister of Finance may demand. Can he demand e.g. materials relating to individual tax and control proceedings? If the act is intended to strengthen the supervision of MF of the head of the KAS, then supervision involves the possibility of issuing binding guidelines and instructions, and in the case of operational and research activities it can be dangerous at all. It's not like the servants will really know who their superior is. This gives, of course, the possibility of manual control of control procedures, because the head of the KAS acquires competence to supervise, I will repeat this, the course of control. The project also restricts the rights of the taxpayer, restricts the application of the so-called. Re-adjustments. Today, the taxable person with whom the check has taken place can agree with the outcome by making a follow-up adjustment by paying a fixed amount and thus avoiding sanctions. If it does not agree with the findings of the audit, which can happen, because the checks are sometimes mistaken, it may re-apply, in line with the original condition, to the tax authority with a refund request. And if he wins in court, he'll get a refund with interest. Following the amendment of the Act, it will not be possible to withdraw the effects of customs-treasure checks. So he'll have to choose either to correct the declaration and pay the difference, even if he doesn't agree, and close his own investigation, or he'll be able to enter into a dispute with the fiscus and expose himself to criminal interest, very serious, given that proceedings are often long-term. Of course, this is convenient for the tax administration, but it seems that the advantage of the state over the taxpayer here is not so necessary. This, of course, is not the only limitation of the taxpayer's rights, because you're still introducing... Mr Schreiber was delighted with this, as I understand it, as part of this kindness and friendly control. If the head of the KAS has solid information about the possibility of using the bank account - no one knows what it means: it will depend on what the head of the KAS thinks - then he can obtain all information about the taxpayer completely without the supervision of the prosecution or the court. Well, if that's what this friendly fiscus is supposed to look like, then congratulations, sir. I think that's what the investment collapse comes from, and the fact that entrepreneurs are so afraid of you that they prefer to keep the money in their account, have overliquidity, and just not invest it. Let me remind you that the Civic Platform voted in favour of all projects sealing the system. I will also remind Minister Cybulski that a single control file, because you did not know it, introduced the Civic Platform, Minister, in the previous term. We have always voted in favour of all the laws that seal the tax system, even if they are burdensome to the taxpayer, because in fact they all have to be burdensome to some extent to the taxpayer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This law, on the other hand, is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u337	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that the state, by trying to expand its competence, or by talking about the need to improve its operation, the National Tax Administration... She has certainly done a lot of good when it comes to closing this VAT gap or fighting the VAT mafia, but, ladies and gentlemen, by extending the competences of the KAS so strongly, you will not maintain this dynamic increase in tax revenue to the state budget. The fact that for years there has been tax crap in Poland, and for others - an eldorado, that is a fact. This case is being dealt with by the VAT investigation committee today. The fact that someone had come around and said that we had to create a National Tax Administration, that we had to finally get on with all those who, in fact, stole from citizens, made a way of living, that's good too. However, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to acknowledge that the money that was being wasted, the money that was stolen, was a pot. At a time when, as a country, we started to fight all these VAT mafias, tax mafias, etc., of course, these budgetary revenues, the dynamics of the growth of these influences were very high, and in a situation where this has been significantly reduced, it must be borne in mind that this growth dynamic will be decreasing, perhaps even negative. All the time, ladies and gentlemen, the level of taxes that are being levied, or this percentage is not going to get any higher. The amount of taxes affecting the state budget depends, among other things, on how much economic freedom there is, the freedom of taxpayers to conduct their business, the freedom of entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, we can't boast very much here. On the one hand, we are talking about this - again this term 3P: simplicity, transparency, the friendship of the tax system - on the other hand, today an entrepreneur who wants to operate and operate freely on the market often has big problems due to complex regulations. Ladies and gentlemen! I know we're talking about the National Tax Administration Act today, but we can't look at it. So narrowly, clipping: that's all we do, and all the other mistakes we don't want to notice. We should be looking at the system. In this case, therefore, as regards the extension of the scope of the competences which are conferred, as well as the kind of separation of the KAS as already such a special service, which is to fight in fact to ensure that taxes are collected fairly, I think it is worth taking a debate on this issue, a fair debate, in committees. I think that this law can also change strongly, if the state, I am thinking, above all, of the governing party, you will take into account the voice of entrepreneurs, if you also take into account the voice of non-governmental organisations that monitor how much influence or how much interference is involved, or how much control of the state over the citizen or entities that conduct business. I encourage this dialogue from this simple point of view - Mr Schreiber said about it - that the aim of all these actions, legislative procedures, is to improve the climate, the mood. He didn't use those words, but he probably meant that those entrepreneurs who work fairly, earn money, pay taxes, get better. Well, Mr President, unfortunately, the facts are: when I meet with entrepreneurs just somewhere on the street, with friends, with strangers who know that I am an honourable Member's mandate, it is the entrepreneurs who complain about the growing uncertainty about their functioning on the market, the increasing uncertainty about relations with state authorities, including tax authorities. Unfortunately, there is a situation in which entrepreneurs are starting to become more and more worried about the very serious consequences of even the smallest crimes. For this reason, I believe that on the one hand, yes, if the extension of the scope of competence is justified, it is worth considering, but above all, the state, the government, the government, the minister, you should also make an effort to conduct a dialogue with entrepreneurs, so that they do not know that you are avoiding them, without their vote, proceeding on the next rules that may be for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not entirely understandable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u339	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I am presenting a position on the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. At the beginning of the justification or assessment of the effects of the regulation, you write that the solution to the problems to be solved by this law, i.e. Combating the shadow economy and tax fraud requires solutions to improve the performance of tasks by the National Tax Administration. But what is really involved in improving the performance of these tasks? Extra powers of power. This is not a clarification of the rules at all, but the introduction of new essential elements limiting citizens' freedoms and personal rights, but also restricting economic activity. It's supposed to be a PiS prescription for a tax-friendly tax office. It is difficult here to discuss all those institutions which the State introduces by law that we are discussing. We are dealing with, among others. with an extension of the natural persons of the circle of entities of which the bank is required to provide information at the written request of the head of the KAS and the head of the customs and treasury office issued in connection with the initiation of the preparatory proceedings in the case of criminal offences and of tax offences, and with the granting of that right also to the head of the tax office. So here is the extended scope of both the impact and the subject matter: another authority is given the opportunity to look into the taxpayer's case. In addition, and you also consider this to be an improvement, we are to allow for an analytical request from financial institutions to provide the bank account holder's data used to operate in the grey area. Ladies and gentlemen, this is putting officials in the hands of a very dangerous tool that will not be controlled. Now practically every official under the guise of analytical activities can apply for sensitive data on bank accounts, and thus banking secrecy will prove to be fiction. There have already been issues related to the revision of the declaration, i.e. the impossibility of correcting the declaration beyond the period not controlled. Of course, this is convenient for the tax system, while it exposes the entrepreneur to really very serious consequences, because, as it has been said here, it will either admit and pay when it wants to have a holy peace and does not want to enter into a dispute with the tax authority, and if it does not pay and enter into a dispute, it will be exposed to significant interest and very long tax proceedings. In addition, you introduce the possibility of carrying out checks in the absence of the trader, the person entitled to represent, only on the card. In addition, you point out that this is to be done in a situation of suspicion of non-compliance by controlled rules, which is practically a very broad, large definition. In fact, any controlling person in this situation may initiate control at any time, at any time, on an official basis, and there will be no possibility of any evaluation. I know that in the Tax Order it is also the initiation of a review procedure on the so-called. legitimacy, but there we are dealing only with a situation where we are suspected of committing a tax offence, and here you are putting it as a suspicion of non-compliance. The state in relation to taxpayers and traders in principle assumes that they do not comply with the rules and that you introduce such rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's nothing more than the PiS Plus Special Service Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u341	Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u342	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. High Seym! We are now dealing with a project which is to amend the provisions of the Act, which is less than 2 years old, from November 2016, and to change it to a rather fundamental extent. What does the government propose? Here are a few areas, not all, of changes that have gracefully been called the improvement of the law. There is a change in the definition of a controlled counterparty. It is proposed to extend the definition of a controlled counterparty to carriers and to a whole range of economic operators during the period covered by the customs and treasury control which participated in the transhipment, transfer, packing of the goods, etc., attention, both on the supplier's and the buyer's side, taking part indirectly or directly in the supply of the goods. One can say: uf, can you imagine how this extension of the definition will make the scope of the entities required to provide the documentation widen, and that is very much so? What does the businessman say? Probably no one asked them that question, but we believe that it will also lose the national administration, as this will result in an extension of the controls. Further proposed amendments: extending the control without the taxpayer's participation. Well, the possibility is envisaged, and it can already be said today, that it will be a rule, because that is probably the way it will be, to start a customs-treasure check after showing a work card to an employee, not a controlled one, but an employee, or in the presence of the witness cited. It's easy to imagine how it's gonna be done. And again, the question is, what did the entrepreneurs actually say? High Seym! The catalogue has been expanded in a rather fundamental way, subjectively and subjectively. As regards the information received by the KAS, the obligation to provide bank information will be introduced. According to the proposal, the powers of the head of the tax office will be conferred in connection with the tax control initiated and the head of the National Tax Administration - during the course of the tax procedure. Another amendment proposed in the new law is the extension of the powers of the customs and treasury authorities to initiate customs and treasury checks on the capital groups that have ceased their activities. The justification for this solution is the possibility of breaching the conditions for the creation of a tax group before the end of the tax year. Finally, a very important proposal for a change, provisions which significantly restrict the possibility of amending the tax return, as has already been mentioned several times here. Namely, if the taxable person agrees with the outcome of the audit and corrects the declaration, he will lose the possibility of making another effective correction to the extent that such correction provides for the withdrawal of the findings of the check. High Seym! Entrepreneurs call it simple: It is simply blackmail because the taxpayer will have to choose - either agree with the results of the audit and humbly pay the tax, or disagrees, goes to court and exposes itself to the entire procedure, additional costs, sanctions, interest, etc. Question: "Who will take the risk, and what will the entrepreneurs say?" Finally, I will mention only such a detail that there will also be a change in the calculation of control and judicial allowances. This is, according to me, such a proverbial sausage, but already behind the rack - the controller will have to tell the boss about his private life, about going abroad. It's some kind of curiosity record. High Seym! As we analyze the provisions of this new law, I can think of a slightly infantile comparison to the patient whose surgery was successful, but the patient unfortunately did not survive. I'm sure you'll accept this bill by a majority. But how will Polish entrepreneurs behave? This can be answered in this way: In 2017, more than 150 construction companies declared bankruptcy, the number of companies that declare insolvency increases. This is how the market will respond, this is how Polish companies will respond to this improvement of the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the National Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u343	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u344	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When a bandit robs someone, we often call it theft of boldness. When the government robs taxpayers with the help of parliament laws, we call it stealing with a resolution. Why am I talking so hard about these kinds of solutions? In fact, another law of surveillance is being created. The powers of the tax services will be so great that there is no balance between the taxpayer and the tax services and it must be forgotten that, in particular, the small or medium-sized taxpayer or the small and medium-sized trader will have any greater opportunity to properly destroy it by the tax authorities. Let us remember in this context that the power of taxation is the power of destruction. Unfortunately, this process is expanding in Poland. Yesterday, Rzeczpospolita reported a record number of corporate bankruptcies. There is no case in this, because tax pressure is increasing, tax uncertainty is growing and really destroying the taxpayer is a very, very simple thing. And that's really where the cloud of the matter lies. Entrepreneurs, taxpayers not so much complain about the amount of taxes as about the instability and instability of tax law. This is a particular problem when it comes to ridiculous income taxes, because when it comes to these taxes, about 80% of the cost of the tax system, 80% of the cost of the tax system. the cost of operating the tax system is precisely intended to account for or control income taxes. It shows how deeply inefficient this system is. Secondly, Poland has one of the world's most expensive tax cameras. If you count the costs of operating a widely understood tax system in relation to revenue, we beat almost all records. Only single countries in the world have a worse situation than us. This shows that the change should not go in this direction, so that the screw tightens more and more, which is, what is called nicely, sealing the tax system, only in order to radically simplify this tax system. Now let's play some fantasy for a second. Let us imagine that we are eliminating income taxes that are so pointless and so low in income to the state that their functioning is actually absurd and unnecessary. What happens then? It will happen that people much more, much more, with much more money, will buy goods and services, which will, of course, break into much higher VAT. Now let's imagine that we're simplifying VAT radically, leaving only one rate. About 78% will disappear. , maybe 70% Maybe 80% of the VAT carousels. And in this direction we should go because further sealing and further increasing surveillance will result in the opposite effect to the intended one. The reason for tax gaps is too complex a tax system, not that entrepreneurs want to cheat. Besides, I think the U.S.S.S. should be destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u345	Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? You're welcome, sir. I'm closing the list. I ask you to ask Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act provides, as you state in the impact assessment, for the flexibility of the management of the Customs-Scarb Service, including the determination of the controller's allowance and the judicial allowance, as well as the obligation on officers to inform about travel abroad. I did not find in this impact assessment information on the comments made by trade unions on this project. I would therefore like to ask: Has the law been consulted with the trade unions, particularly with regard to the new way of determining judicial and supervisory allowances? And the other thing. The trade unions have prepared a proposal for a modernisation bill for the National Tax Administration for the years 2019 to 2024. This project is supposed to be a civil project. I know the trade unions are already collecting signatures for this project. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What is the position on this matter? Is the government preparing some own bill of modernization, e.g. modernisation [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're in uniform duty? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u347	Thank you. Please ask Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u348	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: How much do you think Poles should pay taxes and how much do they pay today? It was mentioned about the VAT gap that these tax receipts were much lower than they should be real. And my question: How much longer do you think there is today? In view of the gross domestic product value, given the value of goods produced by traders, the value of trade, etc., how much do you really think these taxes should be paid in total for PIT, CIT, VAT and how much is already paid today? I mean, how much more there is, so to speak, to complement, how much more to do. Because we may have reached the point where, in this proverbial glass of salt water, this salt water is so salty that further desalination will not increase the revenue to the budgets of the state, [[♪ The bell ♪]] may make life difficult for entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u349	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Paweł Cybulski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to emphasise once again here that the bill is directed against those who deliberately avoid paying taxes or deliberately extortion public tributes. This is the first thing I would like to stress, so that I call on us not to scare entrepreneurs with rules that are directed against dishonest tax-deductors or tax-depreciators. That's the first thing. We cannot confuse here two concepts: the concept of a taxpayer, a citizen and the concept of an entity, a person who intentionally extorts a tax that destroys our financial system, which belongs to citizens, to honest entrepreneurs, to all of us. That's the first thing. Here we cannot treat honest and dishonest people equally. If we're talking about any form of surveillance... I don't agree that this is surveillance. This is an attempt to acquire the knowledge necessary to defend the financial interests of Poland. You have to be clear about that. Nor will the doctor treat the patient if he does not have full knowledge of him. There will be no way to cure anything if we do not have knowledge, if we do not rely on this knowledge, and as a result, if we do not take appropriate action. As regards the question of whether the draft law was consulted with trade unions, yes, it was consulted with a representative trade union group, so the consultation with trade unions took place as much as possible. The question was whether the modernisation bill was envisaged. We're considering it. Of course, we're going in that direction. Perhaps such a bill or such a resolution of modernization will appear. It is difficult to say at this stage yet, it is difficult at this moment to say authoritatively whether such a resolution or a bill will be or will not be. We are considering this possibility as much as possible. As regards the amount of allowances, this amount will not change, and it will certainly not be lower than before, so we do not want to limit the employee's right to pay in any way to the bonus. We absolutely do not anticipate such situations. When it comes to the question of how much more money we want, how much money we want, how much we see, how much more we need to get, I can't say it. I'm an intern when it comes to the National Tax Administration, and I still see irregularities. I can see how much more bad is going on. As a practice, as a pragmatist, I see how much more bad is going on, how many tax fraud groups there are. I see how many dishonest actors - because it's hard to say that these are taxpayers or entrepreneurs - how many more are dishonest people who are trying to disrupt this rhythm, order in public finances. I see how much more to do. As far as the VAT gap is concerned, at the moment, as you probably know, it is 14%. It's been calculated for the last year. It's about 14%. GDP, so there is a significant improvement, although there is certainly still much to be done towards sealing. But like I said, it's about sealing against criminals, against frauds, against those who deliberately refuse to pay tax in this country. I think that's actually what I had the most important thing to say to you in answer to your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u351	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and certain other laws, contained in print No 2905, to the Committee on Public Finance, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Special Services for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on medicinal activities and some other laws (print No 2903). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józefa Szczurek-Żelazko, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u352	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to introduce a draft amendment to the physio therapist's profession. The Law of 25 September 2015, which entered into force on 31 May 2016, introduced regulations laying down rules for the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist as an independent medical profession. Together with the entry into force of the Law, physiotherapists became a professional group subject to strict rules for the pursuit of this profession, which are similar to those of the profession of doctor, dentist, nurse or midwife. However, in part the powers and obligations relating to forms of pursuit of the profession of physiotherapists included those provisions which were less favourable than those mentioned above. professional groups, e.g. physiotherapists were able to pursue their profession and practice in the form of a medicinal entity, causing a number of problems and difficulties, and increasing the cost of registration of these entities. In view of the above, the Minister of Health has taken action to address issues that were not fully regulated by the Act of 25 September 2015, inter alia. through the introduction of various forms of physiotherapist profession. This draft law proposes to allow the pursuit of a physiotherapist's profession in the form of a professional practice with legal status similar to that in other medical professions. This is specified in Article. 5 Act on Medical Activity. We foresee the possibility of pursuing a physiotherapist's profession in the form of a business activity as an individual physiotherapist's practice, so-called. practice of the office, as well as proposing in this revision one-person business activity as an individual practice of the physiotherapist only at the site of the call. It provides for the possibility to pursue a physiotherapist's profession in the form of a single-person business activity as an individual practice only in a medical establishment on the basis of a contract concluded between a physiotherapist and that medical establishment, as well as the possibility to pursue a physiotherapist's profession in the form of a civil partnership, a public company or a partnership as a group practice of physiotherapists. So these solutions are exactly the same as those proposed in relation to other independent medical professions, such as I mentioned at the outset. With regard to changes in the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist, this amendment establishes a registering body to be the National Council of Physiotherapists. It is the National Council of Physiotherapists that will keep a register of individual or group physiotherapist practices. The President of the National Council of Physiotherapists will be authorised to do so. In addition, there is a provision in the current law that requires physiotherapists to register medicinal products by the end of November of this year, which is until 30 November. As there is a large inequality in the form of activity or the pursuit of a physiotherapist's profession in relation to other medical professions, we propose in the amendment of this law that this deadline be postponed, i.e. that this registration obligation will have to be carried out within 1 April 2019. So for physiotherapists who have not yet had a registered business, and such in our opinion is about 30%, because such a number carries out an economic activity, this registration obligation will be required by 1 April 2019. In addition, the possibility for physiotherapists to register with the National Council of physiotherapists of individual or group practices set out in this amendment by physiotherapists who have so far performed a profession with registered economic activities has also been postponed by one year. These solutions meet the expectations of the physiotherapists' environment, they bear less costs, as registration of an economic activity of a medicinal entity is linked to the compliance with quite strict requirements laid down in the legislation on medicinal activities, and is also linked to a fee which is incomparably higher than the registration of an individual practice of the office or at the place of call or in the therapeutic entity. So these are rules that are more favourable to physiotherapists than those in force on the basis of the previous law. In addition, we will clarify in this amendment the issue of places of pursuit of the physiotherapist's profession. Physiotherapeutic treatments are performed not only in medicinal subjects, as so far it has been defined in the law, but also in many other places - educational, sports and recreational institutions. As this catalogue has so far been very narrow, there has been a danger that a physiotherapist after a five-year period of work in those facilities which have not been identified as medical agents will lose his right to pursue his profession. Therefore, we are expanding the catalogue of entities in which physiotherapeutic practice can be carried out, and this will mean that it will constitute the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist. This is a project that is expected by the physiotherapists' environment. It evens the odds, equals the practice of physiotherapist, self-employed physiotherapist, with the rules of other medical professions such as the profession of doctor, dentist, nurse and midwife. The shift of the time limits that were included in the Act gives physiotherapists additional time to prepare for registration of individual, group, or place of call or employer practices. They will also be prepared and introduced into the legal order of the implementing regulation, which will regulate in detail the keeping of registers, the data that should be reported to registers, medical records, the storage of the medical records, as well as detailed rules on the equipment of the physiotherapist's office if it is recorded in the form of a stationary office. All these legal acts will be prepared in such a way that physiotherapists can safely register medicinal products by 1 April 2019 which will enable them to pursue their own physiotherapist profession. One more change concerning the clarification of the conditions that a physiotherapist must fulfil so that he can pursue his profession on his own. Persons who do not comply with the conditions laid down in Article. 4a, i.e. they do not have the right internship, they will be able to pursue the profession at the request of a doctor, as well as at the request of a physiotherapist. These are the changes we are making in this amendment. I ask the High House to accept and adopt these changes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u353	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The law of 25 September 2015 on the profession of physiotherapist introduced provisions laying down rules for the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist as an independent medical profession. With its entry into force, physiotherapists became a professional group subject to similar rules of profession as doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. However, in part the powers and obligations relating to the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapists are less favourable than those of independent medical professions. This concerns the lack of possibility to pursue a profession in the form of individual and group professional practice. At this time, the situation is detrimental to physiotherapists, a large proportion of whom provide health services in person, often only at the site of the call or at the hospital of another entity. At present, physiotherapists can provide health benefits in the ordinary business. This law changes this disadvantage for physiotherapists by introducing the following solutions. The Act gives the possibility to pursue a profession within the framework of an economic activity in the form of a professional practice with legal status, as in the case of other professions, i.e. in the form of a single-person business activity as: individual physiotherapist practice, individual practice only at the place of call, single-member business activity, individual practice in a medicinal facility on the basis of a contract with a medicinal entity operating the facility or as a civil company, a public company, a partnership. This law indicates that physiotherapists' professional practices will be subject to similar regulations as nurses' practices in meeting the conditions of their medical activities. These are very important elements, very valuable. I'm sure they're very important to physiotherapists. The Act imposes an obligation to include practice in the national register kept by the National Physiotherapists Council. All these solutions are very beneficial for the profession. In particular, I see a particularly positive scope in the area of the extension of the catalogue of activities and positions, the performance of which is also considered to be the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist. The current catalogue deviates significantly from similar catalogues in other professional authorities and, above all, does not take into account the specifics of the physiotherapist profession, which before the entry into force of the Act was carried out in numerous organisational units without the status of a medicinal entity. This applies in particular to social assistance homes, educational establishments, sports clubs and fitness centres and SPA providers. This will ensure that physiotherapists employed there, often performing activities identical to physiotherapists employed in medicinal entities which are not intended to preserve, rescue, restore or improve health, will not lose their right to provide health services after a period of 5 years of employment in these establishments. The proposed law will have a positive social and economic impact and prevent the negative effects of the current restriction on the conduct of business by physiotherapists and the reduction of the number of providers of health services in the field of physiotherapy. I think this bill is a very expected act. I am convinced that physiotherapists strongly support these changes that they are waiting for. In addition, solutions related to the shifting of these time limits related to registration are very good. This is another element, another way out to meet the expectations of a group of physiotherapists. From this point of view, I would like to assure you that the Law and Justice Club fully supports the proposed law and its solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u355	Thank you. Mr Mark Hok, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the draft law amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws. From the statement made by the Minister and the Member of the Commission, I would like to conclude that you have changed your opinion on physiotherapy significantly. We remember that two years ago there were disputes in this House about a civil project, a government project on the establishment of a self-employed physiotherapist, the creation of a professional self-government of physiotherapists. There were protests of those physiotherapists. I think that today we are still much, many steps towards establishing the solutions that physiotherapists expected. This is a very necessary profession, which currently performs about 80,000. persons. As you may remember, problems were due to the fact that, before working on this bill, there were thousands of self-reliant people who considered themselves physiotherapists and who performed treatments, endangering their health, and sometimes the lives of patients, because they were undergoing physical therapy by people who had no education. This law has created a profession, just an independent profession of physiotherapist, which brings together only educated people who have their own self-government office. Therefore, the proposals resulting from your draft law move towards the conclusion and regulation of these amendments. The proposal to pursue a physiotherapist's profession in the form of individual physiotherapist practice or group practice in the form of companies is probably the direction that was expected. It is only a pity that we wasted so much time on unnecessary disputes, because we remember that there was not a very favorable position of the medical community, especially the rehabilitators. But I think these two years -- difficult years -- caused these environments to come across each other. Especially since the expectations of physical and rehabilitation treatments are so great, so huge in a society that lives longer and requires the longest and best rehabilitation. It can be done by those people who are associated in their chambers. Therefore, the proposals contained in this bill support and the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be in favour of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u357	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws. This project once again brings back the subject, for some reasons, problematic for some medical environments, that is, physiotherapists' activities. We perfectly remember the difficulties associated with the entry into force of the physio therapist's profession law. I would like to remind you that on 26 October 2015, President Andrzej Duda signed a law on the profession of physiotherapist. The fact that the laws are accepted by the entire physiotherapist community requires emphasis. The fact that in February 2016 a draft law was submitted by the PiS Group, which proposed extending the entry into force of the Act for an additional period of 18 months, was a huge surprise. This project, which is likely to postpone the entry into force of the physiotherapist's profession law, was the reason for physiotherapists' protests and, as we remember, a very large manifestation of patients and physiotherapists before the Sejm. Despite the complications, the law for which physiotherapists and their patients have been waiting for almost 28 years entered into force on the original date, introducing regulations laying down rules for the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist as an independent medical profession. Today's draft law is the result of solutions that are detrimental to physiotherapists concerning the forms of pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist due to the lack of possibility to pursue the profession in the form of individual and group professional practices. In the 2015 Act, physiotherapists were subject to numerous responsibilities, among others. the need to register as a healthcare professional in the Register of Healthcare Operators. The application for registration of a medicinal product shall be subject to the payment of a higher fee than in the case of an application for registration of a professional practice and to the fulfilment of numerous strict spatial, sanitary or installation requirements. These are among others. requirements for hospitals, large clinics and outpatients. It does not appear that the imposition of such obligations on physiotherapists is in line with the principles of equality and social justice. Especially since doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives can pursue their profession as part of their business activity in a completely separate legal form, the so-called. professional practice. The major change proposed in the project concerns the introduction of the possibility of physiotherapists engaged in business activities not only as a therapeutic entity but also as an individual or group physiotherapeutic practice. This form of benefit reduces organisational requirements compared to medicinal products and is therefore not only easier to organise, but also cheaper. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the proposed changes are absolutely necessary so that physiotherapists can continue their activities and serve their patients. Several dozens of thousands of business physiotherapists await the proposed solution, so I ask you to continue with the next stages of the legislative process. Therefore, I will recommend to the Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15 the support of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u359	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u360	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 28 years of intensive work of the physiotherapist community happily led to the adoption of a law on the profession of physiotherapist. Modern has always stood in the position that the role of physiotherapists in the process of treating patients to health is indistinguishable. Moreover, it often comes down to self-creation of therapy. Here, in this House, we have adopted provisions of the physiotherapist's profession law that have enabled us to meet the challenges facing this dynamically developing area of health protection with a clear benefit for the quality of benefits and thus for the health of Polish patients. The Government's draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws that we are discussing today is in order and to some extent complements the provisions that have been included by the legislator in the Law of 25 September 2015 on the profession of physiotherapist. This amendment gives the possibility to pursue the profession of physiotherapist in the form of individual and group professional practices on the same terms as representatives of other medical professions, i.e. doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. This means that physiotherapists will be exempted from many responsibilities concerning e.g. the organisation of offices or those related to the registration of activities which the legislator puts before other medicinal products, e.g. Hospitals or infirmaries. Moreover, delaying implementation of these provisions in practice after 30 November this year. It would eliminate many physiotherapists by profession - it is estimated that up to 30,000. people - which would lead to another crisis in the health system and would consequently limit access to benefits for patients. The task of the State is to organise a health system that allows the patient to feel safe. The lack of implementation of the rules governing the scope of powers and obligations concerning the forms of pursuit of the physiotherapist's profession could undermine this sense of security. The modern vote will therefore be in favour of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u361	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The physiotherapist's law adopted in September 2015 introduced regulations, ordered certain issues and regulations at that stage. I think it was a pretty important moment. However, life has moved forward and the government bill on which we are debating today, both comes out, as we hear in our statements, in response to the expectations of those who do this profession and provide assistance to all those who need it, and regulates the formal legal conditions that those who do this profession must fulfil in accordance with the applicable letter of the right to do it. Our club is in favour of continuing the legislative work so that without undue delay these amendments can be adopted, the changes so that the profession can be carried out and the services provided as far as possible. We believe that the bill takes account of these conditions, is consistent and we will be in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u363	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her speech in writing. So we move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform. There isn't. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. You're welcome. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is indeed expected by the physiotherapists' community. However, my office was also visited by positions, such opinions that it would be worth leaning over the article as well. 68 of the Act, which provides in paragraph 68 of the Act. 1 that the members of the KIF bodies carry out their duties free of charge and in paragraph 1. 2 - that the national physiotherapist convention establishes a list of functions in the KIF bodies which can be remunerated and the remuneration rules. This information that has come to me is concerned about the pathologically high salaries thus determined and the contradiction between the wording of the mouth. 1 and 2. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has the Minister been informed about this phenomenon, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u365	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u366	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u367	I ask you to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's topic concerns 70,000. physiotherapists. The proposed amendments remove restrictions on the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist and reduce the cost of doing business by reducing the fees associated with the registration of medical operators and restrict organisational and local requirements. This is why thousands of business physiotherapists are waiting for these changes. Without these changes they may have a problem after 30 November with the continued intake of patients. Ladies and gentlemen, again in the bill we have a very long vacathio legis until April next year. ♪ What's preventing this time ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shorten it up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u369	Thank you. I ask you to ask Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u370	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law on healing activity is very good and was long awaited by the physiotherapists. Clearly, the law and the solutions contained in it refer to the laws on the professions of a nurse, midwife or doctor. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Will the National Council of Physiotherapists have similar powers as councils operating in other local governments, e.g. A doctor, a nurse? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u371	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Jarosław Sachaika, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two short questions. How many physiotherapists have registered their activities as medicinal entities in the Register of Healthcare Operators? And second question, maybe the Minister will know. Where were such draconian regulations in the current Act of 26 October 2015, and why were physiotherapists treated differently under that Act than other medical entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u373	Thank you. I ask you to ask Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about physiotherapists who work in orthopedic supply centers, in shops. I mean, are they going to be covered by this 5-year period, i.e. If they work there, they will not lose their right to pursue their profession. Very often physiotherapists run such orthopedic supply centres, they must be well prepared to teach the patient, such as. put on a corset, put on the right equipment. These are people who are well educated, educated. I mean, are these people going to include a record of this catalog as well? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u375	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u376	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will answer some questions briefly. Mrs Tomaszewska asked about the amount of the remuneration and sent out signals on the level of remuneration of people working in bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health did not receive such signals regarding excessive wages. We will certainly be looking at this issue, but after this law has entered into force, we have not received such signals so far. Mrs Navel asked why this period is extended until 1 April 2019 and said that this is too long, and this could cause some problems. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the problems would be if we did not extend this period, because the original law states that by 30 November this year physiotherapists should register medicinal entities, i.e. they would have to meet all the conditions that apply under the Act on Medical Activity, necessary to meet the condition of registration of a medicinal entity in the voivodeship, while the current Act on Medical Activity does not differentiate the requirements which are addressed to a medicinal entity of a different nature or a medicinal entity under which physiotherapists would work. It was therefore necessary to extend this period in order, first, to prepare specific legal acts which would specify the conditions under which these benefits will be granted in the forms laid down in the amended act. The second point is the issue of keeping records of individual, group, office, etc. This is linked to the arming of the local government with the appropriate IT tools and therefore it is necessary for the local government to actually be able to adapt its registers to these requirements, as well as the scope of information that will be presented in the application for a register, etc. Thus, as regards the smooth entry into force of this law, a time was required to allow these entities to adapt to the provisions of that law. Mr Sachajko asked how many physiotherapists have registered medical agents so far. These entities were not registered because these conditions were not fully specified. At this point, they will be able to start the registration process. I would like to inform you that so far physiotherapists have done a profession after registering business - only and exclusively. And Mrs April's question. Of course, physiotherapists who are employed or are engaged in a profession in establishments that sell orthopedic equipment will have this period included in the course of their occupation. Moreover, this is determined by the law and there is a clear provision that this period also falls within the period of exercise of the physiotherapist's profession. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u377	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill will make it easier for physiotherapists to perform their services, while we can be sure that the proposed changes will improve the availability of physiotherapists and thus the health of patients. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that in most cases the use of physiotherapists or rehabilitators takes place on the basis of a private visit. In case of major injuries, the patient is forced to search for appropriate services on his own in order to return to full fitness or increase mobility after trauma. Each of us, who in the past required rehabilitation, knows that the benefits provided by health care are insufficient. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: Is the Ministry of Health planning to transfer more funds for the provision of benefits to restore the motor performance of patients after injuries? According to you, are the rehabilitation benefits paid by the NFZ sufficient for patients? In addition, I would like to draw attention to the problem of our society, which is getting older every year. What rehabilitation programmes have the Ministry prepared just for the elderly?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws. The entry into force of the physiotherapist's law of September 2015 resulted in the profession becoming a self-employed medical profession, which led to strict rules for the performance of the profession. Unfortunately, the regulation of this law obliges physiotherapists engaged in business activities that after 30 November 2018 they will only be able to continue their activities as entities included in the register of medicinal entities. The resulting need for physiotherapists to meet requirements that are disproportionate to the size of their activities, which are mandatory for, inter alia, hospitals or large clinics would eliminate many people who are currently providing health services in person, often only at the place of call or in a treatment facility. Such provisions in the Act would hinder access to benefits and would significantly extend the queues of patients waiting for the services of physiotherapists. I am pleased that, given the well-being of patients and their needs, the health department has decided to resolve this issue by drafting the legislation under discussion today. The novel provides that the profession of physiotherapist will be able to be performed in the form of individual and group apprenticeships. These practices will be subject to the same rules as nursing practices in terms of meeting operating conditions. However, the law introduces the obligation to include this practice in a new register kept by the National Council of Physiotherapists. It is worth noting that the changes made will have a positive impact on the physiotherapist's profession also in financial terms. According to the designers, these solutions will reduce the fee to be paid by physiotherapists for entering in the relevant register five times. I have no doubt that these changes are expected by both physiotherapists and patients who use their services. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the solutions contained in the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u380	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and certain other laws, contained in print 2903, to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production (print No. 2914). I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present a bill amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, contained in print no. 2914. This is the implementation of one of the announcements of the plan for the village - the aid of the Government of Law and Justice for Polish farmers. Let me remind you that helping to reduce the costs of agricultural fuels, which have a great impact on the competitiveness of Polish agriculture, introduced Law and Justice during its first governments, in 2006. This mechanism has worked out, in the opinion of farmers it is strong the support element. We help farmers to reduce the price of the fuel actually purchased for agricultural production on the farm in the most simple way: by returning the funds allocated by the Minister of Finance to the municipalities' offices. We have been analyzing for many years what is happening in terms of diesel consumption on farms. After all, you can see with the naked eye the changes that are taking place, such as the increase in energy consumption in farms, both for vehicle propulsion and for stationary machinery propulsion. In general, agriculture is becoming heavily dependent on energy that is consumed in agricultural production. Therefore, after analysis, as well as consultation with agricultural organisations and after analysis in scientific institutes, which have differing opinions on the amount of fuel consumed in Polish agriculture - this is estimated from 80 to even about 130 l/ha - we are introducing a solution, which is some compromise calculation, which may be extended in the following years, where possible in the budget, of course. We increase the consumption of diesel per hectare of agricultural crops to which excise duty is refunded - from 86 to 100 l/ha of agricultural land. This is to help all those farmers who are users of crops, agricultural land, agricultural land, and it reaches virtually every farm. However, the analysis and votes of farmers indicate that there is an area of agricultural activity where fuel consumption is greater than that of only growing its hectares. This is the production of cattle, and more generally the production of sheep and goats. Although this is a kind of simplification - this mechanism we have applied this year - and there are individual farms dealing with other ruminants, this year, in order not to complicate this mechanism, we propose that only cattle be included, without forgetting, believe me, sheep and goat breeders. Since this year, however, we have introduced a mechanism which is very important, expected by farmers, by cattle producers, namely the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel for cattle, to each large cattle conversion unit. Let me remind you - farmers probably know them, and if they do not, they are able to master them quickly - special conversion units that allow each piece to be converted according to age into such standard, large conversion units. It's about an appropriate conversion rate for older bulls, for small calves, for heifer at the right age and for cows. We introduce the principle that cattle producers will return the excise duty from 30 l to each large conversion unit. This is really a historic event. It opens a mechanism that we will implement, which will help those who not only grow fields but also carry out energy-intensive production directions, especially in the field of intra-farm transport, the transport of silage, haycombs, bedding, animal manure - all that is required on this farm also in winter, at a time when a typical farm without animal production tractor stands in the garage. This increase in excise duty returns generates significant budgetary costs. To cover the costs of this excise duty refund in the Budget Act for 2019 we reserved PLN 1180 million. I will remind you that in the year passing in the budget is for this - and this is enough - 911 million PLN. That's over 300 million, in addition, compared to this mechanism that we introduced many years ago, which worked out. The Act does not raise any particular controversy, I believe, but also does not require particular knowledge to determine how the farmer will calculate the amount of return. These are hectares which are in the land register, 100 l and are fixed once a year, by the end of December, the rate of return. This mechanism is a little more complicated, but objective. It must be used to ensure that there is no abuse of the return mechanism for bovine animals. This is the determination of the average annual state of the large conversion units on the holding. Nor should there be any particular problems here, because the animal registration system operated by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture is an objective source of data that a farmer can obtain from the county restructuring agency's office at any time. This will be done by submitting an application by the farmer and issuing an appropriate document by the head of the district office, which will determine the amount of large conversion units that are entitled to excise duty refund in a very simple way. Namely, it is the number of large conversion units per last day of each month per year. It is also a matter of not hurting anyone, because there are also movements of the herd, there are sales, new calves are born, farmers buy cattle during the year. This is therefore a dynamic process and this needs to be taken into account. So the rule will be this: determining on the basis of the units the actual times the ratios of the large conversion units on the last day of each month; the sum of these 12 months must be divided by 12 and the average annual state of the large conversion units for which this 30-litre return will apply. It was also consulted with agricultural organisations, it is well received. Some say that maybe in the next few years you'd have to try to raise the volume of gallons. This isn't a closed trial. On the other hand, I am convinced - and I want my satisfaction, my joy to share with you - that this is a very good step in the right direction. I ask the High House to adopt a draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, contained in print No 2914. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u382	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u383	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The amendments made to this law aim to increase the limit on the consumption of diesel per hectare of agricultural crops and to introduce a limit on the consumption of diesel for one large cattle conversion unit in the case of an agricultural producer holding or rearing bovine animals for which part of the excise duty included in the price of the fuel purchased for that production is to be refunded. Due to the increase in production costs at low prices of agricultural products, we are introducing changes which result from the need to increase the competitiveness of Polish agricultural holdings on the EU market. Increasing quality requirements and technological standards for agricultural production and animal production contribute to increasing fuel demand and other energy carriers for heating, lighting or equipment and machinery. The study shows that the average consumption of diesel used for agricultural production per hectare of agricultural land is 82 The average consumption of diesel used for livestock farming or livestock farming per large unit of conversion of bovine animals shall be at the level of 30 and 105 l. Therefore, the draft law accepts the consumption of diesel used for agricultural production of 100 l per hectare of agricultural land and 30 l per large unit of cattle conversion. According to the new wording of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 The amended Act will require the agricultural producer applying for excise duty reimbursement for the use of diesel in livestock farming or livestock farming to accompany the application for reimbursement of the legal document issued by the head of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture with an average annual number of large cattle conversion units on the holding. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes proposed in the draft law will increase the competitiveness of Polish farmers on the European Union market by reducing the costs of agricultural production. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. Excuse me, we're moving a little order on the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u385	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Because of the media activity, I asked for a change in the order of my colleagues to speak after me. I'll be very brief. Indeed, agricultural production costs are rising, especially since energy prices are also rising recently. The issue of the refund of excise duty on agricultural fuel is not new. In practically every term we have introduced amendments, going from 80 gr to 85, 90 gr to 1 PLN. The direction that you have adopted at the moment, I consider to be correct, a good one. Indeed, these solutions are worthwhile to be introduced. It is also worthwhile, because this has often been mentioned by agricultural organisations in previous years, to think about a slightly greater diversity, not only because of animal production, but also because of the type of soil, the nuisance of crops or the nuisance of production, it is also about mountain areas. So the direction is good, certainly worth developing. The Members' Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats supports this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u386	Thank you very much. Now Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present a position towards the government draft law amending the excise duty refund Act included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No. 2914. This is a project advocated by agricultural producers for a long time, due to the increasing costs of diesel and the amount of oil actually consumed in agricultural production. Due to the increasing mechanisation of technological processes, while moving people to other works, i.e. the conversion of production costs from personal to material, agricultural environments and farmers themselves requested to increase the limits, the old law was 86 l/ha, to 130, or even 138 l, and from 30 l in the new law, it is a DJP, to 50 l in the case of cattle production. These demands are justified because independent agricultural and mechanization institutes have confirmed whether they have confirmed, in research, such quantities of oil consumption per hectare. We believe that the issue of applying for excise duty in one administrative municipality should be reconsidered where agricultural production is carried out in many municipalities. One novelty in the bill, one can say: the total novelty in the project, in relation to the old law is the introduction of excise duty drawback in the case of cattle production. This naturally led to demands from other agricultural production sectors, namely pigs, sheep, goats, horses and geese. This is a strong justification when we consider the principle of equality between production sectors, and in view of the drought, it would alleviate its ailments as regards the pockets and financial condition of individual farms. The draft law does not address the problem of farms that do not buy fuel but use external services where the price is included in the fuel value. These farms are growing, especially small ones, as the purchase of expensive machines becomes inefficient. In addition, we have doubts as to whether a certificate from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture is needed for the identification of large bovine animals. In our opinion, a statement by the owner of the farm should be sufficient and the agency's staff should focus, for example. on the timeliness of direct payments and the processing of investment applications under the RDPs. I have a question for the Minister. With all due respect, the new idea, among farmers, will surely be a positive echo, can you give us today, Minister, the proposed rate of excise duty for 2019, what would show the increase in the amount of financial resources in order to dance agricultural production? The Civic Platform Club is in favour of further proceding this law, which requires corrections, educating on the right committee, whether it's finance or agriculture. Minister! I have a little more time, let me make a statement. May the omen of your promises in the various environments you are talking about be true, because Polish agriculture is now on its knees in many cases, in many industries, for many reasons. This is an excellent opportunity to help our farms so that we are partners for our neighbours' farms, from other countries that are much stronger, more organised, are at a higher level of management. We believe that this project, which you have presented - as I said before: we are in favour of further proceding - should have an impact on better functioning, while it needs a little correction. Will the state budget be able to put in place these demands I was talking about? It's hard for me to say. There's always not enough money, there could always be more. Hence the environments that are described in the further parts of the bill were clear: we will see what Members, including the Minister, on this subject They will. For now, congratulations on this idea. I think everything's gonna be okay and it's gonna be a good echo. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u388	Thank you very much. Now Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Ladies and gentlemen! Absolutely yes, this is a project that is worth supporting and the Kukiz club15 will recommend support for this project to its Members. However, I would point out that during the consultation of farmers' organisations, producers pointed out that as far as the quantity of diesel used for agricultural production per hectare is concerned, it is sometimes up to 138 l. You are proposing to increase this excise duty refund limit from 86 to 100 l. The question is, what about the other 38 l. If the farmer in question does not even have the opportunity to obtain the actual, real reimbursement of the costs he has incurred or the fuel he has bought, what is the incentive from the State to buy the remaining 38 l in legal circulation rather than without excise duty and without any taxes? So that I encourage you to re-examine this and think about it, enter into dialogue with environmental representatives of both farmers and agricultural producers, in order to consider whether it can actually introduce some kind of fork or several levels, depending on... What Mr Aichler said. They are different, so to speak, agricultural production departments, which have different levels of fuel use to achieve a given effect. So I'm pointing out that these 38 l can still be bought somewhere in the gray area, and we wouldn't want that. We just want farmers to have an incentive to buy normal, legal fuel, and then get a refund of excise duty, just so that agricultural production pays off for them. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will present a further part of the position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to supplement the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the amendment of the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. As we all know, agricultural production is not a very profitable economic activity at the moment, very often we hear directly from farmers that they are paying for this activity. It is not profitable, but due to its attachment to the land, farmers continue to remain in this business because of their tradition. The law goes as far as farmers' expectations are concerned, but I think we're still being too careful about what's called excise duty drawback, but in fact, maybe it was different to say that we didn't collect this excise duty. And here we would call for the maximum amount of this excise duty to be refunded, as well as the exit to other animal productions. We should not favour one animal production in relation to other productions. The Minister was very right to say that we can count all animals into large arts, and we should do so in this direction. On the other hand, we could consider whether we should try to change this return model at all when it comes to fuel. There are different ways. There are countries in which there is no refund of excise duty at all, but there are also countries where there is an unlimited amount of this fuel which can be used by farmers. This is the fuel that farmers can use for their agricultural production as much as they need. We have already talked here today about the fact that depending on the soil, on the production, on the plant, this fuel is used quite a lot and it is varied. For example, in the United States they have agricultural fuel dyed and use very much of this fuel as much as they need. And at the same time, it works the other way - if a farmer from the United States were caught driving his car on such an agricultural fuel, it wouldn't pay him so much, so they don't cheat. And we should trust farmers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] trust citizens to use this fuel as intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u392	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska is not here? So we're going to ask questions. Three Members have come forward. I'm setting a question time for two minutes, and I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister what possibilities he sees and when other agricultural production departments, animal production could also benefit from this excise duty refund included in the price of agricultural fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's very good that you want to return the excise duty to the farmers and that the budget has been secured. But on the subject of this point, I would like to ask the Minister: What happens to helping those affected by drought? Because the farmers signal, being in my office, that in this situation they would receive 1000 PLN of drought aid, and they would receive only 250 PLN. The intervention buying of apples at 25 gr per kilogram was also to be started, and we have a signal that the sadists are still selling apples at 8 gr. Minister, please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister very much for this valuable initiative. This is proof that the ministry understands farmers and listens to demands. This initiative has already been very expected by farmers and thank you very much for this, because it will have an impact on the profitability of agricultural holdings. I would also like to ask, Minister, if it is possible in the future to support smaller farms where poultry production is carried out, sometimes geese, 4, 5 or 10 000, or to produce sidings where these equipment, where the tractor is used all year round. The point is whether, in some perspective, it is possible to capture these farms. I am not thinking about large farms here, but about individual farms that produce this type of production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u398	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u399	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also have a question regarding this upper limit of 138 l, actually not the limit, but the quantity of litres that can be used for agricultural production. Dear Member State, does the Ministry provide for a possible increase of this limit of 100 l to 110.120 l and perhaps to those indicated 138 l? If so, when? If not, what are the specific numbers behind it? It'll probably indicate that we can't afford to spend so much money. I also ask you to answer the question whether you provide for the possibility of introducing some kind of differentiation grid depending on what type of production it is, as Mr Ajchler pointed out, for example. the type of soil, as is the class of this soil, so that farmers, who e.g. in fact, they must have used more fuel for agricultural production, they could have recovered relatively more excise duty paid as a result of the purchase of fuel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u400	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the positive assessment of this increase in excise duty refund. I also understand that all the comments you have made are due to concern for the state of agriculture. I'm glad that there is such full agreement on this matter. I could also say that everyone had a chance to prove themselves and take such action earlier, they would deserve respect and greater support from farmers, but I do not want to be malicious here. The issue of increased rates is being raised. Yes, every such decision has specific implications for the budget. You have to really look at it. This mechanism is very costly, cost-effective for the budget. This is PLN 1200 million. There is a great deal of money to be spent on this. Next year, we'll be analyzing how much we can afford. I think the stakes are very, very high this year. I do not fully understand the proposal by the Member speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform to determine, without any document, the volume of livestock production on the farm, of those cattle converted into large conversion units. I must say that very often the farmer is not even fully remembered, if this is a large farm, how many of these pieces have passed through the farm during the year. Secondly, I know that this would be one of the basic allegations of the lack of supervision of public spending if we only introduced a declaration by the farmer on how many cows he had on the farm. I will remind you that for many years with varying happiness there has been a system of registration and identification of animals, which is already very clear. It seems that getting simple information from the office of the county agency about how many of these pieces have gone through the farm is not an unnecessary meth for the farmer or some big complication for the restructuring and modernisation agencies. That's what we create these databases for, among other things. They are a requirement of the European Union to have a review of all animals living in the European Union. This is primarily because of food safety. If something comes up, God forbid, in the final product in the store, we can recreate on the basis of a specific registration mechanism, on which farm and in which pieces the problem has arisen. But by the way, with regard to the creation of these complex databases, we have the opportunity to generate a very simple response for the farmer closest to his place of residence, i.e. the county office. The proposal that Marek Sawicki put forward on behalf of PSL is interesting. It's a variation in the amount of return per hectare, and I'm going to say this in some simplification, depending on the type of soil, the terrain. Each farmer knows that the soil is heavy, watery, clayy, otherwise on the slopes. Otherwise, very weak sandy soils are grown somewhere under the forest. Perhaps this should be differentiated, only in the case of these weakest soils, as regards these mythical 138 l, as the Member representing the Kukiz club stated15, would be much, much less than 80 l/ha. Maybe this should actually vary, but the complexity of the system itself is increasing immeasurably. This system would also be called into question by farmers who would say this: my soil is weak, but it is, sir, in the area of the sole or other complex elements, that it will consume more or less fuel. We have simplified this on the basis of a compromise between these larger and smaller quantities of fuel used. We propose such a solution, which is a simple, logical solution and in a sense averaging fuel consumption in various types of farms in Poland. There's also a thread about farms that don't have a tractor. Let me remind you that you don't need a tractor, there's no requirement to have a vehicle to buy fuel. This is done on the basis of the amount of land that is in the records assigned to the holding - I say this in some simplification. On the other hand, I would like to stress very strongly that this is not another surcharge of 1 ha. The aid of up to 1 ha is granted to farmers from another pool, from EU funds, which have been supported for many years by national measures, and these subsidies constitute aid for all other types of production, including aid for those who have pigs or geese who are so concerned by someone here, who bear various types of crop costs on farms. That's what area subsidies are for. On the other hand, we as one of the few European countries, I stress: one of the few European countries introduced an additional aid mechanism in 2006 by the Law and Justice Decision - this applies to fuel. I emphasize this very strongly. Recently, when a group of Members with Mr Sachaika and me, when I had not yet served as Minister, was in Austria - on which we can model in many respects - there has been confusion. We saw a huge surprise in the eyes of the Austrians when we asked them what their fuel subsidies were. They said they hadn't heard of a mechanism like this. With regard to the introduction of another type of fuel, which was considered in Poland in 2006, i.e. colored fuel, fuel specially contaminated with dye, which would be this indicator during the inspection, whether it is dedicated only to machinery and agricultural equipment, agricultural vehicles or used for other purposes, this was not - and it seems to me that this is still the case, although I am no longer sure - possible for organisational and logistical reasons. Fuel stations, which at that time functioned, mainly in rural areas, and there we are supplying ourselves, we farmers are filling our tractors there, these stations usually had one tank - in SKRs, in some small, growing petrol stations by the roads there was one tank and the owner of the station was not able to diversify universal diesel and additionally separate the tank with a distributor for agricultural diesel. Perhaps, at the moment, large stations would be able to separate separate tanks, although all of these also immediately generate additional costs, but after all, a large proportion of farmers are still supplying themselves with smaller fuel stations and this would, in my opinion, be too difficult for farmers to obtain this marked fuel, most often red-coloured. That is why we have adopted the simplest method - excise duty refund. It'll be settled, the bill's talking about it here, by the end of December. So far this has been the end of November, this year we will not be able to make it until the end of November, and yet the mechanism is due to enter from 1 January 2019. These invoices, which are already collected by farmers, purchase invoices, will already be cleared according to this new mechanism. This is also a very precise term and this cannot be accelerated due to the fact that the excise duty on fuel is determined in euro and the conversion of the euro into gold is done according to the rate given on 1 October, and for direct payments to agriculture, I will remind you last September. So this excise duty, which is in force in 2019, is, if I remember correctly, 21 euros to 1000 l. We applied the refund in 2006 and it still works. Let me repeat: this is not an additional surcharge of 1 ha, this is a surcharge for the purchased fuel. The farmer buys the fuel and with his receipt, the bill, the invoice twice a year goes as close as possible - to his municipal office, and there after a few days is a transfer to his account. I don't quite understand the constant comment that someone's given 138 l. I also know the calculations pointing to 82 l. Okay, which one are we gonna take? Saying that we give 100 l and you still have to remember 38 l, give it back, because if you don't, the farmer's gonna buy it in the gray zone... To be honest, I don't understand this argument. [[I'll explain.]] And I would also like to say that the determination of our government is going in such a way that there is no gray zone, so that there is no stealing, which has so far existed in the fuel trade in Poland, buying on the left, buying fuel supposedly cheaper just because it was not paid VAT. It's all over right in front of us. So I don't really understand where the farmer's mythical additional 38 l, calculated by one of the institutes - only that there are many others that have calculated other average consumption rates - would buy. Also, since this is not an additional surcharge of up to 1 ha or other types of production, we do not foresee - in addition to large flocks of ruminants, where costs are much higher - the use of this mechanism for other groups of animals. Aid to field farmers and pigs shall be granted through direct payments. This is related both to the cultivation of the field, as well as to the possible removal of manure or manure, this also applies to the cultivation and harvesting of what is cultivated in the fields. On the other hand, farmers themselves, cattle producers, pointed to much higher costs and fuel consumption on these farms, so in responding positively to their expectations, we decided to do so. Besides, I'm looking at Minister Romanczuk, a specialist in cattle farming. This also applies to other forms of aid provided for cattle farmers, such as the inclusion in the estimation of drought losses - for the first time in history this year - of the possibility of deduction of the value of bovine animals with a mechanism for calculating losses for the whole holding, which resulted in a percentage of losses not exceeding 30% taking into account the value of bovine animals. Therefore, for those farmers who have animals, I have introduced a mechanism that allows to calculate losses only in the field. Thus, aid for livestock farms is numerous and one of the forms is the support mechanism for agricultural fuel. Mrs Navel wants me to answer in writing the question of drought and apples. I'd love to do that, but one sentence. The drought aid is implemented rhythmically, the agency has now achieved the efficiency of drought payments, and for yesterday it is 46 million a day. She has already paid about 600 million PLN. Farmers have put in about 230 thousand at the moment. conclusions. These data are given to me at the end of the day, so the aid mechanism for farmers affected by the drought is implemented. We did not wait, as happened in other years, and above all in 2015, to which other years are often compared, until all farmers submit their proposals and then we will determine how much money will be enough. In 2015, it was 400 PLN per hectare, using an insurance-dependent mechanism, which Mr Sawicki also does not remember, which is why he accuses me in the media. At that time farmers, the vast majority of farmers - and they were covered by the insurance of 2,800 thousand. ha, I checked it thoroughly - they received 200 PLN per hectare. This year, depending on the degree of insurance of the holding - this is the mechanism introduced by Mr Sawicki in 2008, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] and at the moment it disputes the provisions which it has adopted - this mechanism determines a refund of PLN 1000, PLN 500 or half in the absence of insurance for half of the holding. But I would like to respond to this. This fuel-related aid serves farms and larger and smaller ones. We try to respect all the farms, we don't divide them into bigger and smaller ones, rather we divide them into these, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who need Polish help, and they all need Polish help. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u402	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is intended to match the financial support for agricultural fuels with the current consumption. As explained in recent years, agricultural production costs have increased, including those related to the use of fuel. The increase in production costs at low prices for agricultural products makes agricultural production less profitable. At the same time, annual fuel costs are increasing in the overall costs of agricultural production. However, the measures in question in relation to livestock are only applicable to bovine animals. In the project other types of breeding were omitted, such as. pigs, sheep, goats and horses. The argument of the Ministry, which indicates a lack of budget resources, is unacceptable. In accordance with the above, I ask you to answer the question: Did the Ministry even comment on the Budget Law on the increase of resources for this purpose by extending the range of types of farming? In addition, I ask you to answer the question: Did the Ministry envisage an increase in funding for these purposes in the ongoing work on the current budget law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u404	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, contained in print No 2914, to the Committee on Public Finance, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the occasion of the 100th National Festival. Anniversary of Independence Recovery (print No 2931). I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Kruk to provide the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 11 November 1918 was a crucial day in the history of Europe and Poland. A truce was signed in Compiegne, near Paris, ending World War I. On the same day in Warsaw, the Regency Council handed over power to Józef Piłsudski. The date of these events was considered a symbolic date for Poland's regaining independence. I would like to remind you that the High Chamber has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 by the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence as follows: On 11 November 1918 the dream of generations of Poles was fulfilled - the Polish State was born again. After the partitions and 123 years of captivity, russification and Germanization, after the great uprisings, after the so-called. The problem of Poland disappeared from the international arena, free Poland returned to the map of the world. Our nation came out of the ancient trial victorious because of those who remained relentless. The symbolic date of 11 November was firmly rooted in the national independence tradition, so that its memory could not destroy the enemies of the Republic. The regaining of independence was accomplished through a struggle full of dedication and heroism not only in battlefields, but also in daily struggles for the preservation of the spiritual and material substance of the national and in the daily life of Polish families. It was also because people, representing various camps - the left-wing camp and the national camp, people and socialists - were able to communicate on the most important issues. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the generations, thanks to which Poland regained independence. He pays tribute to the memory of the defenders of the Constitution on 3 May, the soldiers of the Kościuszko Insurrection, the Legions of Dąbrowski and the national uprisings. He pays tribute to the memory of those who fought in the First World War and in the years 1918 and 1920: Lviv defenders, soldiers of the Greater Poland Uprising and Silesian Uprisings and heroes of the Polish-Bolshevik War who defended the young independence of Poland. Gratitude is also due to those who, after regaining independence, undertook the task of building a strong and modern state - the Second Republic. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland announces 2018 as the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence. He also hopes that, like the Independence Fathers - Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Ignacy Paderewski, Wincent Witos, Wojciech Korfanty, Ignacy Daszyński and many others - Poles will abandon disputes to celebrate together this joyful jubilee in unity and reconciliation. High Izbo! For Poles, November 11 is one of the most important days of the year, and the National Independence Day is one of the most important public holidays. The enhanced character of the 100-year anniversary of the project applicant wishes to celebrate by establishing an additional day off from work. I would stress that this is only about this year. I am presenting to the High House a draft act on the National Celebration on the occasion of 100. The Independence Reclaim Anniversary. Here's what it says: To celebrate and commemorate a great day for the Polish Nation 100. The Independence Recovery Anniversary of 11 November 2018 is hereby established as follows: Art. 1. 12 November 2018 is a solemn National Holy. Art. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Art. 3. On 12 November 2018, the rules on restriction of trade and trade activities in commercial establishments on Sundays and holidays referred to in the Act of 10 January 2018 on restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days shall not apply. U. z 2018 poz. 305, late. zm.). Art. 4. The Act shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. I would like to point out that this year, on 11 November, is on Sunday, and hence this Episcopal Act. When we present this project, we refer to tradition. By a decree on the occasion of the opening of the Legislative Sejm, the then head of state Józef Piłsudski announced such a one-off national holiday on 10 February 1919. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! November 11 is usually a day off from work. Making 12 November this year free will therefore not have a significant impact on economic growth compared to previous years, nor will it have a long-term impact on economic processes. The project, on the other hand, undoubtedly has a positive social impact. I would like to ask the High Sejm to announce the bill submitted and establish a national holiday on 12 November, which will be a day off from work, which will allow Poles to celebrate the anniversary of regaining independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u406	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law on the occasion of 100. Anniversary of Independence Reclaim, print number 2931. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Several generations of Poles took part in the process of fighting for independence. It could be said that it began with the battles of the Bark Confederates against the Moskalos, then there were a series of national uprisings, finally the outbreak of World War I, the armed act, the fights led by kmdt. Józef Piłsudski. During World War I other Polish formations were created, hundreds of thousands of Poles also fought in the armed forces, but thinking about independent Poland. I think that such a great effort, both armed and carried out in other areas of activity, for example culture, requires a special celebration at a time when we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Sacrificing so many generations of Poles and hundreds of thousands of our compatriots who have died, who have given their lives, fighting for the independence of our homeland, requires such a stronger honor. I think that this is also a moment when it will be possible to commemorate both the leaders of this fight, the already mentioned fathers of independence: Marshal Piłsudski, Dmowski, Paderewski, Daszyński, Korfanty, Witos, as well as outstanding generals of the Polish army: Kazimierz Sosnkowski, Tadeusz Jordan Rozwadowski, Józef Haller, Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, as well as the Polish priests and hundreds of thousands of Polish soldiers fighting on all fronts from the bar confederation to the First World War. Since the process of regaining independence did not end on 11 November 1918, I think it is also worth remembering those who later fought in the defence of Lviv and Eastern Małopolska, in the victorious Wielkopolska Uprising, the Silesian Uprisings, and most of all in the Polish-Bolshevik War. Because it was only a victory over the Bolsheviks in 1920 that established Polish independence. The Law and Justice Club clearly supports the parliamentary bill on the occasion of the 100th National Festival. Anniversary of Reclaiming Independence, thanking, among others. Councilor of Warsaw, Paweł Zalewski, who also came up with such an initiative. So here was also a factor of social involvement in this matter. At the same time, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I request that you join the second reading immediately after the conclusion of the first, without sending back the draft Polish National Day Act on the occasion of 100. The Independence Reclaim Anniversary to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u408	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u409	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, it is my pleasure to present the position of the club on the draft National Day Act on the occasion of 100. The Independence Reclaim Anniversary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 11 November 2018 is a special day to be celebrated in a unique way. It is a celebration of all Poles, regardless of party membership, political views or religion. It is a holiday of every Pole, regardless of age, occupation or social status. This holiday deserves to be celebrated in a solemn and grand way. The actions taken to celebrate this beautiful anniversary should reach every Pole and for this purpose millions of zlotys have been secured in the budget of the Prime Minister's and President's office. The draft law introduces a work-free day for 12 November 2018. This bill is another legal piece written on the knee and in an unthinkable way. After all, it has long been known that the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence falls on 11 November 2018. It's not a secret, you didn't discover it a few days ago. Three weeks before these events, you submit a law introducing an extra day off from work. The establishment of 12 November on a free day is justified by the fact that an additional day off will allow compatriots to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. This law again divides Poles. Firstly, it does not go to all employees because it does not apply to employees in the commercial sector. Secondly, the bill strikes entrepreneurs and employers. As experts point out, introducing an extra day off in such a short period of time means great chaos for employers, especially for the industrial sector - for production and plants working in the shift system. The experts of the Confederation of Leviathan say that this bill could cost hundreds of millions of zlotys. Thirdly, if you are writing about a worthy celebration by your countrymen of this holiday, and only some of your employees will have a day off from work, what will you offer the rest of your employees? What will happen for entrepreneurs and employers? What will retired people, pensioners, benefits and non-workers get? Should the only symbol of regaining independence be a day off from work? A beautiful symbolism addressed to each Pole could be prepared throughout the year. After all, in the budget of the Prime Minister's office and the President, here I repeat, you have reserved millions of zlotys for this purpose. Where's the money? What happened to the money? In the implementation of Law and Justice, even the celebration of regaining independence by Poland is for equal and equal. Like most of your laws, this bill divides and sorts. So let's call it a holiday plus. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will not support the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u410	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the National Day Act on the occasion of 100. The Independence Reclaim Anniversary. The applicants are putting us in a pretty difficult position. Unacceptance of this project in their intention means opposition to the need to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence in 1918. But that's not true. We worship this anniversary in different ways and do not need any weirdness in this regard. We see the effort and tribute of blood and life which those who brought and established Poland on the altar of Polish freedom gave to them, and the memory of the events connected with it passed on to the next generations. However, the vague argument of the applicants cannot be accepted that the bill will promote longer celebrations, as this argument contains a fundamental logical error. The Act excludes, says which entities will be able to operate, about large-area shops. Does the bill have a positive social impact? For who? For those you're excluding from the celebrations, working in... I'm not gonna name those entities, not to be charged with advertising them. Is celebrating a national celebration on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence supposed to be about supplying trade, including networks of large commercial and service corporations? Do you want to compensate them for the lack of profits on statutory days excluded from large-area trade? Or do you want to establish a new tradition of celebration - in commercial warehouses? With regard to the draft law, it must be noted that there is no logic in the argument that the establishment of a day off from all work except trade does not allow a measurable determination of the consequences for the state budget. It's so simple that you don't even need the finance minister's knowledge to figure it out. To sum up, despite our general principle, and we are in favour of directing draft laws and resolutions to continue to proceed at the meetings of the Sejm or in committees, in this case as Kukiz,15 we make an exception, but in line with our logic, that the draft laws harmful to the Polish society and absurd should be rejected, we apply for the rejection of the draft law at first reading, which is to be recorded and put to the vote in the voting block. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u412	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another example of how Law and Justice unfortunately tries to make society happy. It had a year to prepare all celebrations related to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. We are absolutely in favour of celebrating this holiday with dignity and dignity, because it is indeed a special day. I'd just like to remind you that it's November 11th. One thing law and justice can do, i.e. spend money, but not your own, but from someone else's pockets. All studies and calculations show that one day off from work is a loss to the economy of PLN 6.5 billion, 0.3% GDP. For entrepreneurs, this is about 3.5 billion. Personal costs alone are PLN 1.5 billion. If you have so much money and you're bragging so much, I suggest you compensate all the entrepreneurs for the losses they're going to suffer. Pay them to celebrate like this. We had a thousand schools for the millennium of the Polish state. Why not build, say, 100 kindergartens, 100 daycares? If you want a trace of this holiday to go on, then let's do something like this. Instead of throwing 6.5 million PLN into the mud, for less money we can afford to build 100 crèches, 100 kindergartens or put on 150 km of highway and call it the 100-year highway. Unfortunately, you're offering us a solution that I take as a bonus for the PiS voters. The point is that in the second round of the election, they vote for the representatives of Law and Justice. I want to assure you that we will not be fooled, deceived, and I hope that society will see your intentions. Your hypocrisy reaches the zenith. On the one hand, you forbid Poles from shopping on Sundays to celebrate the holy day, or Sunday. Now you are proposing a bill - these people on the day of a really great Polish holiday are going to go to the store and shop. It's sick, isn't it? You just don't know what to think anymore. [[Applause]] Consider whether you are common sense, for this really does not have any logical justification. Please don't spend and throw 6 billion zlotys into the mud, just because someone came up with such a silly idea 2 or 3 weeks before this day. What will happen to the operations, what will happen to the trials in the courts that are fixed for that day? You guys just think of something first. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about it. And then do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u414	Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2018 is indeed a particularly important year - the year of Poland's regaining independence, the year in which we celebrate the 100th anniversary of women's electoral rights and the 445th anniversary of the Warsaw Confederation, the first act of tolerance in Europe. Certainly, many initiatives that will promote these important dates are needed and important, but I am not convinced that the law extending by 1 day the feast of 11 November, written 2 weeks before this feast, is precisely what is to constitute this date in particular, and is indeed the most necessary today. Unless you just need one day, so-called. day after, to cure the moral hangover after in 2018 we celebrated celebrations related to the 100th anniversary of independence, after, instead of joining, you shared, after you spoiled the social capital that could be built in just this unique year. If an extension of one day is meant to serve this purpose, then for health's sake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u416	Mr Richard Petru, Liberal and Social. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have this question for the applicants: Who of you has just remembered that November 11 is soon? Reporting such a bill a few weeks before the festival is a sign of a lack of thought or deliberate destructive action. Question one: Do you have... Sir, are you listening? Are you aware of the cost of 1 day off work? This is a loss of PLN 7 billion for the Polish economy. Question two: Are you aware of how many holidays are available in other European countries? In England there are 8, in Germany there are 8, in France there are 11 and in Poland there are 13. Adding the 14th day, you make Poland a record player when it comes to the number of holiday days. The question is, are we... [[Once every 100 years.]] Independence Day is 11 November, Member. If you want to celebrate the PiS country any longer, take a leave of absence. [[Applause]] Take a leave of absence. You can spend this time as you wish, as Mr Meysztowicz suggested, e.g. Shopping. Now the question is: Who will pay the employees for this time, for their free time? Employers? What kind of money? Are you willing to spend money on those companies that won't be able to, so to speak, pay people for their free time? What about the contracts to be signed that day? What about the export that's due at this point? What about the operations to be carried out, as Mr Meysztowicz said, what about the courts that are scheduled for the hearing at the moment? It's in a dozen days, in fact. What are you gonna do about it? The question is, have any of you thought about how much the economy costs? Today it was debated, at second reading, a bill introducing a tax on entrepreneurship, a tribute, as you call it, solidarity, because you lack the money to help the disabled. And here with a light hand - this shows your approach to the economy - you throw away 7 billion PLN without thinking at all about consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill must be rejected at first reading. But I would like to hear from the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, what are the financial consequences and who will take responsibility for all the chaos in the economy that will be caused by this bill? It just shows how nonchalantly you approach public and private money. Ladies and gentlemen, the Poles will clear you of your 14th day off work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u418	The questions were raised by seven ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of requests for questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Employers are alarmed: the idea of another day off from work introduced a few days before Independence Day can cause chaos in companies and cost millions of zlotys. We've already got about 150 days off a year. We're resting more or less. Day three, so I don't know where that came from. We should be celebrating in our hearts, not on couches. Many believe that this project is populism and politics. If the Law and Justice are so tired of celebrating the day of independence, maybe he should take a leave of absence for the next day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u420	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law introducing November 12 as a day off, as a holiday, is another idea of the PiS, which will damage our economy. In Europe, no country has so many days off. After all, our economy comes from work, not from benefits and holidays. We've got extras, pencil cases, free days, and a bunch of different benefits you're introducing. In the explanatory memorandum of this law, you admit that it can undoubtedly have a negative impact on economic growth, but in a few quarters it is possible to make up for it - as I understand it by entrepreneurs. It's their shoulders you're putting on another duty, another burden to make it harder for them. This also has 7 billion, which this day off will cost the Polish economy, so they have... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...pay the entrepreneur. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u422	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u423	I'm in a difficult situation because I know how important a celebration is to us, but on the other hand, I'm an entrepreneur and I would like to say to Law and Justice that if they're so good to you and so good that they want to give away their days off, then let them pay for it. I have no reason to finance Law and Justice ideas out of my own pocket because it's coming out of my pocket, not out of yours. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, Piłsudski arrived at the Main Station in 1918. Make this Main Station 100 years old. [[Applause]] Show me what you can do, leave something after this holiday except lying around with a bull. That's not how we're gonna build anything. If you're celebrating, leave something behind. If we are just in this period of 100 years, let us leave something concrete for the next generations, not lying bulls and smoking cigarettes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u424	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u425	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I wonder if this is a question of ignorance of history and dates, because November 12 is not November 11th. We're celebrating November 11th, and you want to do the 12th. But that 11 is free. Or is it such a philosophy that the wealth of nations comes from benefits and days off work? No, this philosophy has been compromised with the end of socialism, but the state is stubborn in this philosophy and is damaging the economy. 7 billion PLN - this is how much our economy will lose on this extra day off from work, but this is the economy. What are people gonna lose? Scheduled medical visits, cancelled, scheduled transport cycles, you will need to change production cycles, cancel scheduled exams. Where are you going? Why would you think that? On behalf of Modernity, I apply for the rejection of this draft law at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't be disorganized for reasons... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...absolutely absurd. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u426	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you. I wonder what Marshal Piłsudski or Roman Dmowski would say about this project. Would we rebuild Poland from lying down and taking a day off? Would we build a great Poland from lying and doing nothing? Ladies and gentlemen! November 11th is a great day, but as it was rightly said, November 11th is not November 12 and in this situation creating some extra day off from work seems pointless. On the other hand, I still have a question for the living and present here in the Chamber, the rapporteur. Why do you differentiate Poles? Why do you want to give one Pole a day off and one Pole doesn't? What is the reason for such a division? Why should some go to work and some don't go to work? After all, when you introduced Sundays free from trade, part of Sundays free from trade, these were the reasons that this is a special day that this is a holiday and you have to sit at home. What made you suddenly change your mind? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u428	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 11 November 2018 is indeed a very important day for Poles, but 11 November is this very important day, not 12. Who came up with the idea of doing the day off on November 12th, the day after Christmas? Now, if we're celebrating our birthday, should we take the next day off as a celebration after our birthday too? [[Corrections.]] After all, the holiday is in two and a half weeks, and today you wake up to make November 12 a day off from work. What about manufacturing in companies? What about the appointments? What about the surgeries? What about the doctor's appointments? What about the trial in court? After all, people have planned this a long time ago, and now you suddenly wake up before the second round of the election, that you have to give people a day off from work. We're definitely against this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u430	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Applicants shall have no ideological or social sensitivity. The fact that they're confusing dates and that they want to celebrate another day could still be forgiven. On the other hand, this solution, ladies and gentlemen, you will hit not only entrepreneurs, as this web page talks about above all, but also employees. Who's gonna pay these people for this day off? How will they react when they see smaller drafts on the belt and above all on the account? What happens when they react? You have to think, ladies and gentlemen, about something like this. Why don't you worry about that, ladies and gentlemen, for example. a factory located in Tychy, which has an extraterritorial status in Poland, forces employees to come to work on Saturdays? Why don't you worry about it, and you're giving me one day off on Monday and one day off? It's just a really thoughtless project. Mr Meysztowicz said: think. Just don't think. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u432	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club. The electoral disaster must be resolved, Mr. President. [[But yours? Yours?]] No, yours, yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 100th anniversary of regaining independence is a great national holiday and it is certainly worth celebrating it well, but not in such a conflicting way, so badly prepared and, I would say, without any such responsibility for the effects of accepting another day off from the number of days we already have. Many countries this year celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence or gaining independence at all. Somehow I didn't hear that there were extra days off from work. So here are the questions: Did you count exactly how much it would cost? Which is what's gonna happen to the courts, the hospitals, the various services, the universities, etc., etc.? It's the life that's going on. It's the kind of thing that should be properly prepared. Maybe it's more of a holiday, I don't know, honored, but without a day off from work. There could be, I don't know, meetings, demonstrations, concerts, but let's not do it that day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] free of work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u434	The representative of the applicants, Mrs Elżbieta Raven, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, these questions were a continuation of club speeches, so I find it difficult to discuss with them. However, I will really share the concern about one thing, that is, the planned operations, the doctor's visits, and here I will inform you that the Law and Justice Club has tabled an amendment to this law, which... [[It's okay to operate.]] Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u436	But, Commissioner, please don't argue with the room, just make...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u437	...which will make the bill not cover hospitals and outpatients. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: Who's going to pay for this?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: What about courts, courts?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u438	Thank you very much. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to join the second reading without delay. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 22. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 18 hours 22 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted an opinion on the candidate for the Ombudsman. The opinion is in print 2946. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the Article clause. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 (2) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the review of item 1 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws. Additional report... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Some Members chant: Rafał! Raphael! Raphael!]] Don't make any noise. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Fame, how's the second round? Oh, you're not, sorry.]] [[Voice from the room: Ask what's the second round.]] The additional committee report shall be in print No 2918-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Order Act and some other laws, print No 2860. At its 70th meeting on 23 October 2018, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law, contained in print No 2918, to the Committee on Public Finance in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. 24 amendments were tabled. The Committee on Public Finances, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 23 October 2018, rejected 7 amendments and adopted 17 amendments. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm amends 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 13. rejected and the others, i.e. Four, six, eight, ten to twelve, and 14 to twenty-four, he agreed to accept. At the same time, I should like to inform you that amendment 11 in the additional report concerns Article. Point 29 and not Article 2. 2 point 30, as misspelled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u440	Thank you, Member. The amendments presented in the report will be voted first. In the 1st amendment, the applicant proposes that the title of the Act be amended to amend the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws. Amendment 13 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 14 to 22. The question is asked by Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u441	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to ask if Patrick How does he know that the first train to Opole is tomorrow at an hour? 6.33. But no one's waiting for you there. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You're so flashy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u442	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 159 voted against - 220, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 2 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act. In the second amendment to the article. 30da applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 188 voted against - 219, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 30da applicants propose to add paragraph. 13a. Amendments 5 and 8 join with it. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 6. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3, 5 and 8, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 123 against - 268, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 30da paragraph. 14 applicants propose a new wording of the first sentence. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 290, against 125, with five abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 30de. 4, 5 and 6 and the addition of paragraph 6. 5a. Amendment 11 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 6 and 11, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 380, against - 14, 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 30df. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 172 votes against, 226 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 30f paragraph. The applicant shall propose the new wording of point 4 of point 2. b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 385, against - 12, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 10 to 12 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 maintain the existing wording of point. d. This amendment is combined with the 23rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 10 and 23, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 386, against - 14, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 12th amendment to the article. 26b applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 385 against - 12, 27 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 14 to 20 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Tax Ordination Act. In the 14th amendment to the article. 58b applicants propose e.g. new wording § 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 379, against - 17, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 86a § 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about reporting tax schemes. There are so many schematics. When it comes to, for example, for a simple scheme, that is to say, joint checking by spouses, are we really going to come up with the absurdity in which tax advisers will have to report this type of tax scheme, simple and obvious, and will it not block tax administrations if they receive hundreds or thousands of such reports? So, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to consider and to take into account the amendments made by the House of Tax Advisors, which will certainly be tabled at the stage of the Senate's work, because we have passed through the Sejm as lightning, and I hope that the Senate will reflect, especially on the part of the governments, that these amendments will be taken into account because they are simply rational. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u444	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 385, against - 14, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 86f applicants propose e.g. new wording § Point 1 (9). The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 389 against - 11, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 86g applicants propose a new wording § 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 383, against - 12, 27 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 86l applicants propose a new wording § 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 385 against - 14, 26 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 119d. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 385, against - 15, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 119zb applicants propose a new wording § 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 385, against - 14, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. The 30th Law amending the applicant proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 382 against - 13, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 33 The amending act shall propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 22nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 384, against - 14, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The amending act proposes a new wording of point 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 24th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 389 against - 13, 26 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Now the whole thing. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 2918, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 371 voted against - 44, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the occasion of the 100th National Festival. The Independence Reclaim Anniversary. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to the committee. I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm decided to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill without referring to the committee. The question is raised by Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice before the second round of elections wants to force their voters to be happy by offering them a day off from work. Cost of that day - 6,5 billion PLN. You used to spend not your money, but why should Poles and Polish entrepreneurs pay such a price for your fanaber? For all this it is so absurd to celebrate the feast of November 11 on another day of the year that with equal success... [[Applause]] To be honest, I'm surprised you didn't come up with the idea of celebrating it on the birthday of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] This is an equally absurd idea. Therefore, consider whether this date has not yet been changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u446	Mr Richard Petru, near the Liberal and Social Committee, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants: Is this a rural wedding that is supposed to last a week? Ladies and gentlemen, how much does one day off cost the economy? [[Voice from the room: A lot.]] Seven billion. The question is: Who will pay people who will not work that day? It will be a loss of 240 PLN a day or 300 PLN in case of an employer. Here's another thing. Do you know how many working days Poland has? We're 13. How many English have they got? - 8, Germany - 8, French - 11. [[The Germans are 14.]] We have the most of all days off from work. [[Voice from the hall: And we have a feast of six kings.]] Here's the question. Is there a country in the world that builds its wealth by celebrating? Or maybe working? There's also a question. Ladies and gentlemen, why so much nonchalance in spending taxpayers' money? Today was a debate about the fact that you are introducing a solidarity tribute because there is no money for the disabled, but there is money for partying. I ask you to reject this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u448	Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz,15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that I am in a difficult situation, for I am here as a Member, a deep conviction of the patriot and at the same time an employer. I'm so glad that Law and Justice are so darts, I'm just asking who's gonna pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not talking about a payment that you're gonna pull out of your pocket and pay all those who are free, we're talking about employers who have to make money first to pay their employees for your generous gesture. That's one thing. Secondly, I wanted to ask you, what kind of party are you guys having at 11 that you're getting 12 fixed up? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u450	Member Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, two words to Mr Petru. You have to realize that, for example. Germany is a federal country. There, the holidays are divided into lands. You are completely missing the truth about these days off when it comes to Germany. About the point. In principle, it is not a bad idea if it is actually included in the context of a celebration, if it is really carefully planned. However, doing this 2, 3 weeks before, introducing a day off in companies, but also in health care, where operations are planned, treatments, is simply not serious. It only proves that the state wasted time preparing for the Independence Day and now they're fast-necked, patched and inventing fast. It's not serious. This is not an action that corresponds to the rank of 100 years of independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u452	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2931, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 98 against - 238, with 83 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore decided to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft law without referring to the committee. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. There are reports. I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Applause]] [[Objection. Ten seconds.]] There's an objection, right? Ten seconds, there's an offer. [[Voice from the room: That's 15 seconds.]] No, let's not overreact, ladies and gentlemen. I understand this is a joke. [[But there's an offer.]] There's an objection for two minutes. Then we'll vote those two minutes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of us listening to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the debate, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 248 against - 137, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. Ms Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will be the first to speak. Of course, I'm opening a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During my first reading, I said that 11 November 2018 was a special day. It should be celebrated in a special way. It's a celebration of all Poles. Therefore, it was necessary to prepare a beautiful symbolism addressed to each Pole. After all, millions of zlotys have been secured in the Prime Minister's and President's budget for this purpose. Where's the money? The establishment of November 12th is motivated by the fact that this is an additional day which will allow the compatriots to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. I do not understand why this anniversary cannot be celebrated on the day on which it falls. Once again, this bill is another legal piece of paper written on the knee and in a reckless way. By introducing an extra day off work in such a short period of time, you fund chaos, you also fund huge costs for employers and a drop in turnover for companies. If you want to prolong the celebration, you should have thought about it a year ago so that everyone could get ready. Everything indicates that this bill, prepared on your knees, you want to cover a far-off outcome in the election of October 21st. But it's like you guys -- the way you make the law, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do it, the way you do For three years of your reign, you have effectively divided the Poles. If you are talking about a worthy celebration of this beautiful anniversary, do something to build unity among Poles for the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Let everyone celebrate with dignity, do not destabilize the lives of Poles. The applicant shall respond to the requests made during the discussion that hospitals and outpatients will work. So I go on to ask: What about babysitting that won't go to school on November 12 and their parents will be in hospitals and outpatients? Should an extra day off work be the only symbolism on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence? This bill divides and sorts. It's a holiday bill. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will not support the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u454	Thank you. Mr Piotr Babinetz of Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present amendments to the parliamentary draft law on the occasion of the 100th National Festival. The Independence Reclaim Anniversary. Amendment 1 is an amendment concerning the title of the Act to be read as follows: The establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. Amendment 2 is an amendment to the preamble to read: "To celebrate and commemorate the great day for the Polish Nation of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland on 11 November 2018, the following is hereby stated. These amendments are proposed for the joint vote. [[But you didn't do anything.]] Finally, Amendment 3 - after Article. 3 add Article. 3a as follows: Article. 3a. The provision of healthcare in hospitals and the provision of healthcare in outpatient healthcare provided under the Act of 27 August 2004 on the provision of health care financed by public funds to be granted on 12 November 2018 during the time of their delivery by the provider who has concluded a health care contract shall be granted on 12 November 2018 in accordance with the order of notification scheduled for that date. And lips. 2: Public pharmacy, which according to the resolution of the district council referred to in Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Law of 6 September 2001. The pharmaceutical law is required to ensure the availability of benefits in the county on days off from work and ensures this availability also on 12 November 2018. Of course, this is about securing the health and life of Poles. On the other hand, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am applying for the third reading of the draft National Day Act on the occasion of 100. Anniversary of the Recovery of Independence without reference to the committee of amendments and proposals submitted to this draft law. In addition, I ask for a total vote on Amendments 1 and 2. Let me remind you that this is a reference to the establishment in 1919 by Chief of State of Józef Piłsudski of a one-day job-free day [[♪ The bell ♪]] convening, holding the first sitting of the Legislative Sejm. It is a one-time work-free day to celebrate the 100th anniversary of our homeland's Independence Day. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[But the 11th is a holiday!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u456	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an insult to the memory of those who fought for Polish independence. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, why don't you listen to what you're saying? [[We're listening.]] I'd like to see that. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] This is an insult to the memory of those who fought for Polish independence, that we as the Sejm, or actually the ruling party frimarizes their memory, frimarizes their work. It's insulting. Ladies and gentlemen, have you read the bill? There's a record in this project, and now it's a little expanded that you'll be able to trade on this day. You can't work, but you can trade. It's just a little bit biblical. It's a shame you're shutting out the other days, and on that day you're allowing it. There was a film in which such a secular tradition was established. You guys follow that lead. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u458	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u459	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that you are now making amendments to this bill shows that it is simply a total screw-up. You can't make even the simplest bill without making it better. I wouldn't be surprised if there was an amendment to this bill tomorrow... [[But we haven't approved it yet.]] ...because you're just capable of it. You divide the Poles into those who will work that day and those who will be free. You banned trade on Sundays, and now you're sending people to shopping malls during the holidays because trade has been excluded from this bill. Where is your consequence in this action? Why do you want to make people not only not... There is a complex amendment to health care, but businesses must stop production, the goods cannot leave on that day. All business meetings need to be canceled. And what happens to the trials that have been decided on this day? The deadlines will be postponed again and people will wait a few months. The question is: Are you really planning to unveil another monument in Warsaw on November 12th? We have heard that on that day there will be a ceremony in Piłsudski Square connected with the unveiling of another monument. Isn't that why you're taking the day off so we all have to celebrate on this day? If you want to celebrate this day, I propose to invite the former presidents, President Wałęsa, President Kwasniewski and President Komorowski to this ceremony. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u460	Thank you. The Kukiz Club has a minute left. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, is reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the sitting be adjourned until 10 November. I think it's too much of a rush with this free day bill. What if somebody comes up with a week off or a month off? Let's think about this calmly. I think that November 10 will be the most appropriate moment to inform Poles that they will not go to a court hearing, that maybe they will not go to a doctor either, that they will not go to work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u462	A request for deferral has been filed. It's a request for a deferral, i.e. Article 2 Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1). There's a formal request for a deferral, sir, so we'll proceed with the vote. I am putting this motion to the vote. Who among you is in favour of adjourning the sitting until 10 November, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 153, against - 232, with 38 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Thank you, sir. Members Jakubiak and Święcicki asked questions. I'm closing the list. Here you go, after one minute for the Members. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this brief statement, I would like to ask, perhaps we could somehow influence the Law and Justice so that we can leave something behind from this 100th anniversary. On November 10, 1918, Marshal Piłsudski got out at the Main Station. Although Mrs Gronkiewicz-Waltz didn't know where this station was, perhaps the President of Warsaw will find out, refurbished it... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Congratulations on the score.]] What are they saying? What language do they speak? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: German.]] So I would ask the High House to take it easy now because we're talking about the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Why don't we do something like this so they can have it next generation? So, I suppose this one day, in addition to November 12, does not know why, neither improves or settles anything, does not even improve your well-being. So I think it's a shot to the knee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u464	Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform. [[What does the Communist have to say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The celebration of 100 years of regaining independence is extremely important and worth celebrating in a solemn manner. It is worth it for all of us to get around it in a way that is truly commemorative. But introducing a day off from work 3 weeks before - or even less than 3 weeks before - causes a lot of different turbulence. I wanted to say that we have a lot of holidays, which are not days off from work and this day, November 12th, can be a working day and at the same time a solemn day. [[July 22nd.]] There will be flags, there will be concerts, there will be monuments, there will be a small celebration at work and a celebration of this day. You can really celebrate this day very solemnly and dignifiedly, without officially taking a day off and imposing it on all employers, various institutions, without complicate their lives. It'll bring more damage and confusion than benefits. Let's do this day - I appeal to the applicants - on Christmas day, let's celebrate it everywhere, but let's not do it on a compulsory day off from work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u466	Thank you, sir. It is all Members who have been put to the vote. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading of the bill after serving to the ladies and gentlemen a list of the amendments tabled during the discussion. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm's offer... [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] [[To the committee!]] There's an objection. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal to move to third reading after delivering the table of amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 236 against 186. The Sejm accepted the offer. The third reading will be carried out at the end of the voting block. We return to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 2896-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws, print No 2854. The Sejm at its 70th meeting on 23 October 2018 in accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2896 to the Committee on Public Finance to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. Seven amendments were tabled, two of which received a positive opinion from the Committee on Public Finance and five were rejected. I ask the High House to adopt a bill in this form.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u468	Thank you, sir. The amendments tabled in the additional report will be voted first. Let me remind you, it's printing number 2896. In amendments 1, 3, 6 and 7, applicants propose, inter alia, to delete the provisions relating to lease, lease, lease and other similar contracts relating to a passenger car. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 2 and 4. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The strategy for responsible development refers to the fact that the tax system in Poland should, first, be friendly and, secondly, transparent and simple. Here we have an exemplification of what it looks like in practice, how such friendly costs reflect on the pockets of Polish taxpayers. This applies to entrepreneurs who are imposed on a flat-rate basis for the use of cars in business. This friendly gesture of PiS costs Polish entrepreneurs PLN 93 million. This is the case with the friendly gestures from the PiS and the implementation of the scheme under which the tax system should be simple, transparent and friendly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u470	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 3, 6, and 7, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 192 voted against - 221, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 24 Act on personal income tax add paragraph. 2b. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 16 of the Corporate Income Tax Act add paragraph. 5j. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 384, against - 12, 27 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 4a including amendments to the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 201 voted against - 216, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Vote on the whole thing. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment, we will also proceed on two other bill projects, which Law and Justice raises taxes. I say: also, because if this law provides for a reduction in the tax rate, it is necessary to consider whether this is really a tax reduction if the result of this reduction is to increase the budgetary revenue. That's one thing. [[Applause]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, you have already reduced CIT once to 15%. Even then, we pointed out that this CIT is not being paid by anybody. If no one's paying him, now you're lowering him to 9%. You could have reduced it to 0%, because there's still so little anyone who pays this CIT, because in most cases companies with commercial law, the smallest income, their owners or employees account for PIT, dear country. So that you mark the tax reduction, but tomorrow we'll probably read in the newspapers and hear on TV that Law and Justice have reduced taxes. Too bad you're not talking about raising taxes, for example. a solidarity tribute or so-called. The Self-Government Road Fund, which we're about to discuss. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u472	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u473	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that this project is indeed part of such a broader legal and justice strategy. This strategy can be called a 3P strategy, but it is not a 3P strategy that you described in the explanatory memorandum of this law. This strategy is called raising taxes for Poles. Law and Justice have raised taxes on Poles several dozen times over these three years. This is probably the 37th tax, which Law and Justice go deeper into the pockets of Poles. I must say that it is frightening that the state will take about 93 million PLN out of taxpayers' pockets and introduce further tightenings on documentation. Employees who count down the rates per kilometer, that is one thing, one area, a problem, and the very serious problem is what this law is about, i.e. driving costs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] business activities. Unfortunately, this is another hit...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u474	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u475	...in Polish entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] [[Mostly small, mostly small.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u476	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2896 as a whole, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 358 voted against - 52, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons. The additional report was served in print No 2895-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present the additional report of the committee in print No 2895-A. Five amendments were tabled during the second reading. At its meeting on 23 October, the Commission adopted a negative opinion on these amendments, which went beyond the scope of the Government's submission. Please accept this report. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u478	Thank you. Let's move on to the vote. I'm reminding you, it's printing number 2895. The amendments that have been tabled in the additional report will be voted first. In amendments 1 to 5, applicants propose that, inter alia, amend the title of the Act and delete the article. 4.37. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u479	High Seym! One third of the revenues of this new fund are to be contributions paid by all employees from remuneration received. Normally, this money should reach the Labour Fund and it is known what it should be allocated to the Labour Fund. However, instead of going to the Labour Fund, they go to a fund about which an expert at the Sejm Analysis Office writes that it creates unclear rules and threatens to treat people with disabilities unevenly. Did such removal of almost PLN 0.5 billion from the Labour Fund gain acceptance of trade unions and employers' representatives? Why should this money, instead of serving the labour market, serve a completely vague purpose, very vaguely and intricately defined by this law? I ask for a clear answer as to whether trade unions and employers support such [[♪ The bell ♪]] the solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u480	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is essentially about systemic issues. Why are we doing another breach in principle of the unity of the state budget? Why do we support something that once law and justice - as they claimed, at least with the mouth of their president - wanted to fight, is about resorting Poland? We are currently building another element, another brick of Polish Ministry. We are raising some money and they will be at the disposal of a specific minister - not in the budget, only a specific minister will be taking care of it. Really, Poland should be a single country in budgetary terms, not divided into individual departments, most often fighting against each other. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u482	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 167 votes against - 226 and 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The whole thing. The question is asked by Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u483	High Seym! The debate on this project has repeatedly pointed out that it is not really clear to whom, in what mode and for what purpose this money is intended to reach. On the other hand, it is certainly known that this law introduces additional bureaucracy, additional costs for employers, for ZUS, for tax offices. This is not our subjective assessment, this is the opinion expressed by an expert at the Sejm Analysis Office, and the assessment that this will result in an increase in bureaucracy is in the justification of the law. So to whom is this more than PLN 1.5 billion to go? Why doesn't this money go to the Disabled Persons Rehabilitation Fund, where there's a clear organisation, clear procedures and clear control? [[He's another minister.]] Oh, yeah. In view of these numerous doubts, the Civic Platform Club cannot support this project. [[Applause]] [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u484	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, an appeal for an answer to Mr Piechota's questions. [[He's already had three answers on the committee.]] And in the second place, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to people with disabilities, the characteristic and essence of the honour of the Polish state and the authorities of the Polish state is to ensure a worthy existence in our homeland for people with disabilities. That's it. On the other hand, with regard to the creation of new taxes, the state is trying to attract about PLN 1 billion and allocate, as it turns out, no one knows for what - whether for the disabled or for bureaucracy. Meanwhile, labour offices have an increasing problem with the justification of their existence. Ladies and gentlemen! If you remove the labour offices or restructure them very strongly, and spend about PLN 4 billion a year on them, you could spend at least three times what you want to allocate from this solidarity tribute to people with disabilities. But it requires restructuring, and you just want to go through tax increases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u486	Thank you. Mr Stępień, President of the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the governing party how you intend to patch the hole that will arise after the reduction in the contribution to the Labour Fund in 2019. Do you think the fight against unemployment is pointless? [[Yes. There's no unemployment.]] And I would also like to know your attitude towards the Labour Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u488	Thank you. At the moment, I would like the floor of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michalkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill on which we are proceeding was, of course, widely consulted and consulted with the social partners, trade unions and employers. Of course, these consultations were carried out. On the other hand, I wanted to say that all those who vote in favour of the Solidarity Fund today will vote for people with disabilities to be supported through a number of programmes: programmes that will implement the "Availability+" Act, assisted employment law, respite care, health support, many programmes that people with disabilities are waiting for. I have the great pleasure of telling all people with disabilities: from 1 January the Solidarity Fund will support and finance a number of programmes that will support people with disabilities. Thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u490	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2895 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 244, against - 65, with 113 abstentions. The Seym passed a bill. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the Fund for Roads of Local Government. Third reading. This is print number 2898-A. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour, pleasure and joy to present to you an additional report from the committee, because this morning the Sejm, at second reading, discussed the project on the Fund for Roads and sent the project to the committee. The Commission examined this proposal in the evening as 20 amendments were tabled at second reading. I would like to say that on behalf of the Joint Committees, I recommend adopting one amendment and rejecting 19 amendments. 19 amendments are proposed simply because, as I understand, they have been tabled so that the fund does not exist. In fact, the purpose of the fund was to provide funds to municipalities and powiats, i.e. to those who manage municipal and district roads. [[What, there's not that kind of money in the budget?]] In particular, the fund is intended for those municipalities and powiats with the lowest income. So if we adopt this bill, if the High House accepts the functioning of the Self-Government Road Fund, next year 6 billion PLN will go to municipalities and districts. And there will be no problem with the construction of roads and pavements [[Applause]] and this will have a very significant impact on improving safety in municipalities and powiats. That is why we propose to reject 19 amendments that simply led to the Fund not being there and one being accepted, because it is very good, very important and very necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u492	Thank you. Let me remind you, this is about the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2898. The committees are asking for this project to be adopted. They present in an additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give the law a new title. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15. [[Mr. Marshal, no, no, thank you.]] [[Not anymore, Marshal.]] Please. Member Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice have no reason to like big cities. You have lost local elections in Warsaw, Łódź, Poznań, Wrocław and many others. [[Applause]] [[And you're in Poland.]] [[And you lost in Poland.]] In this act, you propose discriminatory solutions to large cities, you exclude these cities from accessing funds for local government roads. Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 7 provides that they will not be able to benefit from support from the Self-Government Road Fund, because that is where the headquarters of the voivodships are located, the seat of the voivodships. But cities are mostly people. And the question is: Why do you discriminate against the inhabitants of large, proud Polish cities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u494	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I must say that we have heard an absolutely outrageous report by the President of the Committee on Infrastructure, who has allowed himself to evaluate the substantive amendments of the opposition. I must say, Mr President, Mr President, that this furious attack on our substantive amendments, which concern the most important issues that cause the funds to be shared in a substantive and transparent manner, and not in a non-transparent and obscuring way, as is the case in your project, those amendments that eliminate discrimination against many large cities in Poland are the sole thing in your eye. I am very glad that this attack took place because Poles have the right to know that in fact this bill is money for their own. Another PLN 6 billion, which will be spent from the state budget in a non-transparent way, for its own, in an absolutely non-democratic way. And we're gonna show it to you tonight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u496	Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It was the previous government, the government of Platform and PSL for 8 years that showed its approach to local Poland, to municipal Poland and to county Poland... [[Eastern Poland.]] ...excluding and discriminate against smaller towns and cities from access to EU funds. Two examples: Eastern Poland Operational Programme... [[Have you ever heard of sketches?]] [[Did you hear about the ferry?]] ...which can only be used by voivodship cities and smaller municipalities, smaller powiats, smaller towns - no. Further operational programmes of individual voivodships are also dedicated only and exclusively to road investments, capitals of these voivodships. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Don't yell.]] That is why we are introducing a solution that guarantees access to government resources for smaller municipalities, smaller cities. [[Why are you lying, sir?]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is the truth, and you will not drown it out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit, bullshit.]] [[Just watch where the money is spent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u498	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 174 voted against - 246 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. It's connected to the third amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 165 Members voted against - 241, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 3. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. There have been 5 abstentions in favour, 261 against - 153. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 4 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 7. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that with the provisions of this law, at least some, the PiS is beginning to implement its electoral promises. PiS politicians drove all over Poland and said: If you do not choose us, we will cut off the money, there will be no money. And they're cutting it off. [[You're lying.]] They eliminate cities on the rights of the county, which are the seat of the Marshal and the voivodeship, where the Civic Platform won, where the pro-democratic mayors, presidents, city bountyers won. I have the impression that the Prime Minister is also taking revenge on the Lubuskie voivodeship by which he had to pay, apologize for lying in election mode, because he came to Świebodzin, announced that we were not building roads. We were building roads. He said the roads would be built. They won't. It eliminates two capitals of Lubuskie Voivodeship: Gorzów and Zielona Góra. This is unacceptable. Support our amendment because it will provide an equivalent approach to all cities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u500	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u501	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Minister Brudziński! I would like to ask why in this bill you want to deprive cities such as: Szczecin, my city, Wrocław, Białystok, Poznań, Koszalin of money for renovation and modernisation of roads. Is this, Mr. President, such a quick revenge for failure in the cities? This is not how democracy should work. I know you have plenty, lots of intentions. In Szczecin, a former member of the Civic Platform, Piotr Krzysztek, will win, whom I wish he would be president, and I hope that we will rule together in the Seym. And you, Mr. President, please don't take revenge on the people of these beautiful cities...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u502	Mr President, let me get this straight, because you are out of line.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u503	...by taking their money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u504	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 171, against - 228, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 5. Amendments 9, 10, 12, 19 and 20 are connected to it. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask if it is true that Poles pay around 60% for fuel prices today. taxes. I think that's true, because even the president of the group who filed this bill, Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński, at one time showed a big can, where it said that 60% fuel prices are taxes. But that wasn't enough for you. Over the last three years, you've been able to raise your taxes at the price of fuel. And it is not enough that Poles pay very high taxes at the price of fuel, yet you want to train the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management from the resources that were intended to be used for environmental protection, the MON budget that was intended to be used for weapons, technical modernisation of the army, and many other funds, while fuel prices taxes remain the same. We absolutely don't agree to that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The roads should be built from these funds...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u506	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u507	...which are collected at the price of fuel under taxation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u508	We'll proceed with the vote. If you are in favour of amendments 6, 9, 10, 12, 19 and 20, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 167 votes against - 233, 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. It's connected to the 18th Amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u509	Is it true that this point, which we want to delete in this amendment, concerns the re-training of the MON budget, of the amount of PLN 500 million which was intended to be used for the technical modernisation of the army? And that's just the way it is that you don't succeed in armaments projects, you're going to have another failure in the next military armament proceedings. Instead of allocating funds to increase the combat capabilities of the Polish Army, these funds go to build police commands, for some indeterminate purchases in other laws. In this bill you want to train the MON budget for another 500 million PLN. 500 million PLN, which would significantly improve the combat capabilities of the Polish Army, will go in the sand, will go into concrete, will go into asphalt. And that is the truth about your approach to defence of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u510	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allies of NATO Law and Justice says: we spend 2% GDP per Polish army. What are the facts? You're buying VIP planes, and now you've prepared an outrageous bill that predicts 0.5 billion from the MON budget to build local roads. [[Don't scream.]] This is an outrage. Where are the helicopters, where are the drones, where are the modern battle trucks and tanks? You want to pull the T-72 out of the bushes and bring it back into service, and the 0.5 billion that could be used for modern equipment, you want to turn it into asphalt and concrete. It's a disgrace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u512	Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Former, fortunately former, Minister of Infrastructure talks about such a serious topic as support for Polish local governments, the topic of construction of local roads: asphalt, concrete, sand. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the approach of the former Minister of Infrastructure to such a strategic topic. [[Let it go, sir.]] At the time, you weren't referring to anything other than synekuras, not building roads when it comes to Polish local governments. On the other hand, in terms of modernization of the Polish army, ladies and gentlemen, 8 years of your government is over PLN 12 billion of unused budget resources for modernization of the Polish army. [[Sit down, don't murder yourself, don't embarrass yourself. Three years you've been in charge, three years.]] You had time for all the groceries you're talking about right now. You didn't use that time. Shame. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[He's so young, he's lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u514	As corrected by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The former Minister of Infrastructure knows the data well. 15,000. km of local roads, so-called. Schetynówki was established during the reign of the Platform and the Polish People's Party, including 1000 km on green ground, where there were no transport routes before. We spent 5400 million to do this, but the local governments have paid the other amount. The total amount allocated to local roads, concrete and asphalt, was over 11 billion. In addition, we spent 134 billion from the budget, from the National Road Fund to national roads, to motorways and expressways. This is the truth about Polish roads. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u516	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 7 and 18, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 164 voted against - 237, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to delete point 5. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has already been said today that you have introduced 37 new taxes. In this bill, you enter 38. In addition, 7.5% The net profit of single-member companies of the State Treasury will be paid to the Fund for Roads of Local Government. This one amendment of the PiS concerned Polish Power Grids with a profit of 7.5%, i.e. approx. PLN 50 million, should fund the Self-Government Road Fund. Here I have a report of Polish Electricity Networks, which in 2016 have a profit of over PLN 700 million. If they'd paid 7.5% for it. , it would be about PLN 45.50 million. Why would you want to erase the money and take it from Krynica-Żegiestów Spa, Rabka Spa, Wieliczka Salt Mine, Bochnia Salt Mine? Such entities are single-member companies of the Treasury. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u518	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 175 votes against - 226 and 19 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 9 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 3 and add paragraph. 3a. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You want to make almost PLN 6 billion per year 5% He had the head of government at his disposal. That money might come in handy. But why? That's because we have a breakdown in the construction market. Because we have inflation, fuel prices, energy prices are rising, bituminous masses and concrete masses are rising. Today we have the phenomenon that in tenders we get higher offers in terms of prices than investor costs. In such a situation, the mayors must cancel the tender procedure. We propose to increase this amount by 5% up to 10% in order to fill in any price increase, so as not to cancel tenders, but to settle them to the end. This is a lifeline for you. Support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u520	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 190 votes against - 228, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 20 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 232, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 3 applicants propose to reword point 2. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 234, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 25. It's connected to the 16th Amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! This is something unprecedented so far in the legislative process: extraordinary powers for the Prime Minister, who can throw all the work carried out in the voivodship offices into the basket - all evaluated applications can be sent, thrown into the basket - and make a completely new list. He'll give the money to whoever he wants. I am surprised that this right was given to him and not to the President, but we know that this project, these two articles, were entered in this law at the express request of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Because as we've heard on not so long ago published tapes, that's what he says: that's what I'm gonna give 50, that's 70, that's 100,000. [[Applause]] In this case, he will be able to divide millions and even tens of millions. He'll just be able to pay attention... [[Voice from the room: Billions.]] ...give away to anyone he thinks is appropriate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u522	We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 15 and 16, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 170 voted against - 233, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 17th amendment to the article. 30 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 2. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 164 voted against - 235, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, it can't be that in the Seym there's money being pushed for their own, because it's not a private state of one political party. It cannot be that the Prime Minister decides for one person to spend 6 billion PLN, because it is not the private country of the Prime Minister. It cannot be that funds are drained to protect the environment, technical modernisation of the army, drainage of companies of the Treasury, drainage of mining rescue or debt of subsequent generations only so that the Prime Minister can distribute PLN 6 billion. Well, that's irresponsible. It can't be that some Polish people are discriminated against just because they don't live in those districts where PiS wins. This is a ridiculous policy, this is a ridiculous law and such a law, a private law cannot be supported. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u524	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u525	The information given by me on 15 September 2018 during the election rally of the Election Committee of Law and Justice in Świebodzin is incorrect, that within 1 to 1.5 years we spend more money on local roads than during the coalition of PO and PSL within 8 years. Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] The truth about this bill is that it wouldn't be if the Prime Minister hadn't had to straighten up the lie during the election campaign. [[Applause]] And you want to push a bill that has uncertain sources of funding that will limit the possibility of fighting smog and which you're spending 1,400 million on a national environmental fund. You want to tell us that this project will be better than the project prepared by the Platform, which created 14 800 km of Schetynówki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u526	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour... I'm sorry, I didn't notice. [[The vote is on.]] Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk has the floor. There you go. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u527	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A second reading of the draft law on the Fund for Local Roads took place today before noon. There was a discussion in this Chamber, also as hot and colourful as it was just a moment ago, and many accusations were made against the applicants, the Government of the Republic of Poland. I was impressed - and I tried clearly, clearly, to answer all the questions in a clear way - that you have approached these explanations with an understanding of the Members of the opposition. However, it turns out that the Self-Government Road Fund, which local governments are waiting for throughout Poland, is another instrument for political struggle, because everything you said before noon, now you repeat exactly. It wasn't enough to explain to you that in the article. 26 are clearly defined competences of the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, in relation to the projects to be presented by the voivods. It is not enough that we have explained very clearly and clearly how much money, how much money was spent from the general subsidy reserve for voivodship cities, you are constantly saying that we took the voivodship cities where the Civic Platform won. I have a question: How much did the Civic Platform give to the voivodships? [[Applause]] Can you say that? You guys can't do it, 'cause in all of eight years, it's maybe... [[70%.]] ...about 150 million, maybe 200 million PLN. Because the general subsidy reserve has been earmarked since 2008 primarily for renovation... [[Two billion six hundred.]] ...modernization of bridges on county roads, on voivodship roads. Therefore, all these accusations are false accusations. [[Two billion.]] The Self-Government Roads Fund, we are convinced of this, will change the state of local roads in Poland, above all it will improve their safety. This is what ordinary Poles are waiting for. [[You shouldn't have taken that away from them.]] Don't disturb us, please. I hope that you will support this project, which is expected by all, whether they support the ruling camp - Law and Justice, the United Right, or the environments associated with the total opposition. People are waiting, waiting for safe roads. [[You shouldn't have taken it.]] Do not disturb us when we want to bring about a high technical state of safety on local roads. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[3 years, 3 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u528	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2898 in its entirety, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 254 against - 51, with 121 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the Self-Government Road Fund. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government bill amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2881. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2881 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 418 voted against - 5, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft bill on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. Third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft be adopted in print No 2923. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2923 as a whole, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 419 against 4 and no one abstained. The Sejm passed a bill on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and public-private partnerships. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2927. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u529	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the Law on agricultural insurance in the field of drought should be amended because very few farmers are insured. I have questions for the Minister of Agriculture. How many farmers are currently insured from drought disasters, and what is the cost of buying out such a policy? What will this bill change, so how much will it cost to buy out such policies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u530	Where's the minister? [[There's the minister.]] Krzysztof Ardanowski, Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I think that all these questions have been answered, but I would like to say to you that companies, insurance companies, which are also currently insurance for agriculture, as fire is afraid of drought insurance. I think it's pretty obvious that they're afraid of the great losses involved, they're afraid they're going to go bankrupt if they're going to cover agriculture, mostly these drought insurances. That is why we want to improve this, to make this system a little more flexible, to which you pay hundreds of millions of zlotys. This is strong support for insurance adopted by the law from many years ago, which guarantees a payment of 65% to the contribution paid by farmers. Therefore, in this law we allow package insurance against all risks, including selected individual risks, including droughts. The issue concerns the so-called. reduction franchises, i.e. the liability of the insured person. She normally, at all risks except drought, is 10%. to reduce the payout by this own risk, while this law gives us the opportunity to... This question by Mr Sachajka is justified whether this will facilitate the conclusion of agreements by farmers to increase franchise by 20, 25, 30%. I am convinced that this will make both insurance companies more likely to insure farmers with this huge state aid, as well as those farmers who manage in areas that may be potentially exposed to drought, will have a greater opportunity to conclude contracts. Over 20% of farmers are being insured at the moment. This is far too little, hence such great pressure on public aid, especially for uninsured farms. So this law, I think, makes it very flexible for farmers, because it is done for them, and it also gives a real basis for insurance companies to finally want to provide insurance for farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u532	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2927 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 262 voted against - 154, 9 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on agricultural insurance and livestock. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. The additional report shall be in print 2932-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u533	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to present an additional report by the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, print No 2919. The project concerns an increase in the funding limit for 75+ medicines by PLN 50 million. In 2018, this limit was 643 300 thousand. PLN and in 10 years it will amount to 8 274 600 thousand. zł. The functioning of the 75+ programme is the implementation of the State's commitments to older people in the field of health protection. At the 70th meeting of the Sejm on 23 October, he re-directed the draft law in print No 2932 to the Committee on Health in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting the amendments and adopting the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u534	Please. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. In Amendments 1 and 2, applicants propose to amend the title of the Act and to add an article. 1a and Article 1a 1b. We will vote on them together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 169 voted against - 249, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Now the whole thing. No questions. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2919 in its entirety, please carry your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 415, against - 1 and abstained 3. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We would like to refer to item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia. This is print number 2925. The Commission proposes that this resolution be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print resolution 2925 in its entirety, please carry your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 396 against - 3 and 16 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the aggression of the Russian Federation in Georgia. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Appointment of an Ombudsman for the rights of the child (prints 2899 and 2946). High Seym! According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Act on the Advocate for the Rights of the Child, the Sejm shall appoint an Advocate for the Rights of the Child with the consent of the Senate. Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska has been submitted to the position of the Ombudsman. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak in order to present the candidacy of Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska, presented by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and to present the opinion of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u535	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to recommend Dr Agnieszka Dudzińska for the position of Child Rights Officer. Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska was born on 5 May 1965 in Lublin. She is a sociologist, a graduate of the Catholic University of Lublin. During her studies, she was a scholar of Tempus at the University of Bielefeld. Between 1974 and 1980 she was a participant and animator of the Light-Life movement, and in 1977 she was active in scouting. Since 1995 he has lived and worked in Warsaw. Since 2005, she has been employed at the Institute of Political Studies of the Polish Academy of Sciences, where she received a PhD in sociology in 2009. Its scientific interests concern political representation, legislative process, public policy-making, public institutions, as well as social research methodologies and data analysis. Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska has been working socially for people with disabilities for many years. She has worked with many NGOs. She was, among other things. President of the Warsaw Commission for Social Dialogue Disability. She initiated the creation of sheltered housing for people with disabilities in Warsaw. He is a well-known non-governmental organisation for the activities of disabled children. In 2009 she started the implementation of the non-governmental project "Everything is clear." Accessibility and quality of education for disabled pupils run by the Children's Hidden Disabilities Association. Hans Asperger's Naughty Kids. The project served as a social spokesman for disabled pupils. For her activity towards the creation of sheltered housing for disabled people in Warsaw in 2011 she was nominated for the newspaper "Gazety Stołeczna" award. She received the award of readers for activities for disabled students. Between 2013 and 2014, she served as Deputy President for Programme Affairs at the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, which resulted, among others. the establishment of a Social Consultative Council at PFRON and the commission of comprehensive studies of workshops for occupational therapy in order to learn about mechanisms blocking the entry of their participants into the labour market. The most important area of work of Dr Agnieszka Dudzińska in PFRON was participation in the programming process of expenditure from the European Union for the purpose of supporting people with disabilities, including disabled children. Dr Agnieszka Dudzińska carries out social activities in the field of public policy monitoring. He works with a number of NGOs. She was the President of the Warsaw Commission for Social Dialogue on sheltered housing and the Social Dialogue Commission on Disability. She is the author of many studies on social and educational policy, including the Lifetime Programme, the right of children with disabilities to education and how to finance educational tasks. She was a member of expert teams, among others. at the Ombudsman and at the Minister for National Education. Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska speaks three foreign languages: English, German and French. She's married, she's got three kids. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Dr. Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska is a good candidate for the Ombudsman of children's rights. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the joint opinion of the Commission in print No 2946: Education, Science and Youth and Social and Family Policy on the proposal to appoint an ombudsman for the position of a child, print No 2899. The joint committees met at their meeting on 23 October to give an opinion on the candidacy... [[And before that?]] Reported to the office of child's attorney. The request was examined during the meeting. The candidacy of Dr. Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska was presented and a discussion was held. The members of the committee listened to the candidate's answer to the questions asked. As a result of the vote, the candidate obtained the required majority of votes and thus the approval of the committee. The joint committees gave a positive opinion on Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska's candidacy for the position of the Ombudsman. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[How many times is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u536	Thank you, Member. Members have submitted to the debate, so I propose that the Sejm listen in the debate... [[Five minutes.]] No, no, there's already been a discussion... [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's not exaggerate. I propose that the Sejm listen to 1.5-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Ten seconds.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Mrs Kochan objects. Good. We vote against the opposition. [[Three minutes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an objection to 1.5-minute speeches. [[But what are you afraid of? Talking about this lady?]] I will submit a proposal for 1.5 minutes' vote. Who of you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. [[What's that?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. The vote was 233, against - 158, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u537	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the candidacy of Dr Agnieszka Dudzińska for the position of Ombudsman of the rights of the child. Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska is a doctor of sociology, a graduate of the Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's already been done.]] For many years, it has been socially active for people with disabilities. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] She is a well-known and valued person in the community of NGOs. She was a social spokesperson for disabled pupils. She has developed a lot of expertise in social policy and education. [[A voice from the room: You've read it before.]] Dr Agnieszka Dudzińska worked in expert teams with the Ombudsman and Minister of National Education. She was actively involved in creating apartments protected for people with disabilities in Warsaw. With regard to education, extensive professional experience, involvement in social activities for children and high sensitivity to their needs, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends Dr Agnieszka Dudzińska to the position of Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u538	Please. Mr Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u539	High Izbo! Dr. Dudzinska's candidacy is again the same candidacy that we discussed three weeks ago by the PiS. Dr. Agnieszka Dudzińska asks me to apologize for her opinion three weeks ago from this speaker. [[On your knees!]] According to her, that opinion was... [[Manipulation!]] [[But don't disturb me.]] ...manipulation of facts, twisting and drawing from the context of her speech. I apologize to her for quoting the interview given to the Television Republic and then placed on the Politics portal. After the words: "Abortion is the problem of children whose developmental defects were detected before birth, it is a small group. Most children who require care for the rest of their lives are children who have acquired disability either during childbirth or after childbirth, that is autism, cerebral palsy, premature pregnancies. These are very difficult things and I don't know, I probably should postulate euthanasia.I didn't add the words: 'if we can't afford to support these people.' I didn't really add those words. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[It's out of context!]] I wanted to spare myself and the High House the dramatic and tragic pronunciation of this sentence. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Some Members hit their desks and chant: Don't lie! Don't lie to me! Don't lie to me!]] During today's committee meeting, Mrs Dudzińska stated that she was an absolute opponent of euthanasia. I accept this statement with relief. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A sincere relief. But outrageously, I find that the problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u540	Thank you, Member. [[She's not done yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u541	...related to euthanasia are discussed when...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u542	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u543	...we're looking into the candidacy of a child's attorney.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u544	Thank you, Member. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Mr Kozłowski has the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u545	Words are worth weighing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u546	...Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u547	Irony and sarcasm with euthanasia towards children...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u548	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u549	...there's nothing... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u550	Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u551	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The position of the Ombudsman is a very important and high state position. A good spokesman for children's rights is able to significantly improve children's lives. Therefore, Kukiz15, being aware of this, had previously proposed to this position a person with undisputed qualifications, a pediatrician, a doctor saving children all over the world. [[Voice from the room: Nepotism!]] Then, after an unsuccessful attempt to elect an ombudsman, we proposed to establish a trans-political agreement to agree on the appointment of such an important person in the country. Unfortunately, our proposal went without an echo. You are proposing to this position a person who de facto says in his statements what everyone is comfortable with, what everyone wants to hear. You don't know what that person is thinking. Few of this, this person has an education as a sociologist, there is no job in his career that would testify to his or her awareness of working with children. Our club in the previous vote was almost convinced, in part, to vote for this candidacy, but thanks to the fact that you explained the matter to Marshal Terlecki, some of our fellow Members have found out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we don't vote for this candidacy, and we don't change our mind. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u552	Thank you. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's vote on the spokesperson for the rights of the child shows once again that the ruling party completely disregards the issue of children's rights. You are not able to find a person who will be a good spokesperson and will not be controversial to do so. There is a strong lack of action around people with disabilities or children's exploitation of children's rights. The candidate asked for measures to promote the rights of the child and their methods of protection considered that this was not the role of the Ombudsman. And I would like to say: this is the role of the Ombudsman, because art. The 3rd Ombudsperson of Children's Rights Act clearly states that it is also education. And this really succeeded in a consistent and effective way to guide Mark Michalak, who, through figures or Janusz Korczak, or Irena Sendlerova indicated both adults and children, where children's rights are and how they should be exercised. Your candidate thinks she has another philosophy and another idea. In its assessment, it is important to react. Intervention, yes, but also the dissemination of knowledge is very important in this regard. I'm sorry to say, but the modern one is unable to support such a candidacy, [[Applause]] which is not [[♪ The bell ♪]] ct be able to go beyond political divisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u554	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the next meeting in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska once again failed to answer the question... [[You left the room.]] Whether she's a proponent or an opponent, she didn't answer the question, she didn't answer the answer... [[The voice from the hall: She said, but you weren't there.]] ...whether she's a proponent or an opponent of eugenic abortion. [[She answered very clearly.]] She also refused to answer the question of Members of your club, the Law and Justice, who also asked this question. That's the first thing. Second thing. During this committee meeting today, Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska, on my question, whether her co-worker is Mrs Monica Winter, confirmed that she will not deny her knowledge and cooperation with Mrs Monica Winter. Mrs. Monika Zima, because maybe not everyone realizes, is the author of the textbook of Rainbow families in Poland. Right and lesbian and gay families. Publishers of whose? [[She said they knew each other, not that they were cooperating.]] Campaigns Against Homophobia. And I'm not surprised that your candidate, I don't take away her competence when it comes to disabled children, etc., but I'm not surprised that your candidate is not clear in these most important, conservative, Catholic things. [[You should've sat in the O.R. and listened.]] I am not surprised, because next Friday in several hundred Polish schools will be a rainbow Friday, during your governments, under the rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In Hungary, they've just eliminated gender studies. In Poland, in Polish schools under the rule of Minister Zalewska is the Rainbow Friday, and under the rule of Minister Gowin there is still propaganda gender studies. That is the truth about your pseudoconservative character and your governments. It's outrageous that things like this happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u556	And what is this Rainbow Friday? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm sorry, I forgot it was... In that case, ladies and gentlemen, all Members willing and registered have spoken. The discussion is closed. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be appointed by an absolute majority of the Ombudsman. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of choosing Ms Agnieszka Maria Dudzińska as the spokesperson for the rights of the child, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 232 votes against and 184 abstentions. I state that the Sejm elected Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska as the spokesperson for the rights of the child by an absolute majority. [[Applause]] According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Act on the Advocate for the Rights of the Child, the Sejm shall appoint an Advocate with the consent of the Senate. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the occasion of the 100th National Festival. Anniversary of Independence Recovery (print No 2931). The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the bill. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. The Sejm has decided not to send the bill to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendments has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. Amendments were delivered to print No 2931. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose a new title of the draft law. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u557	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this is a project that fits into such, I would say, a very irresponsible policy of law and justice, which in short boils down to creating further obstacles to the functioning of the economy. Thanks to this project, which introduces an additional day off, the Polish economy will lose about PLN 7 billion, there will be further problems concerning whether planned visits to specialists or production, supplies, transport. You haven't thought very much about this project. There is still time to get out of this, which I am appealing for, because the losses to the economy, the losses to the citizens who will not be able to deal with the things they have been planning for a long time, will be extremely important and very measurable. If you have any respect for the Polish economy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish business, Polish entrepreneurs, you will withdraw from this harmful project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u558	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first and second amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 237, against - 82, with 91 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a. The question is asked by Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u559	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Dear Applicants! This amendment extends the catalogue of people working during the day, which you want to give a day off, i.e. 12 November 2018 He says hospitals, infirmaries and pharmacy will be open. This is the further division and sorting of Poles. So I'm asking what happened to babysitting on November 12 that aren't going to school, and their parents are gonna be in a hospital, an infirmary or a pharmacy. Again thoughtless and on your knees. [[Oh, my gosh, you made that up. Or are they gonna stand in line?]] What did such an important anniversary, which happens once every 100 years, deserve such light treatment? But it's like you guys, this way of making law and ad hoc and random action. Thank you. [[Beautiful, very nice. I was thinking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u560	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 263, against - 63, with 87 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Members raise questions in front of the whole. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club and the whole Modern Party are in favour of us celebrating the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, with dignity and due respect on 11 November. We are prepared to do this in a dignified way, but what you are proposing is unfortunately not in these categories. You're making a quick amendment that's gonna keep us from killing someone else's stupidity, but it's not gonna help much. This bill is wrong, it will cost Poles 6.5 billion. In conclusion, the question to your marshal. Marshal, last week I saw a new voting system that was installed for the fourth time. Question is, did someone steal it again? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u562	There are no thieves in the Seym. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, near Free and Solidarni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask that perhaps in the context of Independence Day, especially 100 years of independence, we do not just talk about money. I don't know if you know what national pride is. Polish society has national pride, ladies and gentlemen, and wants to be able to celebrate peacefully on 11 November. [[Applause]] It's very, very, very, very nice to hear how you talk about unity on the part of the Civic Platform on 11 November. You showed this unity during your reigns when you sent the police to the Independence March when young people were shot during the celebrations of November 11th. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about?]] Then there was the unity of the Polish nation, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u564	Member Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Some Members chant: Away with the commune! Down with the commune! Down with the commune!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u565	I can stand here and listen. My time hasn't started yet. It just started. Why don't I start by saying it's always a special experience... [[That's where you're wrong.]] ...watching Mr Andruszkiewicz pour vaseline towards you. It's full of fun. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But I think in the Podlasie PiS, no one's ever fallen on their head to the point where you're in the party. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're acting like compulsive gamblers who won a lottery ticket, but you're not paying attention... [[Watch your back, Tom.]] ...that 99% That kind of wins in a year is losing that money. And this is how you manage money and time of Poles. [[It was Wałęsa who played the lottery.]] The best example of how you approach citizens' money is the behaviour of your great strategist, who doesn't come to work for six months and takes a salary paid by taxpayers. [[Applause]] [[Take care of your father.]] And Mrs Pavłowicz [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wish you well. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Take care of your father.]] [[And Grandpa.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u566	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are speaking in a more appropriate way to the representative of the nation. Mr Andruszkiewicz in what way? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Corrections. Mr Cimoszewicz referred to me.]] But he didn't quote you. No, he didn't quote you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Club Kukiz.15. [[Kozłowski.]] Member of Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u567	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Law and Justice. Do you have any Members who have ever engaged in business activities? [[Voice from the room: Nah...]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't one!]] There isn't. [[Everyone from the budget.]] I'll tell you this: there's such a thing as planning when it comes to business. The employer plans his days off well in advance so that everything is settled. In a company well run, such things are simply obvious. I don't know, maybe you don't realize how the introduction of some day off three weeks before him completely destroys the activities of such entities that sometimes have one or two employees because they disorganize the work. There are companies that have to carry out planned activities all the time, and such enterprises in Poland are the most. You're not celebrating us, businessmen. You're hurting us, and the employees don't get anything out of it. [[There are other people besides entrepreneurs.]] You have no idea how to do business. I'm afraid the traffic newsstand is too much for you guys anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u568	Mr President, this is your individual assessment. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 2931, together with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Against!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 233, against - 105, with 77 abstentions. I state that the Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the National Day on the occasion of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 23 October this year. Members have made themselves known to the statements. Is there anyone else? If not, I'm closing the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 minutes 04 hours 0 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Ms Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club, has the first vote. There is no Member. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, there you go. [[Mr. Marshal, with all due respect, one moment more. I'd like you to see me at the end.]] You're welcome. How about you as the second Member? [[Wait a minute.]] [[I'm here.]] Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u569	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 20 October this year. in the auditorium of John Paul II of the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw in the framework of the 2nd International Movement Congress, the conference entitled "The Strong Family Force of Europe" took place. About 300 people from different parts of Poland took part in the conference. The speakers were high representatives of the Catholic Church, science and politics from Poland, Croatia, Spain, Lithuania and Italy. In the narrow time frame of my statement, I am unable to quote a number of significant threads during the programme speeches, so I will limit myself only to presenting to the High Sejm the position which was adopted at the end of the session, believing that the High House will share the views expressed by the participants of this significant event. The final position of the participants of the conference "Strong family by force of Europe" organized in the framework of the Second International Movement Congress "Europe Christi" in cooperation with the Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science and the Polish Family Rights Committee, Warsaw on 20 October 2018. The participants of the conference take the view that the family is natural, primal to others and the basic social cell. The family is a priceless value that must be properly protected both nationally and internationally. Marriage is regarded as a voluntary relationship between women and men in accordance with formal rules is the foundation of the family and its sustainability should be protected to the full. The natural and irreplaceable environment of the proper development of the child from conception to the attainment of adulthood is the family, and any other solutions in this regard pose a threat to the proper development of the child. Family rights are natural, and their recognition by all authorities, communities and public opinion is a fundamental and inalienable obligation. The Charter of Family Rights proclaimed by the Holy See on 22 October 1983, irrespective of the views of politicians, should inspire all authorities responsible for establishing and respecting the rights of the general and local population. The participants of the conference appeal to the state and local authorities, international and ecclesiastical institutions and social activists and all people of good will to increase their concern for the subjectivity of the family by continuing to take various actions aimed at the well-being of the family and each of its members, creating conditions for the proper functioning and comprehensive development of the family and each person, stigmatizing actions that pose a threat to the family, especially in the legal, economic, social and moral spheres. Participants of the conference concerned about the future of the family and about the creation and respect of its rights call for special protection of marriage, family and parenthood from all competent authorities in Poland, Europe and the world by taking urgent work to ratify the International Convention on Family Rights, establishing on 22 October an international day of family rights, creating and defending family-friendly rights in every dimension of social and individual life. Above all, we ask the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic of Poland to decide as soon as possible, which will safeguard the legal protection of life from conception to natural death, so that the signatures of nearly 900 thousand. Polish citizens under the citizens' bill "Stop abortion" received proper respect, and God's law - do not kill anyone became applicable in Poland. The conference participants express their gratitude to all institutions and authorities and to all people of good will for the actions they have taken so far in the care of marriage, family and everyone from conception to natural death. On behalf of the participants of the conference, Fr. Inf. Dr. Ireneusz Skubiś, moderator of the Movement of Europe Christi and Tadeusz Wozniak, Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, chairman of the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u570	Thank you very much. The statement is now made by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u571	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member from Pomerania, I would like to ask about Pomerania's investments. At the previous session of the Sejm, we started a discussion on our country's budget for 2019. Unfortunately, this is not a good budget for the inhabitants of Pomeranian Voivodship. I would like to ask why the government in the draft budget law for 2019 did not foresee funds for the construction of the Tri-City Metropolitan Circuit. This is one of the most important investments for inhabitants of Pomeranian Voivodship. The European Commission has already pointed out to the Polish government that the construction of the Metropolitan Circuit of the Tricity is a key element of the whole S6 route co-financed by European funds. This year, the administrative court rejected the complaint against the environmental decision and became final. The PiS government claimed that when the NSA's decision is made, then the construction of the metropolitan ring road will begin. The current regional Tricity has actually become the road of the inner agglomeration, the urban road, and it is already very crowded. And that's not gonna happen. Despite the positive decision of the court in the 2019 budget, not even a zloty was foreseen for the construction of the Tri-City Metropolitan Circuit. Of course, I know about two complaints currently filed with the NSA, but they will be settled on 14 November. I therefore call very much for funds to be secured for this important route for the entire agglomeration, as well as for all the people of our country who are going to the sea and there are a lot of them every year. I call on the government to find money and save money in the budget for 2019 for the Tri-City Metropolitan Ridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u572	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last Sunday there were elections to local authorities throughout Poland. The first to take place in a situation where a large part of the opposition gathered in this House has for a long time been carrying out a propaganda message about the threat of democracy and supposed attempts by the government and parliamentary majority of authoritarian governance. That's not the end of it. We have been repeatedly accused of the intention to forge elections, of political persecutions, of everything that may be an argument in the attack by foreign opposition activists' partners whose interests are threatened, when the Polish state improves its institutions, effectively pursues when it comes to unlawful financial transfers and tax fraud. But let's see what the practice of these elections looked like. The State Election Commission reported a significantly lower number of incidents due to the violation of electoral law than in 2014. The percentage of non-valid votes instead of a dozen percent was at most a few percent, as is the case with normal, well-managed elections. That's all with a turnout of not 47%, but 55%. High Izbo! This is what a real celebration of democracy looks like. Elections that have been organized and conducted better for the first time in years than before. The computer system wasn't suspended, and most of the results are already known. So much remains in contact with reality from the evil, antagonizing and simply lying propaganda of the opposition, which itself called itself total. If something in today's Poland poses a real threat to democracy, it is only their contempt for the results of public decisions, especially if the result does not meet their expectations. Law and Justice always respect the voices of society. As you can see from the preliminary analysis of the electoral process, it is a guarantee of fairness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u574	Thank you very much. Mr Kornel Morawiecki, the Free and Solidarni Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are questions for the Prime Minister. Dear Prime Minister, I am astonished to see the passiveness of state bodies that have not taken action to clarify the case concerning former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło Robert Grey. The matter has not been properly clarified either to the public or to the interested person himself, as evidenced by the speech by Mr Robert Winnicki of 9 May this year. Robert Grey, at the end of his duties as a senior state official in the Ministry led by Witold Waszczykowski, was subjected to an unprecedented attack by the Polish-dominated press titles, among others. Wyborcza gazety and Faktu, with which he is pursuing processes for the protection of personal goods. Given the scale of the accusations against the former Deputy Minister, I ask the Prime Minister the following questions: Did the relevant state authorities take any action to explain the allegations against Robert Grey, in particular to the extent that the Polish media were to obtain information concerning Minister Grey from the widely understood services operating in the country? Did the then Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski take action to clarify the allegations against one of his key subordinates, in particular did he speak with him personally and did he hold a press conference on the subject of the circumstances concerning the termination of cooperation and media speculation with Mr Grey? Did the then foreign minister Witold Waszczykowski make changes in the management and in the areas he pointed out after Robert Grey's cancellation? Did the Foreign Minister of that time carry out a media statement that he would use Mr Grey's experience in a different way? Was Minister Grey offered a suitable job at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which Witold Waszczykowski then announced in the media or any work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? What were the actions of the then President of the Council of Ministers, Beata Szydło, in order to explain to Poles the existence or not of the grounds of the allegations directed against a high-ranking government official, in particular whether an interview was held with Robert Grey and whether explanations were received from Witold Waszczykowski? Is there any protocol in place? Has a press conference been held to protect the image of Poland both in the country and in the international arena? What actions were undertaken by Minister Mariusz Kaminski regarding the verification of information allegedly given to the media by the Polish services concerning Robert Grey? Have ABW, SKW, BBN and other government agencies taken action to clarify the case? If so, what is it? What effect did they have? What action has been taken to clarify the claim made by the Minister's company to receive PLN 24 million? Was that information true? Did the CBA take appropriate action? If so, what is it? If not, why not? Following Mr Winnicki's statement in the Sejm on 9 May 2018, have measures been taken to clarify the questions raised in the statement? If any of the above applies. action has been taken, and where can it be seen of its effects and findings? Are there procedures for the state's response to such cases? Has any action been taken to prevent this from happening in the future? Dear Prime Minister, On behalf of Mr Robert Grey, I would like to ask you very much to take a closer look at the matter and to examine in depth all the events that have taken place in the past and undoubtedly the tragic effects that have been reflected on the present by the former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-23-sejm-70-1.u576	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned by 24 October 2018 at the latest. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 20]]
