ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u1	I open the 70th Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 21 December 2018 13 miners, including 12 Polish miners, were killed as a result of the methane explosion in the coal mine in Karwina, Czech Republic. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the dead miners. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Bishop Tadeusz Pieronek died yesterday in Cracow, the auxiliary bishop of pinewood in 1992 and 1998, the secretary general of the Polish Episcopal Conference in 1993 and 1998, the rector of the Papal Theological Academy in Cracow in 1998 and 2004. I ask you to commemorate a minute of silence in the memory of the late Bishop. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Senate! I would like to inform you that on 27 November 2018, the Secretary of the Committee for European Affairs gave the Senate the position of the Government on the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: the Committee's work programme for 2019. It is contained in print No 1036. I sent these documents to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixty-seventh Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first point of the draft agenda be considered, although the prints on this law have been provided at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any calls. I therefore state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1066 and the committee's report in print No 1066-A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. Dear Senators! The need for a law is linked to dynamic increases in electricity prices in the wholesale market in 2018. These increases are strongly linked to the European Union's climate policy. The main element is the carbon trading scheme introduced in the European Union by the Directive of 13 October 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community. This regulation, this Directive, requires Member States to purchase CO2 emission allowances from sources of combustion of fuels. The price of CO2 allowances in 2017 oscillated at €5.6 per tonne, but in 2018 there was a very steep increase in prices by almost 400%. , on average up to EUR 25 per tonne. The Act significantly reduces not only the administrative burden on electricity bills by reducing the level of excise duty from 20 PLN/MWh to 5 PLN/MWh, which is practically the minimum value permitted by European law. This right defines the reduction of this excise duty to the value of 1 euro. The interim fee will also be reduced by approximately 95%. for all electricity consumers. Such a reduction in the tax rate and the transitional charge will ensure that the total cost of the recipients, in particular the household users, is maintained at a level similar to that of the current year. However, the reduction in excise duty and the transitional levy may not be sufficient, and 2 other instruments have been used to maintain the current level of energy prices. The financing of the whole mechanism will come mainly from 2 sources. The proceeds from the sale of emission allowances will be one source and the other source is the state budget for reducing revenue at a reduced rate of excise duty. I would like to stress that the draft law provides for the stabilisation of electricity sales prices to final customers in 2019. However, 2019 is not the final, limit year. The instruments that have been proposed in this Act can move flexibly to the following years. As I have already said, the price factors that justify the increase in electricity prices in 2019 compared to the prices of the current year are quite significant. Therefore, I now wish to present these 4 instruments in a cataloguing manner. The first instrument is the reduction of excise duty, which I have already mentioned, from 20 PLN to 5 PLN per MWh. The second is a 95% reduction in the rate of the transitional fee for all customers. Another instrument is a direct return on lost income The fourth instrument is a national green investment scheme, a mechanism which consists in funding projects involving new low carbon energy sources, modernisations reducing the unit benchmark or investment projects in distribution infrastructure. The entire budget of these 4 instruments is over PLN 9 billion. These are estimates that 1 billion 850 million are planned to be spent on excise duty reduction, to reduce the transitional fee of 2 billion 240 million, to pay the price difference of about 4 billion and to the national green investment system of about 1 billion. As I mentioned, this gives the amount of more than PLN 9 billion. During the debate, issues related to the application of this law, including the relatively short vacathio legis, were discussed. If we accept that this bill will be adopted today, the period of vacathio legis will be quite short. I would also like to stress that a national green investment system is being created, and instruments are being created that will allow the investment of the distribution system, for investments in renewable energy installations, but also for investments in cogeneration units producing electricity and useful heat, a high-efficiency cogeneration unit, which is the law that we adopted at the last Senate meeting. The joint committees request that the law be adopted without amendments, but minority proposals were submitted during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I am now asking the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I don't think that's exactly what happened at the committee meeting. From the beginning we protested, did not want to consider this law at such a rate, in such a way that it prevented any opinion on such complex matter, which later turned out to be in questions, on which almost half of the At least my Mr. Minister didn't answer. These were fundamental questions, calling into question the compatibility of this submission with European Union law, the appropriateness of such a calculation of costs rather than another, indicating the lack of guarantee that this law will prevent the increase in energy prices in the coming years, the lack of preparation of institutions. We also questioned the justification by trying to prove that the main reason for the rapid rise in prices is the abandonment of energy policy and, in particular, the slowdown in the development of prosumer energy and renewable energy. Because that's the main reason why we're so overwhelmed by these rights prices, not the other way around. I would like to say to you that, at the committee meeting, we did not have a chance to examine this law properly, but we are still submitting minority proposals. Since that's what I figured out from Senator Gawada's report The government's intention was to make excise duty close to this The lowest permitted by European Union law, let us be consistent. That is what the first amendment is about. If it is true that for individuals this permissible minimum excise duty is to be 1 euro, it should not be 5 zł but 4.50 zł, even if the exchange rate deviations are taken into account. But Senator Gawada, Mr Gawada, did not say that European Union law differentiates these rates. In the case of traders, this lowest rate may be EUR 0.5. We want this differentiation and we want it to be 2 PLN and 25 gr for them. In turn, in order to prevent price collations, as we talked about at the committee meeting, we propose a change in the Energy Law Act, i.e. the addition of an article. 2a, as a result of which Article 2a would be repealed. 9. The idea is that the obligation to sell electricity on the market should cover all manufacturers, not only those who have not yet signed long-term contracts, but all of them. Then there wouldn't be a gate, there wouldn't be a bypass, and right away there would be a market mechanism. And the Minister explained that that is exactly what he is here to prevent uncontrollable increases in energy prices. It's necessary as a system solution to make it work at all. We are also proposing amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. You have them in minority applications. Amendments in points 3, 5 and 6 are editorial. Amendment in point 5 concerning Article. The following words shall be added by the fund after point 4 of the Annex: Because it's not that all the interest payable by the minister is transferred to this fund. It certainly wasn't the ministry's intention; I can't even imagine it could be that way. Only those who are owned by, yes, the minister and who are placed in this fund. Well, with such a legislative bubble about huge money, which has a completely different budget destiny, one cannot be reconciled, so I ask you very much to accept this and all the other amendments I have tabled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki was the first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It shouldn't surprise me to be the first. Both senators of the rapporteurs. I have before me a Senate printing containing a legal act under review and I have a fundamental question about the assessment of the effects of the regulation, which should be an essential part of the analysis of the legal act under review, which results from the working rules of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, Mr Senators, I have not received the impact of the regulatory assessment according to the methodology prepared by the Minister of Economy. I do not know, perhaps there was a debate at the joint committee meeting, a discussion on the impact assessment of the regulation. I understand that this is an important element that will, on the one hand, relieve citizens and certain economic operators and, on the other hand, impose certain obligations on the state budget. Was such a debate during the committee's work and the impact of the regulatory evaluation presented to you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u7	Thank you very much. It's for both of you, but a moment, because you're still Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm a little toned up by Senator Slugocki's question. Well, the procedure of this law is, I would say, in express mode, extremely express mode. I would like to ask the representative of the majority, Senator Gadęda, whether representatives of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission were present during the joint committee's work. After all, the effects of this law will affect to a large extent e.g. local government units and whether or not there was a representative of the Energy Regulatory Office and the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and if they were not, did the government representative at least inform the combined High Commissions that the government project was consulted with these entities. Because he should be consulted. There's a request for answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u9	Thank you very much. And the last question in this tour Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u10	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Senator of the committee, not the minority, but the majority of the joint committees. Mr Senator, was there any mention at the committee's meeting of what years were the decisions that led to an increase in the amount of CO2 emissions into the atmosphere, the effects of which will come into force from 2019? It's about this five-fold increase in CO2 emissions. Was there a speech about that? About the mechanism, about how... 'Cause I think the public doesn't really know about it, and I'd like the senator to explain it in detail. Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: But to which senator...]] I told you, Senator Gadawada. [[Voice from the room: Oh, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u11	You're welcome. Senator Gawada first, then Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I briefly presented the effects of the regulation in accordance with Sejm No 3112 and No 3112-A. In the explanatory memorandum there is also an indication of what budget this will affect. I'm the one who introduced it. So a reduction in excise duty... it'll be financed from two sources. From excise duty and from the reduction of the transitional levy. Together, this budget closes in the amount of just over PLN 9 billion. Such calculations have been presented. About the second question... At the meeting of the committee there were representatives of all ministries of the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Finance. He was a representative of the Energy Regulatory Office. I'd have to look closely at the guest list to tell you who else was invited. At this point, I wouldn't want to mislead your senator. But what I'm saying now, I know. As regards the CO2 regulation mechanism, the EU solutions adopted and the fact that they were accepted by the former Prime Minister Kopacz in 2014, there was no such discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u13	Mr. Senator, excuse me. I've downloaded them from the Sejm sites. It didn't contain OSR. It is a duty, of course, but it has not been completed. Therefore, we heard some elements of the justification, but it was not there. I also refer a little bit to the OSR, of course, the consultation information, there was no precise description of the positions of the various institutions, as these consultations were most likely not carried out. We know for ourselves how short the time has been since this law was drawn up. According to my understanding, there were also no representatives of local governments, no local government corporation or representatives of the UOKiK.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u14	Thank you very much. Now you're Senator Jan Rulewski and then you're Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Rapporteurs! It is a universal and indelible obligation to present an opinion on compliance with European Union law, and in this particular case excise duty and VAT are those data which affect inter alia. on the development of the European Union's finances, e.g. when it comes to national contributions. And the question is whether an opinion has been put forward in this regard. What's worse, it's not just a formal requirement. Can these opinions possibly stop the regulation process, which is important for millions of people as well as for entrepreneurs? Were these questions asked... Did the committee on which he was under such an obligation raise these questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u16	Thank you. Senator Filip Libicki and then Andrzej Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u17	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Gadawada. Well, for the first time, that there would be such a big increase in electricity prices, I found out four months ago when I was called by an entrepreneur from my constituency, a furniture manufacturer who employs 800 employees, and informed me that in his case the price for electricity according to the tariff proposed to him would increase by PLN 2.5 million. That was four months ago. I would like to ask if representatives of the government or any government institution informed you at a committee meeting since they were aware that electricity prices would rise so rapidly. Because today's deliberations would indicate that this consciousness appeared a week ago, two weeks ago. So, was it mentioned? Since when did the government know that such increases threaten us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u18	Thank you, Senator. Senator Andrzej Wojtyla, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u19	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. The regulations that were accepted by Poland in 2014, as you said, are the result of the CO2 Directive. As far as I can remember. And as chief health inspector, I was a negotiator when it came to food regulations. It was for many years that negotiations took place, among others. Poland, about this problem. I remember that as early as 2007, in 2008 there was a discussion that Poland did not agree and the countries of the European Union, even the Western ones, believed that we were right because... Should we have agreed to these regulations? What was the date of entry into force of this directive? Well, because that's the gloating of the regulations that we've adopted ourselves, and now there's a discussion on some formal issues... But this government is not guilty of us agreeing to these regulations, but of what I had. Then we knew that we could have been tougher in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u20	Thank you. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u21	As far as excise duty is concerned, no consultation and consent from the European Commission is required at the level proposed in this Act. Nor do we, Senator, touch the VAT regulations. We are therefore in line with all European regulations in this area. As for the information about when the Ministry of Energy took the news about the possibility of increasing energy prices, let me put it this way: we know that this information reached the Ministry of Energy earlier... From what I remember as the draftsman of the committee, it appears that on December 5th, yes, Minister? It was decided that CO2 allowances could be disposed of. That's the answer to the second question. And the answer to the third. It was a matter of negotiation with the European Commission. [[Voice from the room: But...]] Yes, Mr Senator, then Prime Minister Donald Tusk resigned from the right of veto, in fact in this negotiating area he gave up a strong argument that would allow the Polish position to be tough, as the senator pointed out. The adoption of a later regulation, which I mentioned in 2014, confirmed that 2019 would be the year in which emissions prices could increase. Besides, in order to clarify this, I would also like to say that these issues were not widely discussed at the joint committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u23	Senator Rulewski, because he asked both of us... The question of compliance with European Union law was raised at a committee meeting. I'm the one who asked them. I have received an answer from the Minister that there is no opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this area. So I understand that we don't really know if this law in every way maybe in the one you were talking about, yes, but in everyone, we don't know. It is compatible with European Union law. We don't know that. In my question, I have referred to the opinion of many experts who question this and argue that, as regards the measures that will be addressed to businesses as compensation, they may be considered unlawful public aid. Yeah, but we don't have an opinion on that, as the Minister said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u24	Thank you, Senator. Now for another series of questions. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u25	Thank you very much. Again, I have a question for both senators of the rapporteurs. In a way, Senator Augustine just mentioned it... My question is whether the competent Ministry, presenting the legal act under investigation, asked the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection as to the possible condition for unlawful State aid. Because, as the State in the Ministry probably knows, in accordance with the Act of 30 April 2004 on proceedings in public aid cases, this is the opinion expressed by the President of the OOKiK, and according to that Act public aid is notified to the European Commission. Was there a debate about this? Isn't the government worried about illegal state aid? Because this will, of course, impose obligations on Poland, which unfortunately will also stop further proceedings over this law. I'm thinking about her coming into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u26	Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u27	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Rulewski urged me to ask this question because he was so concerned about European Union law. This question is addressed to the Senator of the minority rapporteur, because an amendment is tabled here to reduce this, it seems that a safe 5-gold excise duty amount to PLN 4 50 per MWh. When submitting this amendment, did a group of minority applicants take into account the possible non-compliance of such a rate with European Union legislation? And the consequences... The euro exchange rate is a liquid exchange rate and although it is quite stable recently, over the past 8 and 9 years there have been fluctuations in the euro exchange rate above PLN 4.50. And what if we pass a law with the amount of PLN 4 50 per MWh, and suddenly it turns out that the euro rate will simply be higher? What then? Were there any analyses carried out before the amendment was tabled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u28	Thank you. Senator Jan Dobrzyński. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Mr Augustin. Of course, you will agree with me if I say that the response of the Polish Government is correct in this situation, because it is the responsibility of the government to respond to such crises. But I have a question... The senator was a senator in 2014, you were in the ruling party at that time. Why didn't Prime Minister Donald Tusk veto records that were clearly detrimental to our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u30	You're welcome, Mr. Senators Rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u31	Mr. Marshal, one question has been addressed to me, if I have properly read it. It was about public aid and whether the government was concerned that the legal arrangements applied could be treated as public aid. Answers have been given mainly to the instruments proposed here that the government is not afraid of such a risk. Has the question been addressed to the UOKiK? I don't know if this was discussed at the committee meeting. I can't... I don't think so. I would just like to clarify further that as far as excise and VAT issues are concerned, Senator Rulewski asked about them. I replied that in the case of these regulations covering excise duties, the statutory regulations adopted include our prerogatives and legal capacity of the Sejm and the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u32	Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u33	With regard to the first question, namely whether the Ministry addressed the UOKiK, there was no such information at the committee meeting, but I think that since there was not even an opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is probably similar with an office that is competent to issue such an opinion first. My conviction is that this is not a coincidence and that it is dangerous that we are not sure that this law is compatible with EU law when we proceed to the process. We don't know that for sure. Secondly, are we not afraid that there will be a breach of this threshold if it is so close? If it happens... You have a unique skill in this area: we can quickly amend the law. And it won't require a night's sleep, we can do it fast. But the essence of this amendment, Mr Senator, is not only that we are getting closer to this EUR 1 but also that we are getting closer to EUR 0.5 and that you have not introduced this diversity at all. To answer Senator Dobrzyński's question, I remember the 2014 discussion. I would like to point out, Mr. Marshal, that this was not the case at the committee meeting, but the question to me was my opinion, so if you allow me, I will express it. This discussion was conducted around the theme of the climate package and was concluded with a compromise that was achieved after many years. This compromise was based on this I'm gonna say this because it's important to understand this bill. It is true that, as it was in 2003, the trading of allowances is being introduced, but the money obtained from it does not go somewhere unknown, only they are ours, intended to accelerate the modernisation of energy and promote renewable sources. It is, of course, for discussion whether enough has been done in this regard. Probably every government since 2003, and there's been a few of them... The state began happily the sixth year of government... [[Not yet.]] ...and it's a big step out of those 15 years... Yeah, 'cause first two years, and now it's fourth year, so... [[With Giertych...]] We weren't alone either. We weren't alone either, we were in the coalition, and it wasn't helping this case, it was making it difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this mechanism was not considered to be a mechanism which in general harms Poland and Poles. Well, unless we consider that those 45 or 50,000 Poles who are dying because unfortunately we have the environment we have, this is a matter worthy of disregard, and in general the Union wants to step on our feet and harm us. No, it was a joint decision made in the European family, which was aimed at converting our energy mixes as quickly as possible into zero-carbon or rather least emission mixes. Because the goal in the form of zero-emissions came much later, so that at that time it was about the least emission. I think that today, after the summit in Katowice, after the huge discussion that took place at this summit, right here in our country, during our Presidency It would be good for us, on the occasion of this law, to seek a compromise with us in order to make the best possible regulation in this regard. May I remind you? Although you've been here a long time. That you were against all laws that aimed to accelerate the modernisation of Polish energy. Always, consistently against. So to say that the state... The only basis for being blamed on someone would be if you were to present for 15 years at least one project that would meet this demand. But there's no such project. You've always been in the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u34	Mr. Senator, you're having a discussion right now, not answering questions. Excuse me... [[Mr. Senator, you know you haven't answered my question at all.]] [[He answered.]] No, but that's hard enough. That's what happens. [[Awkward question.]] [[I'm still...]] Anything else you'd like to add? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u35	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to clarify something further. One of the previous questions concerned when the Ministry of Energy took this information. On 5 December, the European Commission published a communication authorising the allocation of allowances as an additional tranche for sale on the European stock exchange on behalf of Poland. And that's the information. I would like to emphasise one more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. Well, this law is adopted in such a way, in a very short time, but we must take into account that our will is to keep energy prices at the current level in the G tariff, i.e. the one that affects the whole number of Poles, but also to keep energy prices at the current level not only for individual consumers but also for companies, for those companies that have a significant share of energy consumption in the cost pool, as well as for local government units. We have often heard the wrong opinion that local governments are raising the prices of various services, including garbage charges or other charges, referring to the rise in energy prices, this law also in some way cleans up, eliminates this type of inappropriate and unauthorised generation of storms and opinions from some local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator... Now for another series of questions. Senator Jerzy Wczyła, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u37	I would like to address my question to both Senators. This law has this good side that it removes about 8 or 9 billion zlotys of electricity from its last customers. That's a good thing. Only that we adopt this law on 28 December 2019 and only for 2019. And there is nothing to suggest that we should not have the same problem in 2020 and in the years to come. Why is this law adopted only for 2019? Was there a discussion at the committee meeting? [[What kind of questioning model is that?]] Will we wait again until December to take care of 2020?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u38	Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Augustine because I have not heard the answer before. According to the definition of unlawful State aid, this is the financing from the budget which threatens to distort or affect trade between Member States. It's been decommissioned today. - No, 95%. The partial payment was created precisely as a result of the recognition by the European Commission of similar charges... It was then that it concerned both Poland and Hungary. This concerned long-term contracts in Poland. Mr. Senator, is today... Because there were questions for the Minister. In the Minister's reply, Senator, did you hear such an argument that could reassure us, assure us that what we are doing right now? And we're talking about huge amounts. Isn't it going to be considered illegal public aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u40	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u41	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have two questions. The first one is to the senator of the minority rapporteur, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. What would it do if all of us in the European Union, all of us, come down, assume, to a minimum, emissions? So let's say it's going to be, let's say, 9%, 12%. or 13% on a global scale. What good is it if big countries like China, the United States or India don't agree? What good is that gonna do us? What's that for? Was it a good decision, in 2014, that the Civic Platform government and Donald Tusk's boss agreed to do so? And the second question will be to the Senator of the rapporteur Adam Gawada. I have a question for you. Because at all about the increase in electricity that will be like this in 2019, I found out in 2014. I knew they would be. We organized more than 100 meetings in the Podkarpackie voivodship itself, among others. with then MEPs Zbigniew Ziobra, Tadeusz Cymanski, also with Mr Ludwik Dorn. We talked about this, among other things. Stomil, Sanok... This is a powerful plant where you consume a lot of energy. But in your opinion, Senator, could it be that the head of the Civic Platform just then, in 2014, agreed to this solution, very unfavorable for our country, in exchange for receiving the position of the king of Europe, the head of the European Council? And is it because of this... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking you a question. This is a discussion, a debate, so that I ask for a specific question.]] Is that how he could have made 10 million euros in his job? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u42	I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! These three questions were addressed to me. I also asked where those guarantees were. I asked the Minister to indicate where there are supposed guarantees in this law that a similar mechanism, one or another, will be in force after 2019. That's not the answer I got. On an indirect basis, the Minister replied that many circumstances would still change and that perhaps these mechanisms would have to be different. At least that's how I understood one of the Minister's statements, but this question was not answered directly. Senator Pociej referred to the definition of illegal public aid. Well, it was a matter of concern for the senators at the committee meeting, but there was no satisfactory response. Neither legal confirmation nor necessary in such times of opinions of the UOKiK and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was present. It was the minister who said they were gone. I understand that there may be an opinion from the Ministry of Energy, but in the system of law it has been established that other institutions, other than the ministries concerned, are to establish this compatibility, so that the ministries, in implementing their services policy, do not violate the general rules in force in the European Union. That's all I can say about it. That's how I understood the committee. I personally referred to some of the opinions I read, which show that this type of manoeuvre is likely to be, at least in part, considered illegal public aid. I would say that after the climate summit in Katowice... I would say to Senator Golbie that it would be beautiful if the whole world wanted to accept the encyclical of the Holy Father concerning this scope of affairs. [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] It's Laudato si. It's worth reading, I've read it several times. And then climate threats... [[Voice from the room: I think it's Latin.]] ...would probably be a priority. It seems to me that the European Union strategy, which is responsible for 20% emissions, in this situation is the only possible: set a good example, limit yourself 'Cause it's 20%. emissions are not low And call for dialogue, as in Katowice, so that others want to follow this path. It could be said that otherwise, in this discussion, in this dispute, the European Union would have no arguments. Today I think we can act as a serious partner who refers to his Christian roots The pope understands them. It is trying to build on good scientific studies and move in the right direction, and this mechanism, which has been introduced here in Poland, as in all other countries, should allow us to raise money so that we can implement this climate policy of the European Union in accordance with the agreed commitments. We've been doing too little on this for years, and that's our problem, because we're releasing two and a half times the EU average when it comes to CO2. And that's the problem, and that's why the heavy loads. If we had an EU average, or if we were getting close to it. At a fast pace, that would be two and a half times the problem. [[It's still the result of the bad communist economy...]] [[Voice from the room: I PRON.]] Probably a lot of things, probably a lot of things...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u44	But, gentlemen senators, let's not speak without... [[But, Mr. Marshal, that kind of talk is...]] Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u45	Mr Marshal, as to the functioning of this law, it was the Minister at the committee meeting who pointed out that this law does not introduce rigid regulations which, as I say, close the area of operation of these provisions only in 2019. As an example, I can only quote that the Payment Fund for Differences Prices will function... The law does not specify its termination, closure in 2019. This is about the period of operation of this law. Second question, Senator Golby... It's already been called here. Yes, Prime Minister Tusk, then Prime Minister, could indeed have been tough and in such a more favorable way... [[...you're referring to those cases...]] ...to negotiate...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u46	No. And why shouldn't we? [[Well, if that's the question...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But don't disturb me, the senator answers. There you go... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[If that's the question, I'll ask you one more time...]] That's how you always react nervously to this Donald Tusk, so... [[It's not nervous, it's just...]] [[You don't recognize Mr. Tusk?]] Nervously, when you mention the name Tusk, you get so nervous. Why? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: And they're sorry he made 10 million euros. Well, they're sorry.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Easy, easy. There you go. I hope you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u47	Mr. Marshal, I think the truth and the facts are sometimes painful for some. In 2014, Mr. Senator, it was as if Prime Minister Kopacz was negotiating the terms that are working today... I would just like to say this, Dear Senators, that if we were to adopt the conditions of the European Commission aimed at significantly reducing CO2 emissions and somehow obliging us to introduce such techniques, and we would not be talking about decarbonisation, we would be flexible in implementing important investments today, and we would accept... [[Senator Kazimierz Kleina: 2 days before the end of the year...)]] Rigid rules adopted in BAT oblige us to introduce new investments and new heating blocks in this direction. An example is the last investment made in Jastrzębie by PGNiG Termika Industrial Energy, which already meets the requirements of BAT-POW 2021... [[Voice from the room: One thing.]] So we can build on our resources... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Jan Rulewski: Tusk doesn't bother you?)]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[But...]] Mr. Senator, listen, you'll be aware of how well we're making investments. As for public aid... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There you go.]] State aid issue, third question. The Ministry's information ensures that the records do not go in that direction so that there is a risk that these instruments, these 4 support instruments, will be considered as State aid. I personally, when examining the content of the provisions of this law, also did not find such provisions as would be risky to consider these instruments to be public aid.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u48	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both Senators rapporteurs. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting about what would happen when some collective entities, e.g. government or some companies have already signed contracts with power plants, and what is the mechanism allowing us to withdraw from such an agreement, to change this agreement? Will this agreement be in force? If the senators wanted to explain this mechanism... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u50	Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Augustine. Senators are asking about historical events, referring to 2014, while the provisions of the energy and climate package were adopted in 2008, if I recall correctly, in December 2008. As in any case, they were preceded by decisions of the European Union summit, because that is the order of things. This summit took place in March 2007. Who then approved the decisions of the climate summit on behalf of the Republic of Poland? [[Tusk.]] [[Voice from the room: Tusk.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Well, if not, like this.]] [[Tusk and then Kicker.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, this was a question to the Senators of the rapporteurs, not to the senators sitting in the benches. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Who approved it?]] [[Trouble now...]] Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u53	To be honest, there are elements of economy in this bill, not simple distribution, but one thing is questionable. Namely, the powers which are, however, the source of distribution here, in fact serve not so much distribution as renovation of the energy base, renovation of the power plant. In fact, they were at the plant's disposal to modernise their process, eliminating CO2 reduction. You take it away from these heat plants. You leave them without investment funds in the amount of PLN 2.5 billion. How do you feel about this kind of undertaking? So we leave these heat plants so they can smoke even more. And second question... [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... [[Well, you can, at least you answered your own question. But you're welcome.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[First...]] Yes... Second question. Well, we have a problem, no matter whose problem it is, the problem is that coal is a huge CO2 generator. The question is: why are we bringing coal from Russia, which is a CO2 generator, instead of bringing electricity from Ukraine, from Belarus, from Russia? [[But Germans also coal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u54	But that's not a question for you, Senator. [[...now they're from Russia.]] Well, excuse me. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's over, isn't it? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. The Senators of the rapporteur answer three questions. [[Yes. Mr. Marshal...]] Four because Senator Rulewski asked two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u55	I think I will also answer the first question on behalf of the rapporteur for minorities, because I will quote a specific article that removes any doubts as to the question concerning contracts concluded in the period 1 July 2018 at the end of December this year. The article states this: an energy undertaking operating in the field of electricity trading which, after 30 June 2018, has concluded contracts for the sale of energy with a price or a charge higher than the price or rate of the charge resulting from the last contract in force, shall be required to amend the terms of that contract no later than 1 April 2019 with effect from 1 January 2019. It solves... [[But here, Senator Jackowski has a point...]] It solves... [[Shh...]] It dispels doubts... [[Mr. Senator, you must not speak. You can't tell me.]] The recording of this article is unambiguous. Question two: handouts. Absolutely, Mr. Senator, that's not what you should call it. This is the support of the power plant through efficient cogeneration. As I said already during the report, we adopted at the previous Senate meeting a law which efficient cogeneration... which in general changes the system of support for modernization or the expansion of new power plants. I'm not gonna say it again. This is a very good system. We are also talking in this law about instruments that support such projects both in the area of renewable energy, i.e. green energy, as well as in the area of high-efficiency cogeneration, also using, for example. mining methane, which in the case of hard coal mining is very important because it reduces the risk. [[And then there's the fourth question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Augustine... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but I didn't hear... four?]] [[Yeah, four questions were.]] [[Could you repeat the question, senator? I'm sorry, but I don't...]] [[It's up to your marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u57	The point is that we're bringing in huge amounts of coal from Russia, which, as we know, is the biggest, say, CO2. Question: Can we not and should we not import electricity not only from Russia but also from Ukraine, Belarus and even Norway?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u58	Mr. Senator, this subject was not addressed at the committee meeting, and I am not going to express my personal opinions at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u59	Mr. Senator Augustine, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u60	Indeed, when it comes to self - control, this article was cited there. But also caring about what it's gonna look like... Isn't Senator Jackowski here or is he? [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] Oh, he's here. Mr. Senator, but the concern about how it's gonna look in practice has gone through the questions asked. Namely, Senator Terminski asked a question, because there are different procedures there, it is different for those who continue the agreement, and it is different for those who first enter into an agreement. And there were a number of questions about how to treat it when a government makes a deal with someone new, whether it's a new situation. And it was a question of how to treat it in case, after some time, it once again enters into a contract with the same supplier, whether in such a situation it is a continuation, or whether it is a new supplier. Because depending on how it is treated, there is a completely different course of action. And I admit that Senator Terminski didn't seem to have the answers. Senator Klich's question. Since 2003, energy policy has evolved and each government has dealt with this. The Law and Justice Government, the coalition government, the one from 2005-2007, had, of course, a very difficult decision to make. And it was Lech Kaczyński who agreed to this, not a different shape of the European Union's climate policy in 2007, as well as the climate elements that were included in the Lisbon Treaty. The rest that followed was the consequence of these basic acts. Remember... these older people, those who were already interested in politics back then, remember for sure how alive, how heated the discussion was and how long it took to find compromises, to find allies. It stood on what it stood for. So I think that since we are the heart of Europe, maybe we should beat the same rhythm for others, also for ourselves, so that it is a healthy heart. As far as coal exports are concerned, it was indeed not discussed at the committee meeting. I merely mentioned that coal prices have an impact on the final price of energy and are one of the very important factors that have caused today's difficult situation. And coal from Russia That's what I know from our committee's deliberations, because that's what we asked the Ministry. It is imported for two reasons: firstly, Polish coal is simply not enough, and secondly, this Russian coal is often of better quality and cheaper.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u61	You've already answered, haven't you? Now for another series of questions. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator, of course the rapporteur for the minority, because my previous question was not really answered by the senator. I mean this complex amendment concerning the amount of excise duty and the reduction from PLN 5 to PLN 4.5. Don't you find that irresponsible? Many times here, from the Senate speaker, the Senators of the Civic Platform encouraged us, in fact, without reason, to keep some framework in place so that we could try to safeguard Polish interests, because these are dangerous matters. Don't you really think it's a serious danger? And it's really irresponsible. To propose an amendment that may have an unpredictable impact in the future, because the euro may turn out to be a very volatile rate from day to day? And it's your argument that we can pass a bill every day, if a threshold is exceeded, that seems wrong. The second question is, in effect, caused by what you keep saying about global warming. Out of curiosity, have you ever heard of different views on climate policy and global warming? Have you heard anything about pacific oscillation and its effect on temperature increases? Have you heard anything about independent research on natural 25-year-olds, 30-year cycles, recurring periods? Well, from the '40s to the mid '70s. There were even such opinions that we were threatened with global cooling, that we were threatened with an ice age. And now all of a sudden, we have global warming. Aren't you considering factors that a man simply can't influence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u63	Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u64	I have a question for the representative of the majority of the committee. Mr Senator, you spoke about the fact that the information of the European Commission in December was an assumt to this law, and at the same time you yourself quoted that this law, to which December was the sumptuous act, talks about the effects of 30 June on self-government, is reducing the effects of 30 June. Then the question is: how can the sumpt be from December when it is said 30 June? I have one more question about the date of June 30th. From the local authorities, I have information that there are local governments that have concluded contracts even before 30 June. Well, then, what... Was there a discussion at the committee meeting about what would happen to these local authorities if the law did not include them? This may apply to smaller increases, but they have already been and contracts have been concluded. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Question for both rapporteurs. Well, this revision... The first project came just before Christmas, if I remember correctly, and immediately after Christmas came another, completely different project. Well, I suppose since he's changed in a couple of days, and it's still in the holidays... So I have some concerns about an in-depth analysis of what is written there and about the effects of this novel on other laws. This law introduces certain legal mechanisms that may be, at first sight, contrary to the provisions of the Commercial Companies Code. Why? Since the boards of companies which have already submitted tariffs, specifying how they will operate next year, are obliged to renegotiate these agreements downwards, which, in my opinion, may be considered to be detrimental to those companies under certain circumstances. And now I would like to ask both of you: have these issues been resolved and clarified by the Ministry? And in this respect, I would also like to learn more about this obligation of companies to change contracts already concluded. President of the URE today at the committee meeting... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...he said The last three words It is expected that there is an avalanche of legal disputes. How, then, did it come to the conclusion that this is sufficient to make it actually effective, since the President of the URE himself said that it would be processes that would possibly suspend the changes to these agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u68	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for Senator Gadawada. Did the committee's meeting mention what would happen after a year? I ask because this legal presentation is extremely temporary. I'm already abstracting my motivation. Is Mr. Senator or someone else able to predict what's going to happen next year when this temporary bill ceases to apply? Should we expect giant price increases, or will there be another solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Gadawada. Did the committee's meeting mention what was going on with the money that is being paid for CO2 emissions into the atmosphere, i.e. are those who say it is a form of environmental tax that the European Union is collecting? What's physically happening to the money? I am asking because this is, above all, the source of an increase in electricity production prices. I would like the senator to explain this so that the citizens know where these increased production costs come from, the generation of energy next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u71	Thank you very much. Please, Senator, the rapporteur for the majority. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal, I'll start with the first question. The information that reached the ministry, and the actions that were assumptum, as I read here, have been implemented since December 5th. Well, as I have already put it, as I informed the High House, on that day the Ministry of Energy received information from the European Commission, which published a communication of consent to assign such a pool of allowances as an additional tranche for sale on the European EEX stock exchange in 2019 on behalf of Poland. Therefore, this date, then, began to prepare instruments which allow to reduce the negative impact of the rise in energy prices on our market in order to keep companies operating in Poland competitively, and also to ensure that this increase in prices does not affect households. Are there local governments that made contracts before 30 June? I don't have that kind of information. I don't think it's before that date. As I say, this is my opinion. Such agreements, which were detrimental to local government units, could have been concluded. The price increase in the newly concluded contracts was noted after July this year, 2018 and these are covered by this Act and, as I have already said, with effect from 1 January these agreements will be verified. Yeah, actually, the 3112 Seym printing was kind of enriched, so I'm gonna use that term, the 3112-A. And, as the Minister said at the committee meeting, this self-correction identified mechanisms, instruments that set out the payment of price differences and mechanisms allowing for the implementation of this green investment scheme, the national green investment system. Together these programmes, these two instruments supporting trading and distribution companies include... That's at the level of PLN 5 billion... that was the third question. Four: what's going to happen next year? I believe that the law which was adopted today by the Sejm and is being prosecuted in the Senate is a law containing a set of different actions. On the one hand, they allow to eliminate the price difference between contracts concluded and contracts... This means the difference between energy prices before June 2018. On the other hand, this law contains many very good solutions. I will only say a few, which allow manufacturing units to adapt to the emission levels set out in European Union standards for environmental protection, in particular in the Commission Implementing Decision of 2017, exactly in July this year, establishing conclusions on the best access of BAT techniques. Therefore, this law allows us to implement investments that will go far ahead, allowing us to apply technologies and solutions that will adapt our entire heating and energy sector to BAT requirements, which are quite strict. In addition, there are many instruments to support investments in renewable energy installations, in the cogeneration units I have already mentioned. So that it is a support system which, if also regulations are introduced in the first half of the year, because this law states that the Minister responsible for Energy, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Environment, will introduce regulations that will enable these projects to be implemented... This practice can allow this law to be implemented at the end of next year as a law that can function in the coming years and which can be a good instrument to stimulate the development of our energy. But that wasn't discussed at the committee meeting, that's my opinion. What happens to the influence measures... with CO2? Well, these four support instruments are being implemented, mostly the investments I was talking about, the national green investment system. [[Excuse me, what about my question about the president of the URE?]] Please? [[I asked the question of your doubts about the effectiveness of...]] Yes, yes, Mr. Senator. Of course, there was information and the position of the Energy Regulatory Office was presented, the Energy Regulatory Office presented its position and some concerns at the committee meeting. But we must also take into account that in European legislation, there is a separation between the Minister of Energy and the regulator in the legislation transferred to our legal order, and the regulator can therefore express such concerns. I don't have that kind of fear. I think that the Ministry of Energy shows by this law that these support instruments can be quickly reduced in the form of excise duties and transitional charges, including a little longer time, because they require regulations, in the form of these other instruments... I think, but it's also my opinion that the president of the URE, a little bit to heighten, presents these concerns. But once again, I stress that this is just my opinion. I believe that the President of URE has the right to present his position.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u73	Thank you. Mr Senator rapporteur for the minority. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u74	I'm gonna go back to those rates again. I don't have much to say except to stress that we're varying these rates. And that is the main substance of this amendment. I think the currency is pretty stable, and it's going to last for a long time. But if it doesn't hold, then the barrier of 5 zlotys can also break, Mr. Senator, at any time. So that the danger of this bill will be accompanied, either way. We can agree that the closer we get to this border, it's bigger, but not that it's gone because it is. So this is where we don't change the mechanism. Besides, of course you can... This used to be trained on fuel in Poland, or excise duty eventually leads to lower prices or does not lead. Many felt that the lower the tax share in the final price, the lower the final price. So you could say it's also in defense of this. But perhaps the most important thing, Mr. Senator, on this amendment was that the ministry could not convincingly, at least in the Senate, describe where the 5 zlotys came from. At least we refer to an EU reality, which is one or half of the euro. The senator in the report referred to this, but this was not the result of the committee's deliberations. With regard to climate issues and different views on the subject, of course, today's views vary from one to another. I think even scientists need to be more critical than ever. Sometimes when I hear people with professorial titles, even in parliament, I grab my head. So we're talking about climate issues about a definitely dominant view. It seems that he is so dominant today that there is no longer a country to raise these issues. Sometimes some newly elected leaders temporarily return to this subject. But I think it's climate change. All you have to do today is go outside to see what a beautiful winter it is. They are already so obvious that it is worth listening to professionals. After the climate summit, I listened to representatives of our State Forests, who showed pictures of the devastation in Polish forests as a result of the storm and drought. They're drying out water-like beech and spruce on a massive scale. Of course, you can argue, Mr. Senator, what is the climate share, but I don't think anyone's questioning that it is and that it's significant anymore. There must be other factors that affect his change. It is the dominant view that the pace of these changes is decided by us ourselves. And Senator Pociej has raised a very important point. She was raised by your senator, and by other lawyers at the committee meeting. Well, at this rate, the bill has been prepared... Mr. Marshal pointed out and asked how it was possible that in one week the bill had two pages and a week later there was an amendment on 18 pages. It's just embarrassing the whole law-making process. It's not even worth asking if it was consulted and thoughtful. As soon as Senator Terminski started asking in detail about specific records, it turned out that they were difficult to defend clearly. And if so, I understand that their application can be challenged when the rules are freely interpreted. Because if Senator Terminski has shown that it is possible, by law, to take into account 4 different sizes, it is a matter of which size it is really necessary to stick, and who, on a good cause, will decide that. The question of penalties for those applying the law was raised. Well, they're tall. There was even a proposal for an amendment to change, to reduce these penalties. Anyway... It was also a question of whether the offices were prepared to carry out their duties. From what we've heard from the URE representative, they don't really have any workpower, and they don't have any money for it either. I asked if he was prepared, if there was money, if there were people... Because the responsibility of the Account Holder is even greater than the responsibility of the URE, he's really supposed to watch over... to manage this process. And I didn't get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u75	Thank you very much. Question... [[I'm still... supplemental.]] Mr. Senator, do you have anything to add? Yes? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u76	I'd still like to fill in, Mrs. Marshal. 'Cause I didn't really explain it. The answer to the question. This law, which we are adopting, allows changes to be made in the Act of 12 June 2015 on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme. These changes In my opinion, very good changes allow for the allocation of the funds that we obtain from the sale, through auctions, of emission allowances. 20% These funds can be spent on the fight against low emissions, and 80% can be spent on the fight against low emissions. affects the Payment Fund for Differences Prices, i.e. to this instrument, which will be able to really eliminate these differences resulting from energy prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u77	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the representative of the committee. Well, about three years ago, I was here. And we were all here. A witness to a discussion in which the opposition tried to force us to explain ourselves that we were giving the poor to every other child 500+. Well, we were almost forced to do that. Now I feel like a déjà vu. We are trying to prevent expensive households from paying horrendous electricity bills, and we are trying to prevent a possible pro-inflationary factor, because electricity growth is also higher inflation. And you're trying to force us to explain ourselves. Mr. Senator, what is this really about? Explain it to me, if you understand this process.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Please. [[I'll explain it to the senator later.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u80	Thank you. But here I would like to refer to what... Because I was a little shocked by what the Senator rapporteur of the majority said a second ago. Mr. Senator, that's why there's an independent regulator like the President of the Regulatory Office to speak. And here is exactly the same road as the one that at one point led you to question the statement of the first Supreme Court President, who was also not to speak about legislative changes... Well, he said, he presented a very far - reaching fear. And I think it's too easy for the senator to get over that fear. My last question concerns this calculation, the 9 billion. I'd like to know... Because the hard numbers are the following. Well, in Poland there is a demand for 128TWh. If we compare the prices contracted a year ago, even a year ago, on the TGE, on the Trade Energy Exchange, we will see that prices for 2018 amounted to PLN 177 for 1 KWh and for 2019 also a year ago... [[For 1 MWh.]] Yeah, for 1 MWh. ...was PLN 183 for 1 MWh. Well, let's make a simple calculation. If today on this energy exchange we are dealing with amounts of about 293 PLN, then it is more than 100 PLN difference. After multiplying this by demand in Poland, this results in more than 13 billion. I'd like to know if the government was explaining in any way what the calculations are, that we're going to have to pay 9 billion, not 13 billion. Well, these are pretty simple numbers. And I would also like to say that since our parliamentary discussion on this issue started, prices have gone up by about 0.5%. , or maybe even 1%.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u81	Thank you very much. Are there any more... Oh, Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u82	I have the same question as Senator Czerwinski, except I address them to Senator Augustine. Mr. Senator... [[Senator Augustine...]] I have a question for Senator Augustine. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have the same question as Senator Czerwinski. What is it? Because we're running a supersonic plane. We're investigating a bill that looked completely different this morning, which was changed this morning. Early in the morning it was made up of two pages, at the moment it consists of a dozen. Previously, there was talk of spending from the state budget of PLN 3.5 billion, now it is talking about 9 billion. The senators have, of course, explained the components of this $9 billion. Actually, there's a fourth reading going on right now. In one day there will be 6 readings if we add up 3 seym and 3 senate readings. Something like that hasn't happened before. For 3 years, the Law and Justice Government has not made any changes to the demonopolising market for energy distributors and has withdrawn Poland from this path to modernise the energy mix of the road that we have followed for several previous years. By blocking, for example, the development of renewable energy. And in addition, we are proceeding over a law which is only for one year, the year of election, 2019. So I'd like to ask the senator what this is all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u83	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The first question was to compare this legislative solution to support 500+. Indeed, the point is that in a situation where we see a very serious threat, which not only affects households, citizens, but also covers the broadly understood economic potential of Poland, we react very quickly. And regardless of whether you like it or not, if you need it, we are able to work hard at this time to adopt good solutions that will allow you to look at it from the point of view of the interests of Poland, the interests of Poles, the interests of our companies. And therefore, these solutions, which have a very wide range and very fluently introduce us into this quite difficult energy market and on the burden arising not only from directives, but also from these energy and heating events in Poland, will make sure that households in Poland will not feel such a significant burden and energy prices will not increase. And I think that's our look, which, once again, I'm gonna emphasize very strongly, is that reference... And that's what's really different about us. Well, Dear Senators, the difference is that we, if there is such a need, even taking broad criticism, are able to accept and implement legal solutions that eliminate problems and make citizens feel safe, may in some way be citizens of a country where, if such situations occur, they know that the government and parliament are able to react quickly to such adverse cost-effective phenomena. This is the first case. Does the Energy Regulatory Office, as an independent regulator, have the right to express its own opinion? That's right. As rapporteur, as the senator said, I didn't slip through it. I just told you what happened at the committee meeting. And I strongly emphasized that I do not want to refer to it because the regulator has the right to express its position. And that's all there is to it. As for the increase of PLN 100, so on average... Well, I wouldn't share the opinion that this is an average of PLN 100 and that these 128 TWh in terms of about PLN 12 or 13 billion, because already some energy-intensive customers benefit from a reduced rate of excise duty, so we can't assume in such a zero-one way that so many times this much. We have adopted instruments that will have a significant impact. And we're going to evaluate what's going to happen in the first quarter of the second quarter. On 1 April we will already know how many of these renegotiated contracts have been signed and for what amount they are. Therefore, This is my opinion, I think the Minister will still support them with his detailed calculations, to which I do not have access now, the Ministry of Energy has more, more knowledge The calculations we take, as we believe, or at least I do, are more precise than the estimates we take on the basis that I say general information. Of course, this fourth issue was not addressed directly to me, it was presented as an argument. Why doesn't Poland lead the demonopolization of energy? Well, I just want to say one basic sentence: the whole of Western Europe is, in short, a full state monopoly. After all, in the hands of the French State Treasury are Areva and EDF. So in short, the whole French energy sector, almost 100%. It's in the hands of the state. The same is true of our western neighbours. Therefore, since we have 4 main Polish entities plus 1 western company, an operator operating in Warsaw, we cannot talk about monopolization. If I were to express my opinion here, I would say that it is actually the opposite: we should continue to take action in order to perhaps create two strong groups of these four energy groups in the future. But this is, let's say, a certain future and a decision. I believe that this is absolutely not going towards monopolization. The key issue is investment in distributed energy sources and in distributed energy and heating sources. This is, I think, the right direction in the future. As far as demonopolization is concerned, I think it should be the other way around, but that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I answer Senator Klich's question, answering Senator Czerwinski's question in a way. And me, and Mr. Senator Libicki, and Mr. Senator Kleina. Thickly over six months ago at different moments Also here, from this speaker, on the occasion of other laws, we signalled what had just happened and then expressed our concern to prevent the negative effects of rising energy prices. And we're expressing it today, too. I am of the opinion that in this term of office even greater mistakes are made than previously in terms of climate protection. And what was done here in the RES case is calling for revenge to heaven. So we are in favour of protecting people, but the way to do this is above all to reduce this distance, two and a half times more emissions than on average in the European Union. So that the only true way Not for the tricks we're doing here, because it's kind of a trick. It is fair to work every year and to issue these resources from the powers for what they are intended to do. And every government has had a lot on its conscience here for a long time, because this money went into the budget and was spent on various things, not just on climate issues, not just on energy modernisation. What is now being done concerns this special pot, and not, let's call it normal and everyone else. And I'm afraid this will continue. Because this concerns the fifty-million allowances that are, let's call it overdue and which, with the agreement of the Commission of 5 December, we will be able to liquidate, so to speak. It's about the money, the Minister explained it. Mr. Senators, we want this law to protect people and give them a chance to upgrade their energy. This is our role in the Senate. We have no constitutional right to renounce it, and we have been deprived of it, because all of our discussion and amendments are absolutely pointless because there is no time for anything. And for not having that time, the government is to blame. There's no doubt about it. We've talked about this and we need to talk about it. It's just like creating a law in a very sensitive area that's prospectively important. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much...]] Do we have the right to ask if these mechanisms are sufficient to protect companies and people? If there are such imprecise records that threaten processes, as people claim to know better about energy than any of us here in this room, it means that in this recovery room it is necessary to ask carefully whether these are permanent solutions. We are still asking: why only 2019? If there are other mechanisms, what are they? Is that in line with European Union law? Is that consistent with the constitution? We have a duty to ask, and it is not an expression of our lack of concern to protect people and prevent inflation, it is just an expression of our concern to do it well and effectively and in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This time I have a question for a minority representative à about concern. If, according to your intention, we were to vote on minority proposals, this would mean that the law could not enter into force before 1 January, because the Sejm could not deal with it before 1 January 2019. [[Why not?]] [[Why not?]] [[Tomorrow maybe.]] Take it easy. [[Voice from the room: Now you could...]] [[We're here.]] May I? [[Ladies and gentlemen, the Senator rapporteur for the minority will certainly respond.]] Exactly. [[You don't have to do the senator.]] If we can pass on the conclusions... If we present to the Sejm the conclusions of the minority and the Sejm... Members have already gone home... [[They'll gather.]] It will then not be possible for this law to enter into force on 1 January or earlier. And that means it's going to go backwards. As it is in the article implementing it. The question is this: have you taken into account, when submitting these minority proposals, that it will be easier, at least theoretically, to try to move this law backwards if it is adopted and announced after 1 January 2019? Did such awareness accompany you when submitting these proposals? Why am I asking this? E.g. also because these minority proposals are, so I would have it He called it, quite unorthodox. They don't change much about this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u90	Thank you. Well, maybe I'm here to see Senator Augustine, too, because this morning, when I was going to the Senate meeting, and I read the bill, it contained two pages. Now that I got it at the hearing, she's got 13 pages. You have said, Mr Senator, about the amendments, about the amendments of minorities, about the fact that the Legislative Bureau has also tabled amendments. So the question is, has any amendment that has been tabled been accepted by the government? If she did not receive such approval, then the question is: did the Minister speak about the amendment when we could expect an amendment to this law? 'Cause I don't think there's any doubt about that. And did the Ministry therefore put forward any strategy? What's next? What are the changes? What's it gonna look like? Do you remember our discussion about emissions when it comes to low emissions, windmills, heights... 10, 5, 5 times the height, etc... That's where you voted against. So the question is, is there a strategy, a position... then what? Because it's just a temporary solution to the problem for a few months until the election. But then what is the government's strategic position on what to do next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u92	The Senator rapporteur of the minority referred to scientists, excellent energyists. If you'd be kind enough to mention at least three names of these scientists...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u93	Thank you very much. Please, the rapporteur for the minority. 'Cause I think most of the questions were for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u94	I'll answer to Senator Czerwinski. There was more time to take a good look at these amendments. A little more. Because you should know that these major amendments I'm not talking about those from our Legislative Office, these are the amendments tabled by our group already in the Sejm. But they didn't want to discuss it anymore. And that is the answer to Senator Flork's question: no amendment has received support. And from the Minister's comments, when we asked what in 2020 and beyond, it was indirectly that, depending on the changing situation, it would be necessary to return to this mechanism. Because certainly the second such gift in the form of the possibility of selling an extra such a large pool of allowances will not be. So there's no doubt that this has to look different. At least the power of this fund must look different. That's why... I have no doubt that we'll probably get back to that, perhaps not once, Senator. The discussion has shown the weaknesses of this bill. I am convinced that it will show all its shortcomings in application and we will quickly update it. About those names... Let me say this: the bibliography of Professor Popkiewicz's books contains several dozen references to very obsessive, large studies on this subject. I don't want to be a climate specialist here, Senator. Rather, I tend to believe the Holy Father to believe the prevailing views. Please? [[You have to believe in God.]] [[Excuse me, may I ask you another question, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u95	Yes, please. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u96	I'll ask you a question. 'Cause I also liked your view of the climate that no one ever questioned, except for some elected country leaders. Have you ever heard of countries such as the United States of America, China, India? I know they're such micruses of this world, but I don't know if you're aware that they're denying the Kyoto agreements that they The misruses of this world They deny in their operation what you say, which you consider obvious, revealed and undisputed, climate change.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u97	Senator, first of all, I did not use such a word that something is revealed, I used to say that everything is subject to discussion. So please don't put those words in my mouth because it's not true. As far as the United States is concerned, I can say that Barack Obama's governments have been very strong in supporting efforts to reduce CO2 emissions, and of those announcements that Donald Trump has made, even 1/10 have not been implemented. But the representatives of the United States to the climate summit in Katowice, not the highest rank, came, participated and signed under the final conclusions, which means that this change, yes, is, it is difficult not to notice, but it is not total.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u98	Good. Thank you very much. Do you have anything else to add? [[No.]] No. Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the rapporteur for the majority... Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kazimierz Klein, right? There you go. Now is your time to ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u99	I, Mrs. Marshal, have a question for Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[However.]] Yes. [[A series of questions.]] Because there were many accusations in plenary that politicians who ruled Poland many years ago were responsible for this high price of energy... This concerned Prime Minister Tusk, Prime Minister Kaczyński and President Kaczyński. Depending on which side of the Senate the questions were asked. But at the committee meeting, I think I don't know if the senator could remind us of that. It pointed to this rather important issue, that is, that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mr Maciej Bando, drew attention to one of the very fundamental problems connected with this high price, that is to say, the collusive electricity producers. Was this at the committee meeting raised as one of the main reasons for such a radical increase in electricity price in recent months? We're... Senator Augustine has already pointed out here that we have talked about this before, but it is the President of the Office, whatever it is to say, the state, today in office, that draws attention to this problem. Perhaps one of the main reasons for such a radical price increase is that there has been a conspiracy of mainly state-owned energy companies? Mr. President Bando referred this case to the D.A.'s office, accusing a price conspiracy. Maybe that's what's causing all this. It's not just that. That's not what I'm saying. [[Please, Senator...]] There is no supervision of the State Treasury over energy companies. Even Minister Tchórzewski at some point said that as a result of simple operations there are 1 billion savings in energy companies. This is, after all, a rational way. If these companies were to function normally, such situations would not be possible. But check this out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u100	Good. Thank you very much, Senator. Do any of you senators have any more questions for the senators of the rapporteurs? If not, we'll close this part. I don't see any calls. [[There isn't.]] Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer and we'll move on to... [[Voice from the room: Very good question.]] ...the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u101	Mr. Senator, I've been asking about all the factors that affect the price increase. Surely management, effective control of energy companies, which have one owner and actually through one owner monopolizes the market, is necessary. Law and Justice in their proposal to prevent price increases here in this speaker defended the view that one of the methods to do this is to put everything on the market So there's no collusion to make it transparent to be on the stock market. We argued that this solution was not consistent because it shuts down a huge part of the market for a long time, the part in which the contracts were already concluded. Now, in the amendments, we propose that we go back to this and include everyone in the stock exchange system. Well, it can be said, since in energy companies, Mr. Senator, there has already been a change in the third, and sometimes the fourth, suit of executives during that time, it shows what it looks like to manage and control companies. Sometimes, how you read, who comes from where and by whom you are recommended, it feels like it's more about dividing the spoils than about keeping an honest watch over our interests. But that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u102	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this project... [[Mrs. Marshal, the question is...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal, the question has been asked, but in my opinion, I am the Senator Rapporteur, and I must refer to it. The answer was not entirely complete. I would just like to say that there was talk of the President of the URE taking action and referring the application to the prosecutor's office, yes, but... [[Because of the price conspiracy, right?]] No... [[With suspicions...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, allow me to provide information from the committee's sitting, not from the speculations that are being presented here somewhere. Mr. President... excuse me, a representative of the Energy Regulatory Office has informed that yes, such a request was addressed by the President to the prosecution, and because of the proceedings he has not presented. For the sake of the case under investigation No more extensive information. The Minister of Energy also referred to this and said explicitly that companies that operate on the market are listed companies and non-legal interference is simply impossible and far not indicated. I would also like to conclude this discussion, which is very good discussion and substance, to point out that, dear Senators, this is our common Europe, we have set common objectives and we want to reduce this distance. I think that our intention, our goal, is to carry out this process of restructuring the energy sector based on our capabilities and taking into account that all the actions we are taking will also relate to the situation with which we are colliding. We say to Europe that we accept all the rigors, we accept all the conclusions in a real and possible way, while we are saying that we do not agree to decarbonisation. We agree to the use of modern technologies Cogeneration, polygeneration, which allows the production of modern zero-emission or low-emission fuels, including hydrogen, synthesis gas or methanol chemical products. In this direction, we should and will be heading and these instruments will also allow for this. We say common goals, but our path enables, interacts and somehow reflects our environmental and technological capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u104	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law was introduced by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Tadeusz Skobel. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government has prepared a bill for Poles for the next year and for the next years, because it's only certain... As far as excise duty and certain elements are concerned, they go further than this year. The Act will secure both individual recipients and local authorities, hospitals, as well as workplaces. Energy price level not lower than in 2018... You ask why it took so long. Dear people, as you will look at the evolution of CO2 emission allowances prices, this is one of these basic elements, you will notice that only after half of the year there was a significant increase. Of course, there were other issues that I spoke about at the meeting of the Sejm Committee about coal prices, which were also higher prices during that period. We must tell ourselves one thing: the prices of Polish coal are significantly lower than the prices of this coal, which is imported, especially if we consider the ports of ARA and that... That's the difference, let's say, about 11,17 euros. That's the difference of 1 t of coal. So that the fact that energy companies have engaged in helping mines and have signed long-term contracts also has a positive dimension in this respect. However, the price of emissions has accelerated so much that there was no chance of that... We're gonna do this one time... Do you remember Mr Tchórzewski's speech to Mr Cañete, who once again performed, once again performed... Slightly these prices have dropped. We asked the European Commission to intervene. That's the way it really was. To see what's going on on this stock exchange. However, it seems that the problem on the stock market results from something else. It follows that there were financial elements there. It's already a different market, it's a financial market, it's a speculative market. That's what you have to say to yourself. Therefore, these prices, which directly affect electricity prices in Poland, have increased so much. We've been looking for ways to find money without significantly reducing the budget to create compensation. You remember that the Ministry of Energy held a press conference at which we proposed compensation for individual customers in the G tariff and for small and medium-sized enterprises. That's all the money we had at the time from the unused five billion zlotys in terms of CO2 emissions. The government has come to the conclusion that the case needs to be dealt with more widely and that for all recipients... That's where the excise duty came in, and that's where the transitional fee came in. And we believe that this project, which we are presenting to you today, is the best project that protects all Poles for the next year, and in the following years, at least in these 2 cases, it is also a significant element in terms of reducing the burden on electricity costs. We're gonna be watching what's going to happen in a year, making more decisions. For now, this project, which we are presenting, is, as we believe, the only and best, when it comes to acting on the Polish market, and gives the Poles, the people of this country, the safety of functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u106	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u107	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr Karski in Polsat News said something like this: electricity supply contracts signed under old conditions must be annulled by energy companies. That's what he said on TV. Today or yesterday. Any President of the Treasury company who fails to comply with the order of the Prime Minister will be dismissed, said the politician of Law and Justice, Mr Euro MP. I would like to ask you to comment on this and I would also like you to talk about what the President is going to do, who will consider that such a change of contract threatens the interests of the company. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you. Maybe I'll answer right away, keep it up, if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u108	Minister, no, we're gonna block. Okay? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Good.]] Three questions each. You're welcome, Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go. [[Why don't you answer the first question first, Mr. Minister, 'cause then they gather together and they all blend together.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: If you don't mind, then...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u109	Thank you. Minister, you started your short speech with the wording that the government has passed the bill. Indeed, the government has passed the bill. We do not know, we are trying to figure out why it is only today that we are investigating why the government, knowing that significant increases in energy prices are threatening us, did not submit the bill to us in advance so that we can work with respect to the standards of legislation and, above all, give the president time to work properly and to think about it, although the president, of course, said publicly a few days ago that he was ready to sign the bill at any time, although he had not yet known its assumptions. The bill was changing because today the government introduced an autocorrection that extends the project by several pages. [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] I would like to ask the Minister about the procedure for consulting the President's office if they were, and if they were, what was the formula in which they took place. I'm asking because I can't imagine the president blindly saying he's gonna sign any bill, regardless of its quality. And one more thing. Has the Act been consulted? It is a government project, subject to certain standards With the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u110	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u111	I have a question, so to speak, as a curiosity, to be honest. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12 is said to be the income of this fund, from which these price differences will be passed on... There are sources of revenue. Well, many sources are obvious sources, but there is such a source of voluntary contributions and donations. Could the Minister give an example of who could voluntarily make a contribution or a gift to this fund? [[The presidents.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u112	Thank you very much. [[Maybe some kind of voluntary definition, maybe...]] Thank you very much. Your vote, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u113	Yes. I'm answering the first question. Of course, I'm not commenting on what politicians have said in this respect, Senator, but I'm going to refer to this case. We need to be aware that companies don't lose. The companies will receive compensation for the reduced amount of electricity that will be the subject of new contracts concluded. So there's no damage to the company here. Therefore, there is no problem that the senator told you about, arguing that there will be resignations and all the other things. What are the penalties for that? The law provides for this, and it is only in this respect that I can refer to it. In any case, this is not a damage to the companies. If there was a situation that there were other records that there was no compensation, then I'm sure it would be. What was the consultation? I was talking about the government project. And let me remind you one thing, what I was talking about at the committee meeting, but somehow it wasn't completely noticed. When you look at the seym website, you will see that the first project is agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the one with the letter A, the print no. 3112-A has no attached position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But this is a government project and in the manner appropriate for government work was determined by all departments, also by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If it is not in writing today, then it is to be completed, but something like this must have happened because the Ministry also made such decisions. As for the government committee and the government, whether or not she was the subject of this particular undertaking... Dear Members, including not, but I met with the government and local government committee not so long ago, maybe about 2 weeks ago, and talked about issues related to the proposals of solutions that can be considered. Well, we have agreed on this committee of government and local government that a joint team will be set up to explore the best options for these issues. It wasn't simple and obvious. I myself asked, I said that if local governments have solutions ready, we will gladly look at them and use them. It is not simple because we are entering into public procurement law and the question of finding the right provision in public procurement law to terminate this contract is important. Of course, there's usually a point there. I say: usually, because I don't know all the records. It's like an important social interest. And then I got a list of about 270 local governments. When it comes to what we are talking about, whether later or earlier than 30 June, it turns out that these problems, which are in local governments, generally affect the second half of the year. Hence our proposal that this should be 30 June when it comes to electricity. When it comes to distribution, there's another dimension of time. [[But you didn't answer the question.]] [[Voice from the room: You didn't answer my question.]] [[Thank you very much, sir, but one more question for Senator Borowski.]] [[Voluntary contributions.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] As far as the President is concerned, this bill, which is currently in force, I do not know such facts that he has been consulted. But you know that Minister Tchórzewski was with the President and talked about these issues earlier. [[And me.]] [[Senator Borowski's question.]] [[Voluntary contributions.]] Voluntary contributions. Dear Sir, there is such a thing as voluntary contributions in all such financial structures. I can't tell you what they're going to be like today, but this is a typical record that appears in these kinds of projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u115	I would like to ask you a question about an issue that has not yet been discussed or asked. Namely, you protect the state, and rightly, the population, inhabitants, including those supplied with warm water. And it so happens that the cost of warm water is also dependent on the rights, of course on the cost of coal, because generally warm water is generated by carbon. And the question is, there's nothing in this bill about it. Although the changes in hot water prices are in tariffs and are controlled by URE, my question is: why is there no mention of the need to protect these prices?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u116	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, I asked that question, but then there was quite a rush to finish quickly, and I didn't get an answer. And the problem is Article. 6. But before I tell Art. 6, I would like to say that we all stressed at the committee meeting Also I personally, as I say, are pleased that the price of energy will be maintained, that there will not be this huge increase next year, because this, however, serves all: and citizens, and entrepreneurs. So it doesn't raise my doubts about what I was talking about in public and anyone else. The fact that we are asking about these problems is rather due to the concern that all this should be done well and that there should be no doubt about how to implement it in practice. And now this article. 6. He says that if an entrepreneur signed an agreement e.g. in November or even December and agreed to this higher price because it was placed under a wall I even mentioned this at the previous Senate meeting, where there was no debate on the subject, but I mentioned this. It will then be restored to him the previous price he had this year before he signed it at a higher price. But it's an art. 6 unfortunately is not precise in this matter. He says that the price will be set, and this must be done by 1 April, but not with regard to the prices that this trader had in the contract, but with regard to the prices that were derived from the price lists. And the prices resulting from the price list were generally significantly higher than the prices on which entrepreneurs signed contracts for 2018, usually by 20%. Does that mean... The point is to be clear here. It seems to me that there should be a clear interpretation of this provision, because point 1 of Article. 6 is kind of optimistic that they return to the price for which they had signed contracts in 2018, but point 2 sounds unfortunately worse. Could we have a clear view in this regard that there will be an obligation for distributors to return to contracts that were signed with traders?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u119	Minister, to the question at the committee meeting, why so late, you replied that the certificates were released so late, on 5 December. I would therefore like to ask you the question: who was releasing these certificates or the European Union or the Ministry of Finance or any other institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u120	Thank you very much! Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u121	Hot water. I'm gonna go back to warm water because that's what the senator raised. Dear Sirs, this law does not regulate the issue of hot water, although it certainly has its meaning. As we looked at how hot water is tariffed or valued, it turned out that in Poland it is really done in very different ways. But we don't do hot water right now. It's a law on electricity, about energy prices, not about hot water. This law will certainly have an impact here, because if certain heating elements are electric, the price of electricity will certainly have an impact on this. But it is not a law on regulating the issue of hot water in Poland. The question was how this would be regulated in terms of these prices, how contracts would be terminated. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not such a simple matter, i.e. agreements are not uniform. It is not such a question that it can be said that they will be so clearly resolved and re-created. The agreements contain certain conditions and the question of the termination of these agreements is a matter of the will of the parties. And there's a lot of work on every contract like this, a lot of work. We realized that these are tens of thousands of agreements that we will have to sit on and which we will have to re-examine. But we think it's worth the effort, which is to make it happen. As far as distribution is concerned, there will be distribution tariffs, the one from the previous year, i.e. from 2018, because they are still in force in this respect. As far as electricity prices are concerned, in the Regulation You've got it written down there. The detailed rules for determining this price, electricity prices, will be provided. The question was who was releasing CO2 allowances. Dear Members, of course, with regard to the sources of funding, there is nothing to hide that this is a very large programme. This is 9 billion PLN. We have estimated that from unused CO2 emission allowances we can have about PLN 5 billion, while the European Union is releasing them. And for us to achieve that... I will admit that there have been many visits to Brussels, many talks have been conducted in a very delicate way so that we can actually get this. Once we were sure that there was an agreement between the Union that our powers were included in the CO2 sales schedule, we could only say publicly: yes, we have money, we can afford it, we can... And then we proposed this first option, this option with compensation for households and for small and medium-sized enterprises. We thought these were the two most vulnerable groups in our community. Small and medium-sized enterprises because price and bread are important and everything these small and medium-sized enterprises produce. Then we could afford it, and that's the kind of program we've prepared. The government said he wasn't enough, that we wanted to look at it more widely, so we proposed more... And what you have today is this dimension of this broader view. But, of course, it involves excise duty, it involves a transitional fee. And it's only with the resources from these 2 financial sources that we can cope with the whole program.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u122	Thank you very much. Senator Klein wants to ask. But briefly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u123	Just a little bit. Minister, as a rule... Just so we're clear here. Because we must somehow inform our citizens. So in general, as a rule, small entrepreneurs will have the prices they had this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u124	The ones they had last year. However, I would like to draw your attention. for one case. There is also the question of how this price will be determined: from the average price that has already been partly determined there, and in its entirety it will be defined in the Regulation, which we are indicating. We want to make this dependent on energy prices on the market in certain periods of time. I'm talking about the stock market. That would translate into real electricity prices. Dear Members, you must also remember that many contracts have been concluded for 2 or 3 years. Those deals... If we look at it and treat it in the same way, without referring to current prices, from 2018, we would have crazy differences in maintaining these volumes resulting from the two- or three-year contracts previously concluded. It's a really big difference. [[Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u125	But does that mean I'm sorry. However, the prices for entrepreneurs can increase in the next year?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u126	No, prices can't go up. [[Well, that's...]] This record was clearly invoked several times. They can't grow. [[Okay.]] Nevertheless, as I said... And, ladies and gentlemen, look at one more thing. Because that's what we say... You are critical of the companies of the Treasury. I will remind you that, first of all, these are stock companies, second of all, we are not, as the Treasury, the sole owner, and this is the way to look at it, and third of all... I will tell you that I recently had a conversation about energy prices in Warsaw. Innogy is a company outside our supervision. We asked about the increase in energy prices they were planning in their scope. They pointed to about 12.5%. I do not know if the country that lives in Warsaw has already received new bills with such a price proposition. But what we're talking about applies to everyone. And we also cared about one more thing. Dear country, the companies selling electricity are about 119. Of this you have 4 major companies of the Treasury plus PGNiG. Well, maybe five more, Orlen's selling, a couple more of those other big companies. But what we're talking about here concerns everyone. It's about everyone, like I said. Compensation, contracts, all these issues that we are talking about concern everyone. If we had not done so, we would have led to the situation that more than 100 electricity companies would probably have been unable to withstand this price pressure. That's the situation. We wanted to bet on the level of all those who sell electricity, and the smaller ones, those smaller trading companies, and the biggest ones that are within our scope of influence in the supervision of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u127	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is asked by Senator Przemysław Terminski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u128	Minister, I'm not going back to my committee questioning any more, because if anyone wants to hear it, they can go back. I'd like to deepen Senator Kleina's question. Because Senator Kleina was generally referring to the G tariff. Like Art. 6 we will refer to the article. 5, then we have some kind of reference system, because any tariffs exist. But if we go to fare B, we don't even have a fare outside of the backup operator. There's, you can say, as many tariffs as the contracts were made. And now my question. Because according to the law, we are to go back to the records, attention, applied on 30 June. Well, 50,000 different records could have been used on June 30th. Depending on who negotiated the agreement, that was the clause under tariff B. And now you... This is the first question: how do you want to settle this issue here? And the second question is about the regulation you mentioned. Because it's a very interesting topic. Energy will flow according to these new tariffs in 3 days, maybe 4. From the first month, in three days. The obligation to pay invoices under the new energy prices will appear somewhere in early February. Because that's the delay in issuing invoices. And my question is: when can we expect this regulation and how are entrepreneurs to behave today, who will get higher bills at the beginning of February? Are they not supposed to pay them or are they supposed to pay them? They're supposed to wait for compensation? Who's gonna get... How are you going to settle this compensation in time so that energy companies do not charge the costs of entrepreneurs, as it were before they received the appropriate resources from you, from us, from the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u129	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u130	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to return to the subject that was in the previous part of our discussion in the questions to the rapporteurs. You're a professional, so you'll probably be able to explain it, but from my point of view, and I'm not an energy expert, a situation in which the same project has two pages in the morning, and then, suddenly, there's an autocorrection that significantly expands it... This situation suggests that, as if there was no idea, some coherent concept, what this legislation is supposed to look like. I would like to ask you why this self-correction appeared just this morning, what is the reason why you decided to report it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. Then we'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you such a detailed question. If a private person on a residential building installs e.g. Photovoltaic installation, this As long as I found out. VAT will be 8% And if it's on the next building, but it's an economic one, then the VAT will be 23%. Is that true? That's the first question. Second question. Is it true that a private person who is a prosumer and produces electricity, e.g. with photovoltaics, in annual billing can sell as much energy as she bought, but of course at a price of 20% Lower? And if it produces more energy, it's probably for that excess, which is for that more energy produced than it bought, nothing will be paid, but it's like giving that energy to the power plant for free? Is that true? If so, are there any planned changes in this regard? Well, if this problem were to be resolved, it would simply significantly increase the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. It's enough that 1 million private people... that everyone would produce, for example. 2 kW, and 2 kW times an hour... times, say, 8 hours or something... Well, then the amount of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. I think the Minister... [[...renewable energy sources. Thank you.]] ...he's already learned the essence of the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u134	Well, it's a B tariff issue. I answer that question. There's a fare B. This is a distribution tariff. The distribution tariffs are within the G tariff, because it includes energy, and transmission. But as far as tariffs C, B and A are concerned, here are the elements of the distribution tariff, i.e. tariff C for low voltage, B for medium voltage, and tariff A for medium voltage. High voltage. You ask what will be the price, the price this year, because of this element. But I understand that what you're talking about... We have here a contract divided into a distribution part and there will be 2 approaches to the part related to the sale of electricity and in the scope of the separate agreement. The first is that the same tariff will apply, which is in the distribution part... 'Cause you still get two bills, unless... well, probably two, or you'd have to have one from the same trader and use CPA, then maybe it would have been different. So that in distribution you will get for PLN 2.18. As far as electricity prices are concerned, according to those records that are now indicated there, it will be different by mid-year and after half-year. When will there be a regulation? I got a question about when there's gonna be a regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation will, I think, within a week, no longer. So that this Christmas and New Year's season will pass... I look at the employees... They're at work and at night, and late in the afternoon to do it. We're aware that we need to do this pretty quickly before all the movements that will arise on the basis of conversation, distribution, electricity sales... By the time that happens, it will be settled. This is our own regulation, the department. That's what it looks like. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, There was also a question about VAT, the point was that there is a difference in VAT 8%, 23%. VAT is actually one way to look at it, 23% of the energy we're talking about right now. The issue of distributed sources of production... Ladies and gentlemen, we have developed Poland's energy policy until 2040. By 15 January, we are gathering attention to this policy, and we are gathering these comments to give them a broad public consultation. I'm dating and I'm gonna hang out with different groups. The windmills announced that they would talk right after New Year's, I'd be happy to accept them, we'd talk, we'd look at the regulations. We know and such regulations in Europe that say that, for example... As far as windmills are concerned, the situation is specific because... generally when someone has a windmill close to them, but doesn't participate in this business, in short, it's the windmill that's bothering him, but as this business is, he's already looking at it differently. It turns out that in Europe this approach is becoming more and more common. Maybe it's the right thing to do. And now I'm looking at the windmills, the first consultation I've had at the Sejm committee. They have already made such demands: or perhaps we would go this way, that we would involve those in whose territory this will arise, then they do not protest. It's something that goes in that direction to make that windmill rise there. There are no changes in regulations so far, and I am talking about the fact that such proposals are being made. How was the situation that everyone was disturbed by windmills and suddenly it turned out that maybe they were actually disturbing and shouldn't be, then on the other hand the communes began to remind themselves: how? Why shouldn't there be a windmill? There will be no windmills, we will have no influence on the municipal budget. That's what it all looks like. I'm sure you need a look and a moment to think about it. As I said, by January 15 we collect comments on Poland's energy policy. She's on the Ministry of Energy's website. I invite you to take a look at her. We'll make the best model possible. There's an energy mix, there you'll see how many photovoltaics, how many winds at sea... You will also see when brown coal ends, when hard coal will be used in Poland. That's where you'll find everything. The question of discussing what could be more perfect is ahead of us, we leave it for the period after 15 January. We've given everyone enough time to get to know these positions. I see interest, especially in renewable energy. The windmills are one thing, but, ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed something equally interesting, this is a matter of biogas plant. There's a lot of things you'd like to do on a biogas plant, if you look at the unit price of electricity for biogas, you'll see that there's no higher, and yet something doesn't work. I've agreed with the biogas companies that we'll meet and talk about the reason why this biogas issue is so poorly developed, because it's a stable, good power source. In the case of windmills, we need to compensate those working in the base, and so is the photovoltaic panels, and when it comes to biogas plants, it looks better. But here's what I'm gonna say. And both, and both, and biogas plants, and windmills, and windmills at sea, are certainly needed. But what I think is the future of Poland, and we point to it in Poland's energy policy, is the issue of distributed energy. The more distributed energy will develop, the less we will have trouble providing enough power, energy in Poland. And that's where we're headed. We listen to different voices. It is also a Polish distributed energy society, which appears... Well, we're talking to him about it. I think we'll find a good, sensible solution to these cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u136	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have two brief questions. I'm worried about the temporary act. As an expert on this subject, would you like to enlighten me and tell me what's gonna happen next year? Will there be a accumulation of prices, a hekatomba, or another bill? That's one question. And the second, more specifically, concerns this Price Difference Fund. I don't think that sounds like building a circus in construction. There's another point in the article. 14. First of all, there are no deadlines for the fund to pay this price difference. Where the amount of funds in the fund account is insufficient to pay the amount of the price difference, the Settlement Manager may temporarily cover that amount from the transitional fee, from the RES fee. So the fund will be drawn from sources that are destined for something completely different. Could you elaborate on that? These are the two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u137	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, do I understand correctly that we have returned to the manual control of energy prices? Because I think it's clear from these last decisions. Answer me, because these questions are being asked, and we are not getting such a definitive, decisive answer. Is this surcharge allowed, or is this illegal public aid in the European Union? And I'd like to get back to one thing. It's very nice of you to talk to local governments about windmills, but I'd like you to hurry up. Some local authorities, precisely because of the recent measures taken by the government, already have a recovery programme in place, because their income from property taxes has fallen to a terrible extent. Therefore, I would very much ask you to take a renewed interest in this matter. And finally, I'd like to... There is such information that company prices have fallen dramatically in recent years. The amount of PLN 13 billion is even spoken of by this type of action, not only the latter. Tell me the truth about these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u139	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u140	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would like to elaborate on Senator Grodzki's question, who asked what would happen next. I'd put them as follows. Well, it's no secret that there will be parliamentary elections next October. After the election, there's always time to form a government. So what? Does the government have any idea how before... Is there a deadline? A solution would have to be proposed, e.g. In the middle of the year, so it's not just the end. And in such a way, I would say the emergency mode in which we are currently working, somehow offset in 2020 the objectively increasing costs of electricity production. Because they won't fall. Maybe they'll be comparable by 2019, maybe a little higher, I don't know. You're a professional, you know more than I do, so I'd ask you to bring it up to speed, to point out what's gonna happen after this bill, when the government is working on some next solution, and in which direction it's gonna go. Because these possibilities can be exhausted • the reduction of excise duty, the elimination or reduction of the transfer charge as such simple mechanisms that can reduce the burden for the citizen on the increase in the cost of electricity production, so it should simply be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u141	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u142	I'm gonna start by asking you about this temporary thing. Of course, it arouses emotions, and I realize that everyone is watching this year... Once again, my dear fellows, this year everything is... [[And there's an election.]] There are enterprises, there are local governments and there is an individual recipient Everything. That's why everything is because... as I said, in our first approach, we could only afford Group G, i.e. households, and small and medium-sized enterprises. When excise duty came in, new measures came in. When there was a transitional fee, not a transfer fee... I'm sorry to make your words straight, but it's because sometimes... I know it's easy for me. Everyone thinks it's the same thing, and then the questions are, like this, you delete the transmission at 95%, and that means that all the power grids are going to fall, they're going to fall, and it's going to be bad. This fee is not a one-year fee. So that these 2 elements are definitely there and remain. You're asking, senators, what's next? There's still a look like that. In the first half, we need to see how the market reacts to what we've done. Not only our market, but also our external market. If we have placed additional CO2 allowances on the EEX exchange, the unit price of these allowances in the normal exchange should fall. So in the context of what's ahead, this reduced price of CO2 allowances should be postponed to next year. We must be aware of one thing. Dear Sirs, we are at the end of this year and at the end of this year contracts are already concluded for next year. Single companies may not have made that deal yet. You also know that the tariffs have been made to the Energy Regulatory Office, that all these elements... Let me put it this way: 2019 we are contracted in 2018 and even in 2017, because for 2, 3 years electricity is contracted. And now, if we're talking about what's going to happen next year, we're talking about the time horizon for the next year and for the next two years. If someone... If these prices of CO2 allowances, for example, fall and reach a relatively low level, then it's worth buying it to have this key element at the right price. The second issue is coal, and the rest is already the company's own costs. The company's own costs... They have to work to make sure the growth isn't significant here. You also know that the actions of us as those who are responsible for the supervision of the State Treasury in so far as we can supervise them have been implemented, and this is about certain procedures to check the costs of our energy companies. And there's one thing I have to say. As I look at the tariff applications that have been submitted, I have talked to the President of URE, and I see that the difference is: in the previous year until the next year, the President of URE gave 8 PLN per MWh of profit, and now it gives only 1 PLN... KWh, I'm sorry. That's what it looks like. I'm gonna look at what I haven't answered yet... [[The Price Difference Fund.]] The Price Difference Fund, that's right. He can actually do it. It has a slightly complicated name, but, on the other hand, if someone reads it, Dear Sir, they'll understand what's going on. Price Difference Payment Fund I don't think it's easier to write it down, in the sense of understanding, because with the fact that the name is long, I agree. There were doubts here... Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, the Account Manager does not take for the service of what we are talking about, nor for the cash. That's how it's written here, you see. He doesn't take anything out of it. But he has some resources, because he has to pay for unused PPAs. RES has all these sources there. And if he acted like you suggested, we'd say he mismanaged the company's finances. Because it can't be that if he had to pay back what we're talking about right now because of the rise in electricity prices, he would have to take credit if he didn't have the money. Yes? Well, if he's got that money in something else and he can use that fund, he translates it into something else, pays it, and in the meantime he's getting new money. That's how it works. I'm just wondering what I haven't told you. [[There's no deadline. Time, period when he's paying...]] No, there they are. They're over there. Pay attention, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to pull that document out right now. That's where it's indicated, what and when. If the recipient doesn't come forward, then he, by his will, should do so. Look, there's definitely a record there. [[Aid allowed...]] Aid allowed or not. Yes... I've been hearing that all day. [[Yes.]] I wasn't in the Seym, but I was watching. Dear Sirs, we have certainly paid attention to whether this is really the case or not. We began to wonder who was receiving all this support. And so: companies neither trading nor distribution on a good case have nothing where they are equipped with only a relay, i.e. the customer is the final customer of electricity. And that's how it looks from that point of view. But I... Of course, we asked for legal opinions. We may not have many of them yet, but I have one of them. If there's a minute of time and your marshal will allow it, I'll quote it. There is such a statement: the price freeze does not constitute State aid at all because it does not fulfil one of the conditions defining State aid. It is not selective, but constitutes a measure of a general nature. The aid is only instruments which benefit selected categories, subjects, industries, sectors and regions. On the other hand, the price freeze applies to all to the same extent, regardless of the type of activity carried out, location or scale. There is no entity excluded from support either directly by excluding statutory or discretionary use of non-price increases or indirectly by the nature of the instrument, since the support is related to the energy of goods consumed in all sectors of the economy without exception. If the support does not meet at least one of the conditions defining State aid, in this case the grounds for selectivity This does not constitute State aid at all and is not subject to restrictions under the aid rules. This is one... [[Who signed it? Tell me.]] [[Who did he read?]] Well, I can't... Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but... [[It's a secret. The judges of the secret, the KRS of mystery, all of the secret...]] No, it's not a secret. [[Quiet, please! Quiet, please!]] The senator wants to know who signed it. Nobody yet, because I got it by e-mail. No one's signed off on it yet. [[That's right! Well...]] [[Voice from the room: text.]] But I'm sure if you look at the text, you'll see that it wasn't written by someone who didn't know anything about it. [[Well, that's for sure.]] [[Thank you very much...]] [[Well, I'd like to believe. And the value of these companies? Tell me more about 13 billion.]] The value of these companies... About 13 billion... Dear Member States, of course, the fluctuations in these companies are and will be. Everyone would want these companies to have as much value as possible. And we probably would, too. But in no way will we provide a situation where the value of these companies will always grow. Of course, it matters to shareholders, but in a situation like it was recently, that shareholders don't get dividends anyway, it doesn't matter much. So far we are not selling these companies, there are no such movements, and therefore it is certainly something that stings in the eyes, but does not translate into anything more practical. [[Mrs. Marshal, there was one more question. About the fact that there were two pages this morning...]] Oh, yeah, yeah. Now. Mr. Senator, I'm responding. This morning, it was all sides. So, if you'll just pay attention... You can enter the Seym. Check it out. I'm sure they were all here this morning... [[Why wasn't there the day before yesterday?]] Before Christmas was suspended this shorter version, which did not cover the possibility of financing for all groups of recipients... During this time in the government there were discussions on, for example, the collection of excise duties, the transitional fee. As soon as these measures appeared, a solution was clarified that dealt with all the groups. [[Did Christmas show up?]] [[Thank you very much...]] It's not Christmas, it's Christmas, it's Christmas, it's Christmas. We worked before Christmas and after Christmas. After the holidays, all we had to do was bring home the volume of these excise measures and the transitional fee. Well, excise duty isn't up to us. [[That's yesterday.]] [[The day before yesterday, it's Saturday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u143	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is asked by Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you mentioned the cost of your companies. The company's own costs are also wage and labour costs, and they ultimately affect the energy prices themselves. In 2017, only Enea, Energa and PGE increased their employment by 4 000 people. I assume it could have been similar in 2018. It's almost 10,000 people, jobs. Money. I'd like to ask you on an example... I have this knowledge of local matters from the Tricity, where Energa is based... There, several hundred people were found at the workplace in connection with the ruling party. I do not mean to be rude, but candidates for presidents of Gdansk, Sopot are employees of Energi, were present, and many Councillors of Law and Justice from local councils are now employees of Energi. I would like to ask what government, and in particular the Ministry of Energy, as a supervisory department, intends to introduce measures Maybe some kind of competence audit or other tools. That would allow us to verify this speedy demand for hiring workers, as I have already said, in fact thousands of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u145	I can't confirm what the senator said... [[This is the result of the employment analysis.]] ...that means thousands of new people find employment. Dear people, you know that if you look from a business perspective, you can see that the increase in employment, if it involves income, is justified. It's not one element... It's not like we're just supposed to watch these companies get less and less employment because it's for the best. If there's a business to do and it can be done by people who can do it, then let them do it. Back to something else... [[What business?]] [[What business?]] [[Why not?]] Well, it's an extra business. For example, someone did not build the power lines. For example, windmills at sea will be built in the future. Why shouldn't a company be set up within the group to implement it? This would be an omission of the economic viability of these companies. So, as far as cost checks are concerned, as you know, an audit is in place. This audit will be carried out and if we know the results, then we can talk. But we're looking at these costs. For now, as I said, from the costs presented to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office... [[What costs?]] ...in terms of tariff applications, it does not appear that they are moving to this price. It's just in this area... In the others, if we check, we'll know.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, then Mr. Senator Przemysław Terminski and Mr. Marek Borowski. Then we'll ask the Minister for an answer. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, because it's bothering you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to go back to sources in a way. Well, in my opinion, ideology is the source here. greenhouse effect. The Union has adopted such an ideology, and we are in the Union and we must confess it. And now I am. Some of these renewable or non-carbon sources are, I would call it, random, they work when there is good weather just for this source, e.g. photovoltaic elements or windmills. But there's one source that's non-carbon and that's stable. It's nuclear energy. Minister, has the decision been made, and if not, when can we expect this decision to be taken, will we build a nuclear power plant and when will we build it? I'm not asking where, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u148	Senator Przemysław Terminski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u149	Minister, I didn't want to ask anymore, but I have to. Well, I just have to, because you're so laconically responding to me à about that B-class energy price. I'm skipping distribution, it's precisely the price of energy indexed on the basis of the stock exchange anyway. And you said, like in the first half of 2018, it's something, and like in the second half, it's something... it's me who wants a concrete example. Imagine a company... to simplify mine. I as Przemek Terminski bought energy for the whole of 2018 at company X. I had such a contract; now it ends, in 2 days after 210 PLN. For next year another company, company Y, which won the tender with me, offered me the price of PLN 340. But at the same time company Y, i.e. the one that won the tender for me, at 30 June 2018 was able to offer, I do not know, 250 PLN. Minister, what are the prices under this regulation we are going to strive for? Up to PLN 210 or to PLN 250? For the price of company X, from company Y? Mid-year, year-round? What kind of idea do you have in this regulation that you mentioned, because I think it's only going to be clarified there?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u150	Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u151	Minister, you mentioned the draft energy policy, which was suspended on the website. Could the Minister tell me when he was suspended from this site. That's one thing. And secondly, what is the basic energy mix there and what year... I mean. I'm mostly talking about coal, nuclear energy, and the rest, in percent.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u152	Good. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u153	Yes. I guess I need to go out with the senator and ask him in more detail. I'd have to know when the deal was. Which deal? From the last deal. I don't know which one you had last, but... [[In company X.]] In company X of the last contract before 30 June. If you tell me what the price is... [[Minister, you can always answer in writing...]] Please? [[...if it's very specific.]] I can. If the senator needs a detailed reference to his question, please state these... [[Minister...]] ...data. We'll tell you in detail how this is going to be done with you and by whom. [[Minister, I would suggest the answer... this is a short question, Mrs. Marshal. Because it's going to... right now, thousands of people are looking at us and waiting for this key answer.]] [[Oh, come on.]] [[Because about 25% of the energy, estimated, is sold at the same time as the supplier's change. And that's a huge problem today.]] That's not a problem. This is the advantage of the market. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[So what's the solution?]] Well, the solution is one. I said we're taking from your last contract. I don't think you have a significantly different price in your last contract than... The previous should be cheaper, in short. Yes? [[Yes.]] Well, that's from the last contract. [[Okay. Thank you.]] Okay. [[Thank you very much... and the other questions? Yet...]] Then maybe I'll answer further if the marshal will allow me. [[Yes, please.]] 'Cause I'm... [[Yes, of course.]] I'm a little chorused, but I still have a little bit of strength. Dear country, there was a question of energy policy of Poland, there were issues related to the greenhouse effect. Are renewable sources and how is the energy mix counted... I answer: the energy mix is calculated using the LCOE indicator. This is an indicator that takes into account everything in turn: construction, operation, closure of the production of everyone, power plants on coal, brown, photovoltaics, windmill... Everything's all right. It consisted of all the sources of production. The program showed what is most effective in a given year. If you ask me how many percent, Mr. Senator, then... You will find a different percentage on this chart every year, because another percentage of hard coal, another percentage of brown coal. In 2035, we will run out of major sources in the field of lignite, so that there is a sharp decline. There's still some brown coal strip, some elements that are still going to work, but there won't be any brown coal after 2035. What's left of conventional energy? Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, all the old blocks Those hundred and twenty, some two hundred. They'll be out of work for the next few years. Some do not pay to adapt to BAT because no one will put money into such investments that will be in operation by 2025. So what's going to work on the base? We founded energy policy in Poland... Nuclear energy is included there, that the first block will be in 2033 and later in the sequence every 2 years are shown further blocks. Of course, nuclear power works on the base and it works all the time. She doesn't have... It's not regulated, it's like she's driving in a base with the size of her production. So we're putting nuclear energy in there. After the consultation, we want this project back. Which, I'm not hiding, has already been discussed in the government It is already submitted as a final document to be accepted by the government and to be implemented. What's the time horizon here? 2040. That's all we've been able to plan with confidence the sizes that appear there, in terms of photovoltaics, wind at sea, brown coal, hard coal, gas... Because there's gas coming in. You have also included gas supply in the context of the system's regulatory capacity. ♪ 'Cause we're bringing in windmills ♪ At sea, though, it's forty-two percent... But it still has to be secured. And since we're introducing photovoltaics, significantly... You'll find 2 graphs there, on one of the photovoltaics is shown as... I mean. In the installed capacity section you will find a very wide strip of photovoltaics, but how will this translate the efficiency of 10 which at the moment is a real performance, it turns out that energy from this does not have that much. It's an interesting study, I encourage... We have prepared such a proposal in the perspective of 2040. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question? Because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u154	You can do it. You're welcome. [[Thank you. Okay, so...]] Wait a minute. Have a drink with the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u155	I learned that energy policy has a time horizon 2040 is the answer to one of my questions. But the second was this: if it's 2040, then what percentage in the energy mix in 2040 is going to come from coal, whichever? I understand the brown will be gone or almost gone, so... But there'll be carbon imports. So what percentage will come from coal, and what percentage will come from nuclear energy?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u156	I don't have that graph in front of me... [[But you remember for sure.]] And I'd say... I could answer in more detail. In any case, in the case of coal energy, only new blocks are left, which are actually either at the end of the construction or are built. There's nothing more in the case of coal, there's no hard coal. Brown coal practically goes down to zero, only some blocks can work in terms of their exploitation, with the possibilities for obtaining raw materials. And nuclear power is growing. As I say, we start with one block, then these blocks are going to be nine, within 1 thousand 400, 1 thousand 600... it's going to be this type of block and this size block. Every two years, there'll be another one block each. The level will not be crazy and it must be known that nuclear power will not dominate our market. She'll cover 15%. or a maximum of a dozen percent, no more, but she'll be working on the base. And on a similar level, maybe a little bit bigger, there'll be coal. The rest will come from sources... I mean, gas will be a regulatory element, but there will be photovoltaics, wind at sea, biogas, all these energy from renewable sources.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u157	Thank you. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... about this nuclear power, because I'd like to ask...]] [[Voices from the hall: No, the line...]] But there's a line, Mr. Senator. It's a line. [[I asked earlier and...]] Oh, well, that's nice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u158	I didn't get an answer before. Does the adoption of this scheme mean a clear decision on the construction of a nuclear power plant? Because these are, in a way, divergent issues... Well, it may not be different, but it's not exactly the same. Will there be a separate decision about this? When can we just expect it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, in order for her to be there at all, the agreement in this regard had to be in the government, not the formal one that will come in writing, but the agreement that yes, this is a mix, this is a good direction, we are going this way, we want this production. When's it gonna be final? Then when the government adopts the document under the name "Polish energy policy" until 2040.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u160	Thank you. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I ask, because at the committee meeting I did not receive an answer from you about the institution that is being created under this law, the Price Difference Payment Fund. What will be the cost of this institution, what will be the planned employment, and where will the institution's seat be? I'm asking because you know she's gonna have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u162	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u163	Here's the thing. Of course, this fund, as I said, is operated by the Account Manager and the cost of it is zero, so it was established in our direct talks, and the bank that will serve it will be Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. And these costs, which will result from the amount of funds flowing through the bank, from all the conditions that usually accompany the bank's transactions, will be those costs which will sort of charge that amount. The state is also included in the law, it says what the funds from this fund are going for, among other things. for the operation of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u164	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u165	Thank you very much. Minister, since we're on energy policy, I have a question for you. Are there any winds in the European Union in your assessment that would point to some adjustment of the Union's existing energy policy, taking into account two factors that I would like to point out, firstly, the loss of Europe's competitiveness on the global market due to very high energy prices Second, a social factor? Well, the recent protests of the yellow vests are de facto protests against the Euro-Tax related to environmental protection. Everything in the sky... all the analysis indicates that these movements... that poor people pay for the clean air for the rich, those inequalities. I'm already simplifying, but that's what it all comes down to. It is likely that political and social tensions across Europe will be triggered in the coming years. In view of these two factors, will there not be an adjustment in your assessment, which in turn will blow out into space these assumptions of the Polish government, which are sort of focused on these principles of energy policy of the European Union in its current form? I ask because many signs suggest that it can change under the pressure of these 2 factors, i.e. rising electricity costs, which are throwing European products out of the global market, and social protests, which can increase in various aspects, and the French example, the example of yellow vests, is something to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u166	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u167	You're asking the senator if you can see this in the government's actions with regard to the approach... I don't think you can see it yet. There are only signs that indicate what you have said about the lack of competitiveness of the European economy due to high electricity prices. And you know very well that the price of electricity in Poland is not the highest. When you look at Germany in various aspects, it turns out that it is almost twice as high as ours, but the loads are high. When you look at the German account, you will see that in the German account the price of electricity does not represent such a high value. Only further elements related to green energy, with all these climate issues, make this price so high, but the position: electricity is not much. How's that gonna affect us? I think we're being reasonable. We're not suddenly trying to come down with CO2 emissions below 550 grams in five years. It takes us a few years to do that. We want to use our own natural resources when it comes to coal. These new blocks, better blocks, with better efficiency, lower emissions are a sensible solution combined with a working nuclear power base. And this isn't about crazy numbers either. So far, as I'm saying, it's supposed to be 9 blocks in general. The first will probably be where they were planned, but I also do not hide that we think about and write about this in Poland's energy policy. It makes sense to examine the area from such an angle as to whether a nuclear power plant should be built there, because then the distribution of this power, this generated electricity, does not require additional power lines that would be necessary. So that perhaps some correction will be, but we do not foresee significant changes, we do not approach it so orthodoxly that we want to make it necessary, as I say, 5 years to reduce our emissions in a very significant way. We will reach this ceiling of 550 grams, but it will be a few years before 2040, so that after 2030 we will be able to talk about what we are doing. This is good on the one hand for society, and on the other hand because of the use of our own raw materials. If we have to correct this policy... I'm not saying she's the best and forever, even though we think she's the best at the moment. I think that after these adjustments that we will make in consultation with the various groups, it will already be a good document for the next years of operation in terms of electricity, indication of direction, indication of solutions, indication of distributed energy. The distributed energy is a lot of work. Already today, in our operating and traffic manuals, you will find regulations indicating what should be the elements linking energy distributed to the system, so that it does not cause desynchronization of the system, so that the frequency is correct. If that weren't the case, it's just then it's to cut off this... as if there's a distributed energy production going on the island.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u168	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, I asked about this collusion of producers, electricity distributors, as pointed out by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Of course, he referred the case to the D.A.'s office. I don't want you to tell all this here, because we probably don't know the details yet, and I would ask you to put in writing what kind of action the government has taken to clarify this matter, and what action has the Competition and Consumer Protection Office taken, because it is appropriate for such a case. But was the case of a possible conspiracy even analyzed in your ministry? Did you see the problem? Does he even exist, according to you? This is the first question whether a group of questions and I would ask for a broader written answer, and now perhaps a short information. And a specific question. On the occasion of this bill, the Minister talks about various elements of energy policy, so I would like to ask: according to the Minister, when will the investments in the construction of wind farms in the Baltic be started?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u170	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u171	Price conspiracy. Ladies and gentlemen, you asked why this government has waited so long to introduce some of the mechanisms we are talking about today. Here's what I'm going to say: as early as July, we noticed that prices not only for CO2 emissions but also for the stock market are beginning to rise significantly. The CO2 emission allowances were one of the elements that could have influenced this. We led to the meeting of the Ministry of Energy, the Energy Regulatory Office, the UOKiK for this... I asked to ask you if they were looking at these transactions. We have in Poland and the UOKiK, and URE, and KNF 3 institutions that control the stock exchange. We don't have anything for this stock exchange. We don't even have how to ask for the prices that companies put up on the stock market because they're stock companies and I'd interfere with their business, and I don't have that right. On the other hand, these institutions And URE, and KNF, and UOKiK have that right. The president of ure said that maybe something like this happened. I pressed myself here, in this building as well, the president of URE at some point, so that he would finally tell us what it was like. Ladies and gentlemen, the months run, and we do not have a diagnosis, in the sense of your diagnosis, not the Ministry of Energy. Recently it turned out that he found some arguments that suggested that there might be a conspiracy. We'll wait, we'll see. There will be a conspiracy, one of the companies that is within our reach and supervision... Decisions are obvious then, there's nothing to talk about. Besides, these aren't just our cases, they're criminal cases. So that we think that we have institutions in Poland that should take care of it and should do it effectively. And that's probably what you and I should expect from these institutions. Then we'd be clear about these things. And such a demand, saying: "Perhaps it is... This is no longer the time to say: 'possibly'. You can see that after one transaction or another. If we're talking about what was in May in December Because it looks like this assessment of the functioning of the electricity exchange, the trade on the stock exchange is from May Well, let me get this straight: it took a while. [[Thank you very much...]] [[There's still the windmills at sea.]] [[Ah, windmills at sea.]] Ah, windmills at sea. Let me put it this way: they will rise... i.e. openness on our part is. It's just a question of the investment process to run it. This lasts two to three years when it comes to the windmill itself... But there's another problem in the north. If you look up north, you'll see that today, in order to get that energy from there in the required size, you need to expand the power lines. And the Polish energy networks are preparing the program... they actually know how they want to run these lines. And the following years will be devoted to the implementation of this program of electricity extraction from the coastal zone to the centre of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u172	Thank you. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u173	Thank you very much. Minister... [[Would you mind if I asked the Minister?]] [[Voice from the room: No, because...]] Can I go first? [[Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, ……]] So who's first? [[Senator Libicki.]] Good. Minister, I wanted to go back to my previous question to establish a calendar of how it was done. You said that this original shorter project appeared, as I understand it, by Christmas. Then you said that Christmas was to be celebrated, so you weren't working on it, but it was December 28th this morning... that your self-correction, which has been reported, which has greatly expanded this project, was already December 28th this morning. It means that you actually created this self-correction and wrote it on December 27th, so it took you one day to expand this project so significantly. Is that what I'm saying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u174	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u175	No, you don't have to understand it like that. Like I said, we've dealt with electricity prices before. We have already been negotiating with the Union since July with regard to the acquisition of funds. It wasn't until December 5th. On 5 December we had the first project, this project with compensations for Group G and for small and medium-sized enterprises. And that was the first project. The next project was the one that appeared after receiving the acceptance of excise duty. You are aware that excise duty is not decided by the Minister of Energy. There's my wonderful colleague from the Ministry of Finance... and the long negotiations with him and the Ministry of Finance have led to the fact that there was an agreement on excise duty. The third element is already an element in which we participate in part. And that's the transitional fee. And only a short circuit of these 3 elements resulted in a transitional charge. It was to put a dot over the case so that we could get to the bottom of it. And since we had already had this money, about PLN 5 billion, we wanted to put it into the whole mechanism, so that there would be one good mechanism, which, so to speak, will take care of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as the individual recipient. So that the calendar was like this: first it was for G, i.e. for households and small and medium-sized enterprises, then it was what appeared before Christmas, and we added to what we were thinking earlier to use resources and put CO2. And that's where you get this project that we're putting forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u176	Thank you. Senator Jan Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the Senators of the Civic Platform ask questions about the cost of employment, in short: the payroll fund. I have a question for you. Please prepare your answer in writing, because I'm sure you won't answer me right now. The payroll fund paid to the boards of individual companies under the Ministry of Energy in 2015 and 2018. I will remind my colleagues from the Platform that the then president of Orlen received over PLN 6 million only for 2015. He didn't write... I don't know if he wrote a book or was an inventor. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal will allow...]] [[Yeah, I'm joining this...]] May I, Minister? And the state... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. The state of employment in the various parallel companies. I don't know if there was a division. Please take into account the employment situation in 2015 and 2018. And a request to you, Mr. Marshal: you will be so kind to consider Today I'm gonna take a break and vote tomorrow around 10:00 or 11:00. Because on the other hand, there are questions that are repeated three or four times. Well, there's no point in sitting around until 3:00 or 4:00 and listening to the same questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u178	Mr. Senator, if there's a formal conclusion on your part, I'll submit it... [[No, no, no, Mr. Marshal. Take this under advisement.]] ...to vote. [[That's not a conclusion.]] Good. Minister, I join Senator Dobrzyński's request. In writing, please. A little expanded... those years he talked about, but also the 16th and 17th. [[Mr. Marshal, you can of course expand this, I am interested in 2015 and 2018.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u179	We'll prepare that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u180	Yes? Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Bobko a question. [[Can I come from here?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u181	Minister, I have two questions. One thing at a time: I hope that you will dispel my doubts. Namely, in this act several points are that contracts concluded earlier, which cause an increase in electricity prices for customers, will be adjusted. Right? Under the law, they'll be corrected. But is there even a possibility... That's where I'd ask you to dispel the doubts. Some company will recalculate that if it doesn't make the correction that the law forces it to do, then it is subject to sanctions and has to pay penalties, but not more than 5% ... [[Voice from the room: rotation.]] ...your turn... didn't you? If she calculates that she's more paid to pay the 5% than going through the whole procedure, then what? Is that even a possibility, or what I'm saying is completely illogical? And that's not actually a possibility... [[There you go...]] And if that were possible, then what about the recipient who would have the same contract he had before at a higher price? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u182	There you go. Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u183	The question of what's going on with the recipient... I'll start at the end. Dear Member State, the recipient of electricity, if it loses its ability to receive energy from its existing supplier in any way, will switch to reserve sales. The reserve seller shall provide it with electricity until the new contract is concluded. The question is whether these 5% It's a lot or a little... We have met with the statement that it is very much that these are drastic sizes that will affect companies in a very significant way if they were to pay those penalties. But there will be nothing to prevent the parties from communicating about it. If they don't want to negotiate this deal... No one forces these companies to conclude such an agreement in the sense of imposing such an obligation. If he doesn't show up, he won't want to... the company that sells or the companies that they sell is obliged to offer such solutions to the electricity recipient: termination of the contract, conclusion of a new agreement or use of the services of another electricity supplier. That's what it looks like from a practical point of view. So I don't think anyone wants to pay those penalties. First it was going to be 10%. but for large companies it turned out to be very drastic and stood at 5%. But even the 5% for medium-sized and larger companies it is also big money. For one contract it's certainly not worth, say, to face a penalty of this magnitude.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u184	Thank you, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Marek Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u185	I ask these questions again, Minister, because you persist in answering certain things. I asked when this energy program was suspended from the website. That's one thing. Secondly, we have already established that the final year of this programme is 2040 and that in the energy mix about 16% It's supposed to come from nuclear energy. I asked for coal. How much coal? So two questions: when was the program suspended and how much coal was it supposed to be? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: That's exactly not...]] That's about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u186	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u187	Mr. Senator, I don't remember exactly, but over a month and a half we've given for consultation. So, as we're talking about January 15th, you could say that somewhere in early December he should be suspended. It's worth going to the website and checking it out. As for the magnitude of what, if the senator wants us to give you the details, we'll send you the information or he'll come to your friend who has the computer on him and give you the details... [[Let's just tell him how much coal he's got. I don't know, 60%...]] Well, he's saying... [[...40%? How much?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u188	Thank you, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Coal is for 200 years... credits.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u189	Thank you very much. I, Mr. Marshal, wanted to ask you a question by developing Senator Kleina's question, but I'm going to ask it in a separate mode. It's about windmills in the sea. My first question: what is the predicted distance, will they be visible from the beach? Well, tourist qualities, favors, let's call it aesthetic, etc... There are different views on this subject. From the beach, for example. will these windmills be visible in the Beach or in Karwia, or will they be so far away in the sea that they will not be seen from the beach? That's my first question. And the other. Wasn't the use of such installation ideas for this purpose considered a few years ago, such a farm of a pumping and pumping plant in Żarnowiec, which, as you know, is connected to these power grids and to this national system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u190	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u191	Will these windmills be visible? The conditions for the position of the windmills... We don't have the ability to spend them. Those who manage the waters decide how far they can be placed. So, if it's of any interest to you, I'll ask the appropriate ministry to answer... [[That's not the bill.]] ...like, let's say, it looks remotely like this. The second question was... [[Is it possible to connect in Żarnowiec...]] Oh, Żarnowiec, will it be or won't it be... The bulbous is not in itself predicted, but the surroundings of the Żarnowiec are. So that those environmental studies that have been done so far were in the vicinity, I'd say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u192	Thank you. The senator in writing wants an answer about these windmills? [[About these distances and the windmills and those... so that I would very much like to ask you in writing, Minister... no longer wish to prolong the discussion.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Well, of course I do.]] Okay, thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u193	Yet, Minister, going back from the windmills to the bill for a moment, I'd like to ask. I understand that the amount of PLN 9 billion is not taken from the hat, but is based on estimates of the Ministry. I also understand that she is being compared in some way with these rates, with those fees that were paid before 1 July 2018. The upper limit, as is apparent from the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2, for contractual prices with traders, this is the tariff that the State here defines. But we know that before 1 July this year many entrepreneurs successfully negotiated prices lower than in the tariff. Have you estimated how this is going to have until now the principle that the upper limit is that the tariff then in force, with the increase... [[But that question was, Mr. Senator.]] ...prices of electricity on the stock market? [[It was a question. Senator Klein was asking them.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u194	You're welcome, Minister. [[It was a question.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm in session now. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u195	Mr. Senator, I'll say it again. We estimated all the costs that are the difference between contracts concluded with regard, first, to tariffs, second, to price lists. Well, based on the knowledge we had. This was not the case for small companies, but we were able to estimate the extent to which we needed to find sources of funding for all electricity consumers. So believe me, we did it as accurately as we could, although some smaller contracts had to be estimated from a certain level of our ability to evaluate, because... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...only the president of the URE can have a detailed knowledge in this regard. She never gets to us or is given in the statistics. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u196	Excuse me. Just a moment of silence, please. No more questions? [[There isn't.]] Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you to the marshal and thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you, Minister. Thank you... [[A formal conclusion to end...]] ...for the exact explanation. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Oh, there isn't? Okay. If there isn't, it's fine.]] I'm asking for a moment of peace because we're continuing our deliberations. I'm opening a discussion. [[There are no volunteers. 'Cause where...]] Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, I'm still sitting here running the deliberations. [[It's hard.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I therefore ask that you take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're facing a difficult decision, a very serious decision. The electricity prices proposed in the contracts were unacceptable to companies and the effects would not be acceptable to citizens. So, of course, intervention was necessary. Probably you could and should have done it a lot before we signaled it. But it's today and this bill. Firstly, I would like to say strongly that the Senators of the Platforms see the need for intervention. There is no doubt that, regardless of how we break down our accents and try to look for the responsible, it will do nothing to deal with the harsh facts that need to be addressed. On the other hand, it seems to me that this Episcopal Act brings with it a number of important threats that we have been talking about here. First of all, Minister, it was really in a hurry. Such laws require several months of reliable work. And we as senators, often people with censuses, have the right to believe that the entire chamber has been ignored. You can't do that anyway, you can't risk it. You, Minister, have the right to believe that these rules are compatible with European Union law, but these are not procedures. You're not in the government from now on, you know that. They haven't been kept. The danger of questioning these rules is great. We're saying this because it's happened before. And you don't jump to conclusions. It's a risk. not because of this bill, but because of the purpose which was written in it, because of the people we want to protect, because of the companies and local governments. You can't do that. And it also seems risky because, at the committee meeting, we showed confusion about a very large number of rules that can be interpreted in a wide variety of ways. If the President of URE expresses doubts about the shape of this law, how can one be calm? After all, neither the Minister nor any of us are questioning the powers of this office. Therefore, please understand this long-term discussion in only one way that we have not been freed as opposition senators from too many doubts that this is a thoughtful movement. And I do not think that you, as senators of the ruling group, are satisfied and sure of your own. But these increases are the result, that's the result. And the question is, is this law the answer to the cause? On one perhaps to some extent yes Of course, we are talking about certificates and their increases. However, when we think about other causes, very serious causes, it turns out that after more than 3 years of government We don't have basic tools. The State, ending its term of office, perhaps in a moment, is just beginning to present to us for consultation the idea of an energy policy. It's a loss. It's been too long. And that's why there was no system action. Well, if you don't know what you're trying to do, how can you make partial decisions in this matter? It wasn't there, and we have what we have: joining mines with energy, constantly changing boards, changing without thinking about it, I can say that because I tried to look into it. and uncontrolled employment growth. These are management errors. And there's an increase in carbon prices, and there's emission prices, and there's this mix, but it's not an energy mix, it's just price, which is for the rulers, it's a big surprise. And he shouldn't be. Ladies and gentlemen, CO2 would not be such a problem for us if we could at least reduce our distance to those who use more renewable energy sources. How much of this nonsense has been said from this speaker about the extraordinary costs of renewable energy? And now we're looking at what is the gap in prices for renewable energy rather than coal energy. And that's why today we're reminding you of these mistakes, about the inhibition of RES, about the inhibition of prosumer energy. The Minister is hoping that we will return, so to speak, to the right path, perhaps with corrections. But these are lost years. This distance in CO2 emissions was great and remained great and even increased. We made a lot of effort, but others didn't stand still either, so this distance was and is huge. That's why it's two and a half times bigger for us than it is for others. We're not dealing with it very well, you're not dealing with it very well, maybe because there are so many of them. Also among the senators, and perhaps in the government. - who are questioning the Union's energy and climate policy at all. And even the questions showed that some were hoping for a miracle. Some hope that something will change, maybe something will change in the Union, so that we don't have to do anything. Or that we don't do too much. Let us abandon these vain expectations, let us take care of our future, let us begin to take care of the clean air. Let us take care of climate change, and let us direct our actions to it. 'Cause if we use the extra bills we sell now for compensation, we're obviously not gonna use them to the extent that we should. That's 100%. , not 20% To change this situation, which is at the heart of these increases. It is about more funding for the development of renewable energy sources, reducing emissions, etc., etc. Because certificates are not against Poles. It's just that we have money to upgrade. This mechanism forces the separation of this pot. We are not taking this money back to the Union, so we should use it here and now. And I think that's the basic message and the basic lesson that we should learn from this situation. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. These increases, this necessary fascia that we see here today, is the last bell that should move the government to finally start operating systemically to reduce CO2 emissions. Otherwise, next year we'll meet another wave of raises. And I don't know what the government's gonna offer us then. Well, unless it's a game for it to be a different government, God forbid. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u198	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to respond in writing to questions asked by Senators Kazimierz Kleina, Jan Dobrzyński, Bogdan Borusewicz and Jan Maria Jackowski. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! As Senator Augustine said just now, we are dealing with quite a leap in prices, and the government wants to react, should not be astonished, doubts or criticisms. That's not the point. Of course we're talking about method, we're talking about how to prepare the bill, but I think it's worth talking about something else. Price increases in some areas are natural and government interference in price increases must be very balanced and prudent. As far as electricity is concerned, with our energy mix, this increase in prices In fact, it is said here that it is inevitable and it will follow. Coal will be expensive, Polish coal will be expensive It's absolutely inevitable. I will therefore ask how often and to what extent the government is going to interfere with this increase in prices. In this case, I would like to remind you that since 1999 I have had such data. By 2015, the average increase in electricity prices in Poland was over 6% per year, so it was faster than the increase in wages. And that's what you have to accept. This leads to greater energy savings, which leads to the fact that we all wonder how to save this energy. In this case, it would be sensible not to block the complete price increase, but to weaken this price increase. But does the government say yes: 20% As we speak of this rise in prices, there are 70% values. , 50%, 40% ...some local governments have signed something like this, I guess. But the Energy Regulatory Office has already dealt with this and found that really such an justified price increase resulting from the rise in coal prices So notabene, that's 19%. from the previous year And the increase in certificate prices is about 20%. So some government interference, so that it's not 20%, makes sense, but bringing this completely to nothing is blocking price increases and causing an explosion to happen in the coming years. It's kind of like dropping air from a balloon. Well, if we pump it like that and pump it, it's gonna break. Every once in a while, you need to drop some of that air. Why does the government decide that? And that's what I was going to explain to Senator Czerwinski. What is it? I mean, the government wants it right, and all they do is mess with it. That's the thing. The government. Of course, this is pre-election, which is quite obvious, creating a situation in which after the elections even the flood. And that's what it's all about. If, for example. An increase of 6**7% has been allowed , blocking further with excise duty, with the help of, let's say, a transitional fee and maybe some other minor solutions, that would make sense. But here it goes far too far. That's one thing. Second, state aid. We here from this tribune have often warned against the fact that there is a European law, that it cannot be violated, etc. But no, how do you, of course, know better, you have your experts, etc. The Minister read the opinion here, and it wasn't very clear where the opinion came from... Well, we just found out she came by e-mail. Well, the question is, if I e-mail you something, you'll read it, too. Ladies and gentlemen, if the price increase was blocked by budget subsidies, because this was the case only for households, it would not be a problem, I think. But it concerns companies, it concerns production, i.e. that by means of budgetary means the competitiveness of industry, services in the Polish economy is improved, and therefore the competitiveness of the Polish economy is improving artificially. Well, to be honest, I don't believe that aid on such a scale and in this formula will be considered permissible public aid. Because what else is a reduction in excise duty, then the government can always do, then it doesn't take that money, there's nothing to talk about. But here we just, we just have the elements of a simple subsidy. The fact that the bill was made on your knees, everyone can see. The Minister was tired of it for a long time, but finally he said: the 21st came the first project. The twenty-first was Friday. Then it was Saturday, Sunday, Christmas Eve, 2 days of Christmas, during which time, as we heard, it was not worked, and immediately after Christmas there was a huge project. What does that mean? That means there was no concept in this case. There was a preliminary concept to save something, and then someone came and said, "Wait a minute, wait a minute, but you, the others, and maybe from here, etc.," etc. So it was done on the knee, at the last minute, without consulting, with this public aid. What's gonna happen next, I don't know, I suspect there's gonna be serious problems. Finally, the energy program. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole point of this is that we have a very common situation here, and we are beginning to consider what to do with it. And these underworld situations often result from the fact that there was no game plan before. I specifically asked when this program was suspended on the website. Yeah, a month ago. So after three years of this government, we now have a program. But what kind of program? Well, this program was created for rape in connection with the climate conference which Poland organized. It was necessary to show that we were moving forward, although perhaps not yet, but in 10, 15, 20 years, until 2040. And what's gonna happen until 2040? I want it in a blend of 16%. nuclear energy. You said here: every two years the blocks are returned. We with one block have a huge problem, let alone 9 blocks and it's given back every two years. And bringing coal energy from the mix from the present, I think, 80% to 32%. This is fiction, Minister. Paper is patient, you can do anything, now you consult it. What's the route, what costs, where's the money coming from? As far as energy plants are concerned, energy companies that should raise funds for investment, they spend this money on something else entirely, prices do not allow them to increase, so I do not know where this money will be taken. To conclude, what remains in this situation? Of course, I will not vote against this law, but I will not vote in favour either. I'm gonna hold off because this whole concept is wrong. What's left for us? Well, she recently told Poland that Minister Tchórzewski was at Jasna Góra in Częstochowa and entrusted the energy of Divine Providence. Well, I see that only God's providence can help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u200	Thank you, Senator. I would like the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki. [[Mr. Marshal, in corrigendum mode, because my name has been mentioned. Mr. Marshal Borowski evidently did not understand my statement, and certainly his statement was based on falsehood, because this law is not of an episodeal nature. She is a permanent element of the Polish legal system, at least for now. And all your arguments are falling apart.]] [[No...]] Please, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, in extraordinary mode, we are debating how to stop these excessive increases in electricity prices. And I would like to begin this speech and end with an example from my constituency. For the first time I heard about this problem we're discussing here today, I found out four months ago. I got a call from an entrepreneur from my constituency with 800 employees. This furniture manufacturer said this: "Sir, I have received new proposals for contracts for 2019. These are proposals, which for me means 2.5 million PLN more for electricity in 2019. You know what the margins are. I'm working. This is killing for me. I'm throwing myself out that when I found out about this four months ago, I didn't raise the right amount. I talked about it in various speeches, but not as loudly and decisively as I would like. But I'm a simple senator, and you have a government with an entire administration system. And I can safely assume that at least four months ago, if not before, you already knew about it, and you could do something about it so that there wouldn't be anything that was normal in this term of office, so that we wouldn't work the wrong way at night, hoping that everything would go smoothly and that no amendment would pass. There were charges here. And in pro-government media, it's very common. That the previous coalition is to blame. Well, I want to be very clear... I appeal to Minister Tchórzewski, who said this: these increases must be, because we must take care of the investment plans of energy companies. Why does the government have to take care of these plans? Even if the Minister says they're equity companies with different shareholders, these shareholders are minority shareholders. If they were the majority, they wouldn't have let a situation in which within three years there are 5, 6 or 7 boards. These boards would be more stable. If that is the case, that means that the Treasury is the majority shareholder. If you had more private shareholders, you wouldn't have to worry about the investment policy of energy companies. Well, we decided to go back in various fields of Polish economic life to manual control and that is the result. It would simply be that the Energy Regulatory Office would set certain rates and that the case would end. However, I would like to make it very clear that if we are in such an extraordinary situation, then the only solution is to adopt this law, although we all know very well here that this is a temporary, one-year, purely electoral solution. And now, speaking of which, I'm going to refer again to the same entrepreneur so that it's not that I didn't talk about it in advance. The same businessman called me two weeks ago with another case, another motion. Namely, he says, "Sir, it's gonna get worse than the current. Germany is preparing a bill on the basis of which all my Ukrainian workers will leave because the German government is paying entrepreneurs to their apartment, to feed them and to learn their language. I am talking about this not only to tighten this speech with a certain buckle, but also to make it clear that from this speaker I am speaking in advance to people who are responsible for the labour market in Poland. Such a problem may arise. Besides, this entrepreneur is talking about a situation where German companies are already calling the Ukrainians who work for him, and they say to them: we know that for 3 years you have learned how to operate these machines well, come to us, you will get this, this and this. And this man is terrified of how he's gonna keep this company. Well, that's what I'm talking about in advance. Finally, I would like to end by talking about a certain legislative procedure that is taking place during our deliberations. First, the drafts of individual laws were presented, which appeared quickly, as parliamentary projects, because then there was no need to carry out all these consultations, to consult, etc. Now we are dealing with a situation where a government project appears, including without all the opinions and the results of the consultations that should be. But we went even further. Senator Czerwiński, whom I very much value, said this: we cannot accept any amendment, because Members have already left and therefore this amendment cannot be voted out this year. Well, if it's suggested to the senators that they can't make amendments, because there's just not enough time for that, then I think this situation is a denial of the civilized way of proceeding in parliament. And that is what I would like to draw your attention to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u202	Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, unfortunately again in correction mode...]] Well, you have the right because your name has been mentioned. You're welcome. Up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u203	Just a little bit, yeah. [[Briefly.]] Sadly, this statement was not understood either, because that was not the case. It was about what is the point of submitting minority proposals, which do not change the law much, are cosmetic in nature, and are submitted for a different purpose to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski will begin his speech in a moment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The fact that energy prices are crucial for economic, social, political life and in all other dimensions is obvious because electricity is dependent on the functioning of modern man. Europe's loss of competitiveness as a result of extremely high energy prices It also loses its competitiveness as a result of high standards of labour protection, social conditions, labour costs, but this is a separate topic, that is Europe's civilization acquis. This is the problem that we Europeans will face on the global stage. However, it must also be said that the extremely stringent standards for reducing emissions from a social, political and even substantive point of view adopted in the framework of energy policy are measures which in fact do not serve the objectives pursued. I would like to remind you that on a global scale, the European Union emits 11% CO2 and the largest issuers, India, Russia, USA, China, Brazil, emit more than 50%. This should give us a lot to think about, because these countries are driven by their economic interests and do not intend to participate in various programmes, strategies, policies that are uncomfortable from their point of view. Recently, President Trump spoke on environmental issues and withdrew from this package. We are witnessing events in France. I mean the yellow vest. In fact, if you ignore the internal French political aspect, whether the French mostly like their current president or not like him I do not want to be involved in this issue, and all analysts stress this, is the issue of the increase in excise duty on fuel proposed by the French Government since 1 January 2019. Moreover, the increase in this excise duty was not so big. However, the scale of this protest, i.e. the protest against some form of new European tax in the form of these environmental taxes, shows that we are on the eve of very dynamic social, cultural and perhaps even political changes in the countries of the European Union. Because there are many indications that this so-called. The movement of yellow vests is a phenomenon that will expand, will take new forms and will also take on some political dynamics. And from this point of view, I believe that the actions of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, which aim to ensure that all possible means, within the framework of the commitments that the Polish government has made, unfortunately, as a result of a rather unsuspecting policy of previous prime ministers, are particularly concerned with October 2014, when these solutions have been agreed to, which result in an increase in prices for CO2 emissions and, on the other hand, in our Member States' commitments in the European Union... This is a step in the right direction. The best evidence that this is a step in the right direction, and this is a socially expected solution, is that in the Seym a few hours ago the opposition, who criticizes these solutions so much and reminds us here that it is late that it was wrong that it had to be different that everything had to be changed at all, supported these solutions, which best shows that it is also aware of the social realities in which we had to proceed. I would therefore appeal to the High House to pass this bill, which is expected by the citizens as soon as possible. And I would appeal to the Polish government to think about solutions for the future right now. Because we know that the solutions in question are ad hoc solutions. And it was also not by chance that I asked the Minister if he saw within the European Union a change of approach, a change of philosophy, or an understanding of these standards of energy policy, which makes electricity prices, de facto what is paid, what the final customer pays for electricity, for electricity... Is there any reflection there? I think these phenomena... We will see very spectacular changes in this area in the coming year. Let me remind you that there will be European elections in May. They will also result in, among others. that there will be a change in the European Commission. So that in this case, we need to be vigilant. And the Minister is right. And I would like to express this view here that the government is looking at these issues with very much realism and taking into account our point of view on energy issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now speak to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u207	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! We have heard from Prime Minister Morawiecki, but also here, in this Chamber, that the responsible for this mess at the moment related to the increase and the possible increase is the Civic Platform and the European Union. [[Voice from the room: I Tusk.]] I think it's time to end. It's a kid's job to blame others. It's got to end. The PiS rules over 3 years and must take responsibility for these governments and for difficult decisions. You can't keep saying, "They're the guilty ones, they did the wrong thing, or they didn't do it." No. However, I would suggest growing up and taking responsibility for what is being done, because good politics is also about taking responsibility and for the good sides, for what is working and for what is failing. We say, you say, that increases are mainly related to CO2 charges. But it was known, it was known not from today and not for a year that there are certificates free of charge first and then you will have to pay. It was known. However, it was heard from the state: we absolutely do not agree to decarbonisation. Well, you don't agree, but you have to pay for it. That consciousness should be. We may disagree, but these certificates will probably be more expensive. Of course, the price of coal, the increase in the price of coal, because the price of coal has increased, which is also a problem that is imposed on it, but it is also important to modernise energy. New power plants, new boilers, their exchange is several hundred billion zlotys in this perspective until 2040, about which the Minister spoke. Nuclear power plant is a minimum of PLN 30 billion at prices a few years ago. Suppose it's 10 billion more expensive. Therefore, energy companies that will invest must have money. I understand it's an election year, I understand, here politics is imposed on economics. And it is good that this dance is over when the Minister of Energy said that there will be increases, the Prime Minister said that there will be no raises. So we have a bill that implements the Prime Minister's opinion. There will be no raises and we are making a bill on increases that will not be. This is a galimatias, a galimatias and a difficulty. Galimatias and the difficulty also concern this law, which we will not be fully convinced of, we do not know how it will work in particular segments, in particular sections. That was heard in the questions, also in the Minister's answers. It is a very complicated and specialised law, and we did not have time to consult specialists at all. We're listening to the Minister, you're a specialist, but it would be worth asking for information from others as well. This morning, the Sejm receives an amendment that is several times greater than the bill. I knew that bill. It was basically one side. The next 11 pages arrived this morning at the Sejm. And we have 12 pages of a pretty specialized law that needs to be considered, and it needs to be considered. And, of course, we're gonna correct it, for sure. Because she's not very detailed. She's too general. Therefore, I predict that we will correct it. Okay, but how did this happen? Well, we're... And we're based on carbon energy. But are we trying to change this mix recently? Have you guys been trying to change that lately? The Wind Power Act was so improved in your time that no one is building these plants anymore. And the water power plants? And the sea? That's the perspective. I don't know what time it is. Not much has happened here, Minister. Prosumer energy. There was a bill. It seemed like it was gonna work. That's changed, too. What does this prosumer energy look like? Is she developing? Well, we're in the state we're in, and we think, of course, we're gonna block the decarbonisation, we're gonna defend our carbon energy. Because we're right, we didn't join the Union, the Union was joining us. And we will force the Union to adapt and adapt to us. That's more or less the message. So I repeat: I understand that there is an election year, but this bill also introduces an element of uncertainty. Because the Minister said that in six months' time, an analysis will be carried out on whether or not this bill will continue next year. It creates a precarious situation. So I want to help here. And I will make an amendment so that this law applies in the election year, which is 2019, and in 2020. I think it'll help stabilize and help the government. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's very late, which is why I hesitated so much to take the news, but the subject is very important. That is why I would like to express myself briefly. Maybe I'll make some thought shortcuts, which I'm sorry about. I'm listening to this discussion. I've been listening to questions. It's hard to keep quiet when you hear things like that. The current situation, the current discussion... The current situation in energy is difficult, but it is due to many circumstances. E.g., well, evoked here... I call it the ideological approach of the European Union to CO2. There was a lot about it today. But at the same time, the real need for climate protection. Also Poland's delay, related to both the period of the Polish People's Republic and the period after 1989. Indeed, bad negotiations with the European Union, but also the need for a rapid development of our economy. Senator Jackowski, quoted here before the moment of world instability in this area: China, the United States, India, Brazil and others. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, many times cited here photovoltaics and wind turbines. After all, they are not indifferent to the environment either. Producing photovoltaic cells and then rendering them... But they haven't worked that long. It's the same with wind turbines. So all of this is not as obvious and unambiguous as many speakers have said. Often it was that the person who spoke, not only today, chose 1 or 2 of those elements that I replaced. I didn't name them all. And as if she were ideological, she was making a policy out of it. And plus, well, we also have an element of strategy and tactics. Well, unfortunately, the four-year parliamentary term is too short to develop and implement the strategy, and unfortunately it is very difficult to find a field of cross-party agreement in the implementation of the strategy. And maybe I'm not going to elaborate on that, because I think it's pretty obvious. Therefore, these profound simplifications and ideology, and policies make it difficult for us to agree here. Well, I heard one of the speakers today who spoke in such a poetic upheaval as people are dying because of CO2. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't do that. I've got scientific studies ahead of me, Professor... Please:.Problems with the climate and energy package. And AGH... It's a big book. It's just the two I had on hand. I wasn't going to speak, I only have them here in case we need to talk about it. After all, we know the correspondence of the luminaries of climate protection, who in emails completely discredited the views that are being held here. Of course, I'm an IT guy, but a few days ago, Professor, Senator Krystian Probier... This is where I printed my résumé. Lecturer: Bulgaria, Chile, Finland, Spain, Germany, Turkey, Vietnam; Professor at the Institute of Chemical Coal Processing, Dean of the Faculty of Mining and Geology of Silesian University of Technology are only fragments. And the senator, a few days ago, in this House, from this speaker, spoke very well about these matters. And of course I could print the transcript and repeat it, but it's late, isn't it? And three years in energy... Ladies and gentlemen, what is three years in energy? You can't say that. We know that the price of energy is very important, and it is good that there is this law that the Sejm supported it. And I hope we can support her, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u210	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Golba, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Indeed, High Izbo, the time is quite late, we are in the Christmas and New Year's season, but it's not too bad that night when we're first of all going to lower... do everything to make sure that the electricity doesn't go out of the way so that these increases don't go. So it's worth it even to spend the night. I do not hide that as a representative of Solidarna Polska... Already in 2013, we alarmed and called on Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform government to oppose the European Union's fatal proposal for Poland, which decided to destroy the production of electricity from coal. And yet in our country 90% electricity comes from coal. And in January 2014, the European Commission officially proposed a new plan for decarbonising energy, eliminating coal as an energy fuel by 2050. One of its components is a 43% reduction in CO2 by 2030 and an additional mechanism that artificially raised CO2 charges. In its opinion of 18 March 2014, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, dominated by the party Donald Tusk, concluded that this proposal is in fact a paratax instrument. Here, in this Chamber, the senators of this House, consisting in the majority of the Senators of the Civic Platform, appealed to Donald Tusk, even called him... they said that these instruments would keep the Polish economy going, that it is a tax, one can say, a new tax that will practically hit Polish companies, the Polish economy. But committees in the Seym and the Senate, also dominated by the politicians of the Civic Platform, called for the European Commission's proposal to be rejected as detrimental to the Polish economy. Commissions in the Polish Sejm and in the Polish Senate did everything to prevent this from happening. After all, most of them had the Civic Platform at the time. After all, many of you, Senators of the Civic Platform, were sitting here and you asked Donald Tusk not to do this so that he would not agree to this new instrument. Turns out he didn't listen to your requests. And it all hits, you can say, the chemical industry, the steel industry, the paper industry, mostly cement industry. For several months, we traveled all over Poland and encouraged local governments, encouraged various entrepreneurs to also appeal to the Polish government, to the Prime Minister, to the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform not to lead to energy consuming from 2019 onwards. But Donald Tusk didn't listen to you, he didn't listen to your appeal, you as parliamentarians, Members and Senators. And who did he listen to then? He listened to his German boss. [[Merkel.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mrs. Angela Merkel. That's right, Mr. Borowski has a good sense and a good point, he speaks well. Indeed, it was Mrs. Angela Merkel who was like Donald Tusk's leader and led him in this direction. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] It is not you as senators and Members at that time. It turns out that Donald Tusk has agreed to a further reduction for greenhouse gases to 43% up to 2030 and by 80% By 2050. He also agreed to a revised emissions trading system. This is precisely the significant increase in the cost of coal burning by the new administrative mechanism, called paratax instrument by the Senate of the previous term. So Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform are responsible for the dramatic price increase today in our country, but we, as responsible government, as responsible politicians, are doing everything we can to prevent this from happening. It so happened that this night is very important and significant for all of us here, especially for Poles and Poles, for Polish families. The point is not to lead to that. And the sad truth about Donald Tusk's government, about the Civic Platform, is that the sontekura for millions of zlotys he probably received... maybe for this decision that he, you can say, sold... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, it could be today... You as responsible senators, you as responsible politicians of the Civic Platform... What should you appeal for today? What practical position can be taken here in this House? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter, this is a very serious matter. Like Mr. Borowski said, we probably won't stop it, but we will do anything, this responsible government will do anything to prevent it from happening. But what can you give today, what position we as Parliament with regard to the former Prime Minister, today, truth, king of Europe... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter, only and only the Court of State for this man! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's just that. Ladies and gentlemen, for such a hit in Polish families, in Poles, in Polish companies, in Polish industry, only and exclusively. This should be a lesson for him in the future so that he will never return to rule again in his life. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Therefore, we as responsible politicians, we as responsible government will do everything to save Polish families, so that Polish families do not harm, do not destroy the Polish industry, the Polish economy. It's all our responsibility, our responsibility for the country. We take responsibility seriously, we take it seriously, you don't. With all due respect, you guys haven't done it under any circumstances. We could mention more of your incompetent actions that hit Polish industry, the Polish economy, the Polish family. Today we can only say that the Polish society feels these changes and feels this improvement. That's why this night is very important. I think she's gonna bring a lot of good. Therefore, let us not regret that we are here at these late hours, that we are working, that we are sitting. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo. [[Applause]] [[You've got five more minutes.]] [[Voice from the hall: This night is very important.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u212	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'll speak a little more constructively, because I think it would be good if this night ended with a joint vote in favour of this bill. That's where I'd like to start, but that's where I'd like to end up. Ladies and gentlemen, energy, as many serious areas of our life in Poland, are many years of neglect. In the case of such a powerful sector as energy... Well, it's known that the inertia this sector has is so huge that nothing happens from day to day, year to year, or maybe even from decade to decade. These are things that have a very long history, and they're gonna be weighing on us for a long time. No doubt many mistakes have been made. I think a lot of accusations have been made by now, many words about who is most guilty. But today we are facing a very specific situation. This is the situation which has been decided by the European Union institutions and which have led to a sharp increase in energy production prices. And that's just a fact that we have to act on. I also think it's completely obvious. And we had proof of that in the Sejm. In spite of a very turbulent debate, everything can ultimately end in a joint vote. It would be good for us to achieve something like this here, too. It should be noted that during the debate both in the Seym and in the Senate as well as earlier in the media, there were many unnecessary words about how terrible it is, because the state is trying to manually control the energy industry, it decides to do some extraordinary interference in this sector... Meanwhile, I think this is one of those sectors that you can see very clearly In Western European countries in particular, in those countries which have always been, as they are said, capitalist, that there are areas of extremely regulated economy, are often under very strong control of governments and there is no question of any free market, and in any case this free market is very limited. For the past 30 years, we have been trying to convince that in sectors such as health care, such as education, energy and other areas we need to surrender to the invisible hands of the free market and that it will do everything for us. And that's just not true. And that's what we're feeling right now. Of course, the state must intervene there, or it will simply be poor. I think it's a good thing we're in the middle of a discussion on the state's energy policy. And that's what we talked about. There's still time to make your remarks. The Ministry, when publishing this document as a project, did not decide that this would be the case, not the other way around. Even this percentage of energy coming from different areas in the energy mix by 2040 is not yet a decision, it is a proposal. And I think this is the moment to talk about it. But at the same time today there is simply no doubt that the decision to make in the near future Despite discussion in the meantime about what will happen next The State has given up what it can draw from energy, i.e. excise duty and a transitional levy, which has also been made in this Act... At the same time, it is decided that, if necessary, it will compensate for the extraordinary costs of energy producers and at the same time develop green energy. And I think there's nothing to add here, nothing to say for today. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, let me say this: I think it would be really good, not just for us here, but at all. 'Cause that would be a good signal, too. If we had voted in favour of this bill together. By the way, in some way, I would have traditionally asked the marshal who had tabled an amendment to withdraw this amendment. She really isn't needed for today. Let's all vote for this bill that the Sejm has adopted. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, let's make love.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka and Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senator Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond... [[No.]] ...to the amendments that have been tabled? [[No.]] Minister, do you want to take... I'm not asking Senator Borowski. I'm asking the Minister. I'm looking in that direction, but it's not for you. [[Exactly. That's what got me confused. I'm sorry.]] Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: No.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the adjournment. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. The vote on the bill will take place after the interruption and after the deliberations of these committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u215	The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of the requests submitted at the 70th Senate meeting will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the sitting in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u216	Thank you very much, Senator. The vote will take place at 2.35 p.m. Okay, so I'm declaring a break to 2.35. [[Adjournment from 2 minutes 05 to 2 minutes 35]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 23 and 24 January 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place during the session, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate and prepared a joint report. It is available in print No 1066 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Joint Committees of Budgets and Public Finances, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation request that the Act be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Bogdan Borusewicz or other Senator Mieczysław Augustyn still want to speak? There you go. [[From the point of view...]] [[Not that way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! We will, of course, not object to halting the sharp rise in energy prices for businesses, for the population. This is a dramatic moment, and we need to be ready to do this... [[For what?]] ...to give up very many reservations, to put aside concerns, whether what we are doing will be considered to be in line with European Union rules, and even overlook so many shortcomings of this law, except for the whole way it is carried out. After all, we remember that such high increases in energy prices would result in many businesses failing, and for many, especially poor pensioners, would be unbearable. That's why we won't object, but we want to believe that you're the last to take it, and it's a powerful bell. Don't ring the bell. It reminds us that further delay with a sharp course to implement a reasonable energy policy that will reduce CO2 emissions, a course for good management of energy companies, without this carousel of positions and no one knows how giant payments for subsequent outgoing management... [[Oh, dear, dear...]] ...will be completed... [[Oh, mores!]] ...that you will take appropriate control of the energy companies so that there is no suspicion that there is a price conspiracy between them. These are the obligations that must be fulfilled so that next year we do not talk about even greater increases that will affect both entrepreneurs, local governments and ordinary people. That is why I came out here to convey the position of our club, which urges us to move forward with the construction of prosumer energy, to support renewables, cheaper energy sources today, and to change the structure of the Polish energy mix, because this would be a real future response to the possibility of increasing energy prices. That's what this bill almost doesn't contain. It contains only a trace amount. Our amendments could, at least when it comes to competitiveness, help. You didn't accept their country. We regret this, but we remember that today's situation forces us to compromise. [[Applause]] [[We remember eight years, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u220	Thank you. Does Marshal Borusewicz still want to speak? [[Thank you. I said what I had to say.]] Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 76 in favour, no one opposed, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined, to which the Senator's delivery would not be possible at the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Any of you... I already know that Senator... You're welcome, Senator. 30 more minutes and you can start.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u221	Not even half a minute, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two brief statements. The first senator's statement is addressed to Mr. Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman. I was approached by Mr.J.P.'s family against whom two criminal cases were dealt with before the District Court in Nakle nad Notecy under the signature of Acts II K 588/15 and II K 37/17. They ended with this gentleman being assigned to a psychiatric ward of the Szczecin Detectives' detention facility. At the moment, an appeal is pending in the Bydgoszcz District Court. It's very complicated. It's complicated. From all the things that this gentleman's family has shown me, there may have been some oversight or irregularities. I know that the persons concerned, as well as the lawyers, have referred this gentleman to the Minister, the Ombudsman's Office. I wanted to support that request. I'd like to ask you to examine this case thoroughly. This is the first statement. [[Thank you... and the other one.]] And the second statement concerns me. [[Oh!]] Yes. I'm directing them to Mrs. Agnieszka Kaczmarska, head of the Sejm Office. There are a total of 4 parking spaces for disabled people in front of the New House on the left and on the right. The problem is, they're secured. electronic cones and for at least six months most of these cones, and sometimes all cones just don't work, do not lie down in the way they should lie down after applying a special card. Therefore, I would very much ask you to solve this problem. Thank you very much. I hope I didn't waste your time, Mr. Marshal, despite the late hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-28-senat-70-1.u222	No, no. Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 70th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 70th Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 2 minutes 45]]
