ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Kubov, Mr Weber, Mr Milewski and Mr Schreiber to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Rafał Weber. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Krzysztof Kubów and Daniel Milewski. I consider the minutes of the 64th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! On 22 June, Olga Krzesanowska - politician, social activist, doctor, Member of the Sejm X, I, II and III of the term of office, Deputy Marshal of the Sejm X and II of the term of office, as well as Senator V of the term of office died. Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. High Seym! The Council of Ministers submitted an urgent bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. This is print number 2663. I would like to inform the High Sejm that we discussed this issue at the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors Convention prior to the beginning of the session. This printing and this request came from the government this morning, asking the government, from the Prime Minister, to take it as an urgent project. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 73. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I decided to complete the agenda by a point covering the examination of this draft. I would like to inform you at the same time, I remind you, because this was the subject of discussion, that we have a special chapter in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm: "Proceeding with urgent draft laws, in which chapter, in his second article, concerning the printing of an urgent draft, paragraph. 1 reads: The Marshal of the Sejm shall manage the printing of urgent billings as soon as they are received. That's what happened. On the other hand, the mouth. Article 1 73, concerning the first reading of the urgent draft, reads as follows: The first reading of the urgent draft law shall be held at a meeting of the Sejm or of the committee. The Marshal of the Sejm may order a first reading without keeping the time limit laid down in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. This applies to a 7-day deadline. This is the article I used when I ordered a first reading without keeping the deadline. This is, ladies and gentlemen, as is apparent from the justification that will be presented by a government representative, a brief amendment of the IPN Act, which is to delete two provisions, is a matter of Article. 55a and Article 55a 55b, with consequences. There are two consequences there, in this amendment that we voted on in January this year. I remind you that the committee's report before the third reading at all times has not been the subject of the final work of the Sejm for almost a year. These consequences and these two articles raised doubts of the President of Poland, the Ombudsman and the Attorney General regarding compliance with the Constitution. As I understand it, the Prime Minister makes this statement in his statement. This is the reason for this change, and the proposal by the Council of Ministers to recognise this draft law as an urgent project allows for such a procedure. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in a joint discussion in the first readings of the draft laws concerning the Waste Act and the Environmental Inspection Act. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of authorised entities to report on current information and questions, these points will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. Formal proposals have been made by Members. Member Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform. Please prepare your applications in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I request a break and a call for the Senior Convention so that the Government can present to the High House information on the hearing in the Council of the European Union concerning the rule of law. [[Applause]] We would like to see the allegations, questions and answers and commitments that the Polish Government adopted yesterday in Luxembourg. We would like to get acquainted with this because the possible consequences of the violation of the rule of law are extremely serious and unfortunately it can end in such a way that citizens will pay for the violation of the rule of law and the constitution. That is why we would like the government to provide information on this matter. There is also a question of European issues related to the change of the European Parliament's electoral ordination, which is scandalous in our view. We would like to know the government's position on both of these matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Article. Paragraph 184. 2 states that the formal proposals may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. This point isn't... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...the subject of the agenda and, as we all know, under the Rules of Procedure, requests must be made in writing on the agenda by the day before the end of the day. 21. The Seniors' Convention on this issue was discussed at its meeting. It was found that I would address the Prime Minister in writing with the announcement of such a proposal, which would be tabled on the eve of the next session of the Sejm. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on behalf of the Posel Club Modern request for a break, convening the Senior Convention and introducing a point: the information of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on the motives, the actual motives of today's extraordinary meeting of the Sejm. [[There was a convention, you should have...]] I, with full respect to your marshal, accept the information you have provided, but it seems to me that if the Sejm is called in such an extraordinary manner, then such information should be communicated from the Prime Minister himself. As you know, today's session of the Sejm has been convened for the Sejm to deal with the package of laws so-called. junkyards, the Waste Act, the Environmental Inspection Act. It is true that for 30 months there was an uncontrolled inflow of waste to Poland. This was accompanied by huge fires. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We were to be a country of high technology, to drive a million electric cars around Poland, and we became one big waste dump for the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u5	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u6	This is the effect of 30 months of PiS rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u7	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u8	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm based on art. Paragraph 184. 3 item 1 please, on behalf of our club, for an hour on the exact item on the agenda that you have just announced. We are to discuss a very important law, a law that actually affects the Polish state - the amendment of the law on IPN. I would like to remind you that in January, when speaking from this speaker on behalf of the European Union of Democrats, Stefan Niesiołowski predicted this situation, which we are facing today, that this amendment... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...in express mode carried out by the Sejm, by the Senate, signed by the President, and then addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal, criticized completely by the author of this amendment, i.e. the Minister of Justice, caused great damage to Poland, and again proceding it in such a manner derogates the Polish parliament. I know that you have accustomed us and Poland to the fact that you rule Poland like the Olsen gang. But don't sign us up for this gang. [[Voice from the room: What are you screaming about?]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u9	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that this was not an express mode. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, I think the bill went to the Sejm... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: This is another law.]] ...at the beginning of 2017 the project was... [[Voice from the hall: But he lay down, lay down.]] ...we received a report from the committee, so it was prepared for third reading, for voting, and the Sejm, the High Chamber, had almost a year to reflect, because the vote took place at the beginning of this year, in 2018. But there's a request for a recess on this point, which means I accept it. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Please take this House seriously and take us seriously. You're manipulating the rules today, and what's more, you're leaking false information. The amendment of the IPN Act - what you now want to bring to the agenda as a matter of urgency - is in the drawer of the Civic Platform because we have been waiting for the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. This was the reason for not putting this printing on the agenda. Today, too, you do not want to hold a debate on this subject on the basis of our proposal, and you are introducing an urgent procedure in the back door, ignoring the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Applause]] On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 I would extend this proposal by Mr Protasiewicz, because Members should be given written reasons why they urgently want today [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, introduce the I.P.N. Act. I'm gonna need an hour off. 12 and in writing a reasoned request from the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u11	Thank you very much. I am only in a hurry to explain to you... [[Take your time.]] ...that it is to respect the rules of the Sejm... [[Where's our bill?]] ... Because Chapter 2, I remind you once again, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[A voice from the hall: You're a charmer.]] ...pt. Following urgent bill projects... [[Voice from the hall: Secretary laughs.]] ...in art. 73, which concerns the first reading of an urgent project... I've been quoting the Sejm's rules all the time. [[But there's our bill.]] Paragraph 1 is replaced [[And why is he so urgent all of a sudden?]] ...sounds: The first reading of the urgent draft law shall be held at a meeting of the Sejm or committee. And the second sentence: the Marshal of the Sejm may order a first reading without proper deadlines. [[But what is his urgency?]] Other conclusions... I would like to remind you that when it comes to requests for urgent proceedings with draft laws, the right to do so is the sole competence of the Council of Ministers, the government. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: But we do not know why it is urgent.]] And it's written in the Constitution, in the article. 123 constitutions. On the other hand, other parliamentary requests are not conducted as a matter of urgency, but as an ordinary procedure, so please do not mislead the High House that there is no respect for the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, a request for a break has been made. There is a request for a break without indicating the length and an application for an hour break. I'm asking for a break... [[Twelve o'clock.]] And by the hour. 12 - three conclusions. I will put to the vote a request for a break as far as possible, i.e. by noon. 12. If it's accepted, we'll have a break by the hour. 12. If it is not accepted, then those proposals will be unobtrusive. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering an adjournment until 3 p.m. 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 161 voted against - 239, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the urgent government draft law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment (print No 2663). I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk to present the justification for the bill. Minister, if you'll excuse me, there's still a request to read your messages before you speak. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u12	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - to State Control - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 13.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 2.30 p.m., - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Basic Health Care and Prevention and Parliamentary Team diabetes mellitus - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - immediately after the votes, about an hour. 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u13	Thank you very much. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda. I now ask Minister Michał Dworczyk to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are all aware of the strength of the consequences and memory of the Second World War, this terrible period of martyrdom and heroism of Poles, still affect the lives of us and the whole nation. They are being discussed lively and have political significance and international consequences. The Polish nation attacked in 1939, first by German troops and then the Soviets, never gave up, never went to collaboration. Polish society, civil and military structures of the underground state, government in exile, all political forces, cultural elites, as they could, by act and word opposed the criminal actions of the German invader towards Polish citizens, including the terrible extermination of the Jewish nation. The experiences of that generation, our ancestors, are for us a continuing commitment to defend the truth about Polish fate in the period of World War II here, in Poland, but also outside our country. Unfortunately, the opinions presented there are too often hurtful and scrappy. The change in this state of affairs, the defence of historical truth has been, is and remains, for the Government of Law and Justice and the current parliamentary majority, one of the fundamental tasks, all the more so since this area has been neglected for many years before. Worse still, events and opinions which duplicate the distorted image of the past have been promoted and financed. Over the past two and a half years, our government has taken a number of steps to correct this situation. We've set up the Totalitarian Research Centre for them. rtm. Pilecki and the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity, we started building the Museum of Polish History, we led to the elimination of the violations in some Polish museums, we started an active fight for defending Poland's good name abroad through our diplomatic offices, we finally tried to stop the wave of untruths about Polish fate during the German occupation, an attempt to prevent Poles from assigning responsibility for the crimes committed and carried out by the German occupier by amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. However, an effective policy is to constantly adapt the methods to the best achievement of the overarching objective. The pure intentions of our government, in no element aimed at restricting freedom of speech or freedom of scientific research, have been misinterpreted, and have sometimes been cynically violated. In this situation, we have launched a dialogue aimed at clarifying misunderstandings and developing better solutions. Thanks to the talks conducted since January this year, we managed to make many of our foreign partners aware of how untrue and hurtful it is for Poland to duplicate the lie about responsibility or co-ownership of Poland and the Polish people for the Holocaust carried out by the Germans during World War II. We have done a lot and we are still doing something to show the opposition of the Polish society to the crimes of the German occupier and the assistance provided to victims by numerous institutions of the then underground state, by a large part of the Polish society. High Izbo! Once again, I would like to make it clear: Criminal responsibility was never an end in itself, it was only meant to be an instrument to fight for historical truth. Today it must be stated that its effective protection is also possible through other measures and actions that our government has taken over the last months, which I have just informed the High House about. We believe that these actions will be an effective tool in the fight for the historical truth and the good name of Poland and will contribute to the worship of all the victims of this most terrible war. At the same time, I would like to stress very clearly that the civil law tools in which the Institute of National Remembrance was armed in January this year may, in our opinion, be more effective than the criminal path, given recent experience. The President of the Council of Ministers will speak about this in a moment, speaking in the High House. High Izbo! In view of the above, I present to you a draft amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, which was prepared by the government to repeal the article. 55a and Article 55a 55b talking about criminal liability for the public imputation to the Polish nation or the Polish state of responsibility for Nazi crimes committed by the Third Reich. High Izbo! I am convinced that the Polish state is common to us. It is for us gathered in this room, for us Poles a very high value. I believe that the fight for the good name of Poland is at our heart. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Therefore, I ask the High House to support the bill submitted and to support the government on this difficult way of fighting for the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u15	Thank you, Minister. I would remind the Sejm that in the discussion on this item he would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Ryszard Terlecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to move forward, you have to take a step backwards sometimes. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But at what cost, at what cost.]] A few months ago, we adopted a law aimed at reminding the media, politicians, the public who was responsible for the crimes committed during World War II. [[Turns out it was the Poles. Thanks to you, it turned out to be Poles.]] We wanted the public also to be aware that we will defend the historical truth about our past, that we will remind you that the government of the Republic of Poland stood throughout the Second World War in the position of defending Polish citizens of Jewish origin, standing in the position of defending Jews exterminated by German invaders in Poland. The government delegation to the country responsible for implementing government decisions in the country in the underground punished those who collaborated with German invaders, including the extermination of the Jewish nation. Poland was the only country in Europe in which not only the death penalty but also the collective responsibility and death penalty for the family of the person who provided such assistance were threatened for helping the Jews. We wanted all this to be reminded to become part of public knowledge in Poland, in Europe, in the world. And that's what we've achieved. On the other hand, the change that we are making today is due to the beliefs that we have expressed in this law. I remind you that we have written there that we will not refer either to scientific research or to works of art, but we wanted - we wanted - this law not to contain an element of judicial punishment, because the instruments that allow the courts to continue to function, there is no need to make this situation worse. We have met with misunderstandings, with various opinions that harm us. We do not want to burden our policy with them, so we have decided to amend the IPN Act in such a way that we withdraw those elements that allow the application of judicial penalties for misinformation or incorrect views on historical policy. I would like to remind you that the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL - our predecessors - did not want to conduct historical policy, and if it was conducted it, it was often contrary to the Polish state and contrary to the expectations of Poles. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. 51 point 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I request that you join the second reading immediately after the end of the first without referring the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment, print No 2663, to the committee. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u17	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You've used a ruse today to measure your rudeness. A meeting of the Sejm was convened in connection with urgent government waste laws, on the Environmental Protection Inspection, and suddenly at night - an indictment: the IPN Act. But let's confront, High Izbo, your declarations. We as the opposition, we as the Civic Platform warned you, but you didn't listen. Vice-Marshal Beata Mazurek tweeted January 28th: We will not change any provisions in the IPN Act. Patrick Jak, today a great absent, author of international successes of this law: The IPN Act is written really well. This day, this situation, this style is your big embarrassment. [[Applause]] Today, publicly, in front of the High House, in front of the Polish society and in front of the international community, you admit your mistake. Within six months you destroyed Polish-Israeli relations, Polish-American relations, Polish-Ukrainian relations. That's what you're responsible for. The father of this success, Patrick Jaki, is not in this room. We're cleaning up after Patrick Jake today. [[Applause]] [[He chickened out!]] I understand that today he kneels in the Opole church and says: My fault, my fault, my very big fault. I understand that he was ashamed to come to us today and apologize for this bill. There is, however, another matter, Mr. Marshal, which concerns you, equally disgraceful. You've been blocking the Civic Platform project since February 20th. We could improve this bill within a month, avoid international embarrassment, embarrassment before the anniversary of March 1968, compromise before the anniversary of the Warsaw ghetto uprising. You did this for six months - it has been over six months since the Civic Platform submitted the bill - he did not want to allow it. Another embarrassment, another demonstration of your standards, your customs and your practice. You also wanted to block the opposition, you wanted the President of the Polish-Israeli Parliamentary Group to remain silent about this disgraceful bill. Marshal Mazurek and the PiS club canceled in a bad way, breaking the rules, President of the Polish-Israeli Parliamentary Group. I'll remind you of those facts. Information that Marshal Mazurek is calling for an hour. The 17th meeting of this group, the opposition received a text message at 3 p.m. 17. It's also a big scandal. I would like Mr Ardanowski, who was so eager to be president of the Polish-Israeli Parliamentary Group, to tell us everything he has done, where he is now, what he does. This is a big embarrassment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Horses.]] [[Voice from the hall: A calf.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is also no excuse for you to have politicized the justice system. You want to know, High Izbo, how did they do it? How are they already using a stubborn KRS today? The Civic Platform, Mr Rafał Grupiński, submitted a draft on 20 February 2018. Your project is very different, but the KRS has already issued an opinion in May. The opinion on the amendment is negative. What did we anticipate? We predicted that we would stop doing this kind of thing. Today, Minister Dworczyk is very happy to say that you are retreating, but your KRS has already spoken its opinion. Participative KRS, consisting of the nominates of Kukiz and PiS, negatively reviews your project because it did so in a situation where such a project was companyed by the opposition. We're gonna be working on this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But at the same time - what we want to say clearly - this is the day of your embarrassment. It'll be remembered... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u20	...and you won't wash that sin so easily. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u21	Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, we're very upset about what's going on in this room today. We still have a constitution, Art. 123, which makes it very clear that such a project cannot be dealt with as a matter of urgency. And it's not just because of the constitution. [[Applause]] The urgency procedure is reserved for key system issues, for key competence issues, not for the IPN Act, which previously, as the Marshal himself said, we have been proceeding for 1.5 years, and what came out came out. Then I have a question: Why do we want to destroy it even more urgently at this moment? Let's talk about it. We have made clear proposals on how the IPN Act should be amended. You should return - I address the majority of the government - to your project from the previous term, which was wise, thoughtful and could not irritate anyone. But at the moment, you're actually retreating just because something was thoughtless. The fact that the project is urgent must not result from the thoughtlessness of something, the urgent project concerns something that is systemicly important. Therefore, we ask that you review your opinion and focus on systemic issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u23	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! What do you PiS Members want to achieve through this project? A few months ago, you were enthusiastic about clapping your hands and accepting the previous version of this bill. You're pulling out of this today. You just don't have a spine, you don't have a spine, you don't have a spine, and if you do, you have a spiral -- if they push you one way, you bounce back and you go the other way. [[Applause]] This is an outrageous situation. Mr. Marshal spoke very rightly and beautifully about the need to defend the good name of Poland. Also Minister Dworczyk in his explanatory memorandum [[Speech Off the Microphone]] - Don't bother me - he pointed out that the PiS would do anything about it. You're not really doing anything. Moreover, you are compromising Poland - not only the government, the parliament, but the whole of Poland. For a year now, the Marshal's freezer has had a resolution on establishing a day of memory of the Polish victims of concentration camps, German concentration camps. You don't have the guts to process this resolution. You adopted an IPN bill that was dead. Once again this issue in such a narrow section shows the lack of consequences and long-term thinking about the historical policy of the Polish state. The last amendment of the law on IPN caused a great wave of criticism, was politically ill-considered, which is not justified even by the legitimate intentions of defending the good name of the Polish people. It introduces the provisions of Article. 55a proved to be legally impossible, and badly presented and explained caused a political storm, which undoubtedly caused damage to Poland and Poles in the international arena. The current heat-up of the topic and the changes made, although partly correct the situation, are a mistake, in the eyes of many critics confirming this negative interpretation of the previous amendment for Poland. Repealed Article 55a was good, first of all he clarified not only the matter of protecting the good name of Poland and Poles, but also the identification of Nazi crimes. I know it's incomprehensible to many of you, but it was really important. To that end, this clarification should be transferred to Article. 1 Act on IPN to indicate once and for all clearly what is being prosecuted and on what basis and therefore prevent false interpretations of the provisions of the Act. Clarification concerning the incorrect assignment to the nation or the Polish State of participation in the crimes of the Third Reich, but also other state entities, could be introduced directly into the article. 55 and not create additional articles. 55a and Article 55a 55b, which are now being repealed as troublesome and ineffective. Resignation of the January amendment in Article 55a criminal prosecution of perpetrators of violations of the good name of the Republic of Poland and its citizens is so right that the article mentioned. 55 in paragraph. 1 introduced criminal liability, but so you formulated the law, that in your mouth. 2 and 3 indicated gates to avoid any legal liability. It was therefore completely ineffective and therefore unfounded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u25	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to ask why we're suddenly discussing this amendment. I'll ask why we're doing this so late. If it could be placed on the agenda of this meeting suddenly, this morning, why didn't you report it as soon as it turned out that your changes to the IPN Act have led to an uproar of opinions about Poland all over the world? Why didn't you bring it in? [[Applause]] These amendments, when we called for it, when that bill was in the Senate? High Izbo! Almost six months ago, the present PiS government caused the biggest crisis of Poland's reputation in the 21st century, and the man who is a kind of father of this embarrassment, i.e. the Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro, is still smiling from government benches today. [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero!]] It was because of the bill prepared by the Ministry of Justice that the slanderous wording about Polish death camps tens of millions of times was searched in various kinds of search engines, appeared in the international press. The entire management of the Ministry of Justice should pay for this embarrassment with their political careers. In the meantime, not only is the Minister of Justice himself still in office, but for example. One of his deputies, Mr. Patrick Jak, becomes a candidate for president of the capital. [[Applause]] High Izbo! The consequences of this compromise, which was prepared by the Ministry of Justice and by the PiS government, are not only the popularization of a very harmful phrase about Polish death camps, but also a huge blow to Polish-Israeli relations, a powerful blow to allies with the United States. Let us just remind you that after the adoption of this PiS bill from Washington, we received very disturbing signals. The United States Department of State, Congressmen, spoke critically about this. There was information that the American president wouldn't even want to meet with PiS politicians. So? We have half a year, President Trump has already met with the North Korean leader this year... [[Voice from the room: He meets.]] ...and for the President of the Republic there is still no time in his calendar. That's the piss policy effect. [[Applause]] And we can be sure that the negative consequences will unfortunately be much, much more serious than the lack of direct talks. High Izbo! Unfortunately, this is not the end of the dramatic consequences brought by the bill prepared by the Minister of Justice. Immediately after this law entered into force and critical voices began to appear to it, Poland flooded the largest wave of anti-Semitism since 1968, which exploded as a reaction to the criticism of this evil PiS law on IPN. It would be possible to quote these other anti-Semitic entries, comments, statements, e.g. in social media, phrases such as.parchy, mockery of Jewish death camps appearing on public television, the PiS-Senator who published a film of Goebbels propaganda, such as a Jew chasing the Jew to death. Yeah, it's also a grim effect of PiS politics. High Izbo! There is only one very important point that needs to be pointed out: the very way this novel is prepared. The government has prepared it without any consultation. He did not ask the opinion of any interested community or experts. This is not really about avoiding errors in this bill, because in a novel that fits halfway through the page, it would be really difficult - even you - to make a mistake. But this is simply about showing respect, showing respect to all those people and environments who have been offended by the PiS government in the life of the IPN Act. High Izbo! Finally, I would like to say about this amendment that it is better late than never, and once again to ask: Why is it so late? Why did so much have to be destroyed in Polish-Jewish relations, in Polish-Israeli relations, in Polish-United States relations? Why did you have to spoil so much about the atmosphere in Poland? [[You're ruining the atmosphere.]] Why did you allow this anti-Semitism cesspool to be wiped out? Why were you delayed for six months? Prime Minister, these are questions for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u27	Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are such rumors in the Seym - I understand that they are regrettable and false - that the main reason for this suddenness is that Mr Morawiecki very much wants to be invited to the American embassy on 4 July. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] If that's the case, Prime Minister, then you did it. Enjoy your meal. Just don't choke on it. By the way, I would also ask you, Mr Morawiecki, not to deal with history, because if you have already introduced such truths that Hungary was an ally of Poland in the Second World War, while Hungary was Hitler's most faithful ally to the end, you were kind to say that Katyn is Germany, then take care of the banks. [[PSL, aren't you ashamed of his speech?]] Because I'm sure a lot of people here expect you to do something useful in this area. As you observe what the PiS do here, the whole show of Mr. Dworczyk's hypocrisy, as you observe this example of at least stretching the rules, is asked to quote, probably respected even in the PiS, Stefan Kisielewski, who in the Journals, in one of the volumes... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Jesus, what idiots! We're in charge. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I'd say that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? [[It was about yourself.]] Mr. Suski, I would say this: I did not want to quote, but one of the philosophers of the 19th century said: people are divided into two races - thinking and thinking. I'm not gonna tell you which one I'd count on. So keep your mouth shut, Mr. Suski, Caryco Catherine the Great. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u29	Mr. Simpson, how do you... [[Voice from the Chamber: Quotes the Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u30	On the other hand, as far as this bill is concerned, many things have already been said. You guys could... You're diplomatic geniuses. Whatever's better. Mr. Waszczykowski - I will not speak again. Mr. Chaputovich could fight us with America, with Israel, he could fight us with Ukraine. So congratulations. Now, of course, you're calling off this bill in agreement. It seems like something like that, if I understand it correctly, because you're talking a little vaguely, Mr. Marshal. But as far as I can tell, it's a bit like Lenin's: you take two steps forward, step backwards. So you're doing something like this. [[This gentleman needs to be locked up in a straitjacket.]] That is of course good - PSL and UED will support this project. He is, of course, imperfect. A brief comment, however. I would ask you to spare yourselves the exchange of your merits in the field of history, so that you may not mention any of the PiS institutions, foundations, institutes, establishments where you hire your friends. Maybe Mrs. Pleasant would be nice to tell you where her son works. It seems that Mr. Anthony's driver, as far as I'm concerned - if someone else, I don't know them well - got a government job, too. All those institutions that Mr. Dworczyk has mentioned as a cause for pride, that is rather a reason for shame, because they are an institution forging history. The PiS, who impudently, constantly counterfeits history, I would ask him not to talk about his work in this field. As the invaluable Jerzy Kryszak said, it was to you, the PiS-Offers: "False guardians of memory should not give you advice - that is, history - they want to twist the cat's tail, but there are still some rules. [[Applause]] You're not gonna make it. You can't fake history. No Courtman, no Morawiecki, no Whatever will help. By the way, where is Mr. What? It was his triumph. He was jumping for joy in this place. He said, "Great bill, and you applauded." You were recklessly applauding him and jumping with him. I don't remember if you sang "Long live Poland," but something like that. Mr. What he's hiding now. Mr. Jak, show yourself. Now, explain why you then proclaimed this bill as a triumph of truth and triumph of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we have here an example of unparalleled hypocrisy. In fact, the principle of such decency, respect for the truth, for dignity would order this project of hypocrisy to be rejected, but there is still a political right. It wouldn't be understandable in the world. This is of course a tiny step in the right direction, that at least part of this idiotism that PiS is pushing here will be overthrown. For this reason alone, our parliamentary club will vote in favour of erasing this PiS idiotism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u31	Mr Kornel Morawiecki, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I ask the High House not to share... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...they didn't share in the great tragedy of World War II, the millions of victims... [[But you're doing it.]] ...on the murder of Polish Jews, the nation of Polish Jews. Please don't let us share in this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u33	Thank you. Twelve ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The first question is obvious and clear, someone would like to say formal. Namely, on June 20th, 4 months have passed since we amended the Act on IPN. Where's our bill? Why didn't the marshal put her under discussion after the four-month deadline for her possible preparation and evaluation? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that it is a great shame that, after such a disgraceful bill, which actually has caused great damage to the whole world of the Republic of Poland and to all of us as its citizens for months, now suddenly, without using our previous proposals, you are pushing the knee of this kind of change. These changes are necessary and necessary, but I would like to announce that we will report additional changes, including. concerning Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the [[♪ The bell ♪]] to eliminate fatal records on Ukrainian issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u35	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u36	High Izbo! Marshal Terlecki, when he presented his position as a club of Law and Justice, spoke so quietly as if he were ashamed. Yeah, it's a shame. It's a shame, it's a disgrace. You guys are embarrassingly funny about what you're doing, embarrassingly funny. You fell on your knees in front of your partners. Poland is on its knees because of you. And short questions. Prime Minister, will the Minister for this crap bear any consequences for this legal bullshit? Because it's his responsibility. Would you apologize for significantly lowering the Polish international position, for the fact that the president, when he goes to the United States, is traveling in principle because no one wants to see him? Are you guys gonna apologize for this? This is our embarrassment, and you know it. So the question is: Will the minister who is not here be removed from the government for preparing such a compromising project? Will you apologize for destroying your relationship with the United States, Israel and Ukraine? Why was this project adopted so urgently? Next Tuesday we have a session of the Sejm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, in that case, I guess... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u37	Mr Eugeniusz Troublek, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! When we voted in favour of this amendment, we followed, as Marshal Terlecki said, the purity of our intentions. We did not want Poles to talk about Polish death camps in the world. We didn't allow it. He thinks there's a subtext that was later revealed that maybe we want to gag the mouth of those who are trying to get the truth about those days. I have always said: there are no good and no bad nations, there are good and bad people. I have two questions. First question: If we accept this amendment, does this mean that Polish justice will not be able to prosecute these people or those institutions that will continue to speak consciously or unconsciously about Polish death camps? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And just the second question: Have we also anticipated changes to the Civil Code? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u39	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Unfortunately, all this fuss around the IPN has shown the enormous weakness of the Polish state, which is completely unprepared, and this was seen, in a very crisis situation, and we had a crisis situation. In fact, all of a sudden, our victim became an assailant. No one could explain it. All of it, I'd say, you dropped the propaganda on very sturdy TV. All that bullshit every day, I don't think I've ever heard, and I'm not the only one. It's worth learning from that. Well, it's a good thing you're jumping to conclusions and pulling out of these two points, but I have this question: What happened to you, who put the so-called one on you? a gun to the head that in such an urgent manner, without waiting [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the decision of his... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is still the night - it is the title of the book by Prof. Barbara Engelking and Prof. Jan Grabowski, who in two powerful volumes describe how Poles denunced Jews, how they became painters and led to the death of people who fled the wagons that were going to Auschwitz. We must break with the myth that all Poles helped victims of World War II. We must break the myth that Poles helped Jews during World War II as spectacularly as you would like to write it down in your consciousness. That's not what happened. We need to remind Silke. Please think about what happened to our consciousness, why such deep anti-Semitism lies in Polish society, where it came from. I, uh... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u43	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u44	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Who's gonna apologize to the Poles? Prime Minister, who will apologize to the Poles for making them such a bill that you have broken society? Marshal Terlecki said that there are good intentions, but good intentions of hell are paved and the state has prepared such a hell for Poland. It wasn't a Polish state right. Where were you when the Senators of the Civic Platform pointed out that this was a bad bill? Today you're retreating from cancer. Where is Mr What? Because he and your government should be the political responsibility in this room. We are patriots and all things connected with World War II, with the tragedy of Poles, with the tragedy of Jews we respect, and the state trampled on it [[♪ The bell ♪]] and divided the Poles. Apologize. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! You announced the marshal all the way back, well, it's worth making this move sometimes. But you're crooks, but don't fool us, because everyone knows you were proud of this project, you clapped, you sang. Indeed, a visit to the embassy is important, Minister, but since you have said that you will not give in to anyone, no external strength, please take us seriously. Who did you give in to, who did you give in to, and why? The Americans? Israel? Ukrainians? What's the rush? What is this urgent procedure? And once again, I ask you to take this House seriously. [[But a hamburger would eat?]] Who did you give in to make this change in this mode? [[Applause]] [[What do you mean, who? Hamburger...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u47	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! These unbelievable damage done by the previous law is simply the result of PiS arrogance and that you are not normally able to work on such difficult laws. The rush with which the Senate worked when it was possible to make corrections caused these terrible damage, because already then it could be improved. Now you're doing it again with an incredible rush. Where are the opinions of Polish historians who deal with the Holocaust? Where are the opinions of the Polish scientific institutions that deal with this problem, which protested against that law, issued their opinions, presented their positions? In this law, which you are proposing, there is nothing about Ukrainian matters, which are also wrongly formulated in the current text of the Act. Your amendment doesn't change that. There is still a record of institutions that have placed themselves in the task of defending the good name of Poland and can sue for the good name of Poland of anyone: President Obama, whomever they want. This law will continue to contain very harmful elements if we do not work well on it, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u49	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u50	High Izbo! I sit and look at the right side of the room, I look at Mr. Morawiecki and I just feel sorry for you. Of course, you can say that there is a step forward, but it does not result from your wisdom, it follows that you have been forced to do so, and well. Minister Dworczyk hypocritically praised the success of the PiS, as you create historical politics. On the other hand, the representative of the PiS club, the president of this club, says that we actually did it on purpose to make others aware of the tragedy of the Polish people. You have made the idea of Polish death camps aware of what is a historical lie. I have a question for the Prime Minister. That question has already been asked. It's also about Minister Jaki, of course, but Minister Jaki has his boss. What consequences do you have against them, Mr Morawiecki? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u51	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It was supposed to be a big success, it was a big screw-up. When it comes to the face of Poland on the international stage, which was the result of this fatal act, it is impossible to change, costs - uncountable. The damage that we will continue to suffer as a nation for many years is simply unspeakable. You came to this, but unfortunately very late, when many damage can no longer be repaired. But better late than later, I'm told it's a proverb. So, well, you're repairing, only if you've grown to it with this gun attached to your head that you need to fix this fatal bill a little bit, then, Prime Minister, why not do it normally, with expert opinions, in normal procedure, in normal sitting of the Sejm, with the opinions of the committee, and correct other errors that are in this bill as well? After all, the entire opposition declared its willingness to cooperate in this area and... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. [[Mr. Marshal, it's a good habit to at least let you finish your sentence.]] [[The voice from the room: Something like that.]] Madame, we need to be in time. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the moment when we are waiting for Prime Minister Morawiecki to speak. He should come to this House in a moment and apologize for this bill, apologize for the six months that the government has brought about by a government project. It wasn't a parliamentary project, it wasn't a project that was written at night. It was a project under which the signature of Beata Szydło, sitting in the second row today, was placed. You must apologize for that, too. Apologize for Karczewski, who, like pendolino, pushed this project through the Senate. Apologize for Duda for keeping a pen in his hand waiting for her to sign this bill. These are all consequences of your actions. But I would also like to thank you, because at a time when this law was in force, civil society was quite clear: not on our behalf, this law was not passed on our behalf, it was on your behalf... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u55	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Poles perfectly remember the chaos in which the previous version of the IPN Act was created. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We all remember very well that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was warned by the Americans about the consequences of these regulations for months before the vote. And then what happened? As Minister Jak said, it wasn't until after the vote that he found out about this memo. In such a mess, the state makes such important records. And today, during the parliamentary debate, this extra pilgrimage, the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not take the floor of Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, who went to Israel to negotiate the text of this law. We don't know anything about any agreement with the American side today. We do not know anything about the agreement with the Ukrainian party. Like today, any of the parliamentarians, any of the Poles, can be certain that this law or your actions will not cause further conflicts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Dworczyk will now speak at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome. [[The voice from the hall: Prime Minister is ashamed!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I'd like to refer to the basic... [[Voice from the room: Where's the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister was supposed to perform.]] ...the most important charge. Madam, I would like to reassure you that the Prime Minister is about to speak. In the beginning, I would like to refer to the basic plea which states that this procedure is unconstitutional, that urgency is reserved for acts of the system. I would like to remind you that Article. 123 of the Constitution states that the Council of Ministers may declare the bill urgent, except for the draft tax laws, the laws concerning the election of the President, the local authorities, the laws governing the system. So it is the system laws, their designs that cannot be processed in this mode, and the act that we are working on today can be processed as a matter of urgency. [[It can't be. Applies to the system and properties.]] We have legal opinions on this. That's one thing. Secondly, there have been a lot of invectives and accusations in this room, which, frankly, do not have much in common with the substantive discussion. But I would like to remind you - some have said that too quickly, others that too slowly, some that submission, others that too much hardness - as politicians one: political maturity and responsibility for the state are to draw conclusions from the changing external and internal political situation. [[Applause]] [[Mistakes, mistakes.]] And that is what we are doing because we are guided by the good of our country, the good of Poland. And we urge you to do the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, will now speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before any further words come out here, very harsh and hurtful to the Polish people, before any misconceptions about our intentions fall, I wanted one thing very strongly. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] stress, however, which is probably clear to all of us - that the purpose of this law was, and continues to be, one fundamental message, the fight for the truth of the times of World War II and postwar times, but especially the terrible times of World War II. After all, you know very well - we have participated in this in the last 30 years - how much this truth has been lied about. And that's why this bill, a kind of shock, was needed. That's why the whole world started... [[That's how everyone found out...]] ...to talk about it and that is why today we already have at least so much that no one in the world will talk about the Polish death camps without punishment, and the chancellor of Germany [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and the German Foreign Minister clearly point to Germany's sole guilt for causing World War II and carrying out the terrible crime of the Holocaust, the extermination of Polish Jews, and, of course, the extermination of a large part of Poles. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] After all, we have recently begun to explain our sins to others. When I say last time, I mean last years. After all, there was a TV show - I will no longer mention by whom, but you know - I mean our mothers and our fathers, and there the AK soldiers murdered Jews, and as good people, soldiers of the Wehrmacht were presented as good characters. High Izbo! We have been able as a nation to unite around great goals, such as joining NATO, joining the European Union. Today, too, we should unite around this goal, because not only are we not giving up on anything, we have done much more on a good cause than we have assumed, because we have awakened awareness all over the world. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the room: In the imagination.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Paradoxically, it happened in fact that these most strict laws, those concerning criminal law, aroused so much controversy that they began to act counterproductively, and of course those who say that the Polish people or the Polish state bear any responsibility for the crimes of World War II, should be imprisoned, but we are acting in international realities and these international realities are taken into account. [[Applause]] That is why - it was mentioned here, and at the same time I answer these questions - not only do we maintain this law, but even the entire chapter 6c concerns all civil law instruments. He is entitled: Defend the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation. It is together that we defend this good name of the Polish people and the good name of the Republic, I think we all want it. The publisher in the United States or somewhere in Germany will think twice today before publishing an article with the wording of the Polish SS, the Polish Gestapo or the Polish concentration camps, as the sword of the civil law process will hang over it and the threat of payment of EUR 100 million or USD 100 million. [[Applause]] [[And he hasn't been hanging so far? He hasn't been hanging so far?]] So far, Mr President, he has not been very much on the line, because we have introduced these civil-law laws into this law and these laws remain there, which means we have strongly strengthened the legal status and the possibility of making our case. [[Voice from the room: Always has been.]] [[It was hanging in the system.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are not only not backing out of this, we are defending the Polish name. This slight correction or modification, which you have admitted, is something very simple, will strengthen our position, and this is because we have been able to raise the awareness of many of our partners, including Israel's partners, the Jewish partners, so far, over the past few months. [[Applause]] Our dialogue, sometimes actually very difficult, would never lead us to this point where this awareness is on a completely different level, first of all. Secondly, tonight, later this evening, I would like to make our very clear position on this matter. This will be a position in which, you will see, there is a great yield from everything that has happened today, among others. 'Cause it's going to be on the international stage loudly said, heard this truth... [[That they were right.]] ...that by defending the honor of our ancestors, defending the honor of our mothers and our fathers, not even more so, we emphasize the role of the Polish Underground State in saving our fellow citizens of Jewish origin during World War II. We also stress that for denouncing Jews and murdering Jews, the Polish Underground State issued death sentences and enforced these death sentences and that the Polish Underground State, Poland passed the exam in the most horrible... [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] ...times of World War II. At the same time, we stress, and we will also stress this in the subsequent scenes of our communication, that these times liberate in people, regardless of nationality, from the world view, from the religion that is professed, the worst feelings, because this is the nature of the cruel war that the Germans have prepared for us here. I can also stress one thing: of course, education is important - what you said, also from this side of the room - information is important, I agree with it, films are important, books are important, but international agreements are also important, and the fight for awareness that we have taken at a level that has not yet existed is important. Think for a moment, criticizing so much, whether without this law we would be here today - from a positive point of view. I don't care if it's... Of course there were some centres that spoke, which created anti-Polish films, but we stimulated something that in the long term will work very positively for Polish history and Polish good name. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Our goal is to fight for the truth, to distinguish between right and wrong, truth and lies, injustice and justice, as President Lech Kaczyński said. [[Leave Kaczynski out of this.]] We will certainly, through our educational activities and activities in the field of culture, deepen the knowledge in the world, which has been put on a completely different level today, about the real role of Poland. What Jewish environments say today about the real role of Poland, about the fact that very many Poles - very many Poles, Mr Mieszkowski - saved Jews... Of course, few Poles, some, in individual cases, have done so, in these terrible years of war they were on the wrong side of power. We have certainly led to the fact that today the Ulm family from Markowa, the Jumpedlas family or the Kowalski family from Ciepielów are known to tens of millions, or maybe hundreds of millions, of people all over the world. This is something that I would like to invite the High House - to defend our good name, the honor of Poland... It's a rare word, but it's all about our honor. After all, what happened in the times of the Third Republic, regardless of political preferences... You remember 1994, an article on the front page of one of the largest newspapers, which wrote about the fact that the National Army murdered Jews, that Jews were found and murdered in the Warsaw Uprising. 12 years later, this editor, the author of this article himself admitted that it was all a lie, but this is how a false narrative was built, a false story about the role of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, good name and truth are worth at least as much as safety. Security is built on a good name. It is strengthened, it is conditional, independence is also conditional on whether we are telling the truth, whether we are at the same time witnesses and fighting for how this truth should be presented to future generations. We introduced more history lessons, lessons about the Holocaust - as one of the few countries - which are mandatory in Poland. But this is why to emphasize that the Polish people more than passed the exam in these darkest years of World War II. We also changed the fate of the world because Hitler and I didn't go into his arrangement. We have paid a terrible price for this - communism and then also forgery, forgery of history. But for God's sake, today we're all in a moment where we all understand that we had to shake it up, and this bill paradoxically shocked the world's consciousness very much. I am often at international meetings, meetings with prime ministers and other politicians - believe me, they increasingly emphasize the role of Poland. It is precisely that there was no such thing as Polish death camps, such as Polish concentration camps or Polish collaborators - as the only nation or one of the few, we did not collaborate with Hitler. This has already been obtained, and through our statements in the near future you will see that it was a step in the right direction, that it - I would even call it - a policy that has paid very much for us. And thank you... [[Applause]] There are also moments in the legislative process that I thank those who will vote, these 460 Members, I hope, because this is how it is drawn here, in favour of change. The wisdom lies in this, the wisdom of the stage to understand international realities, and we very strongly in these international realities, acting with our American allies, are building a true Polish narrative. After all, let's pay attention to what consciousness looked like in Poland and abroad about the role of Poland during World War II, about the role of Poles, about the honor of Poles during World War II and what it looks like today. Quite differently - thanks to us and to a large extent thanks to this law. Don't criticize it. so rashly, because as we deepen our reflection on this, it will turn out that thanks to this bill we are, we could be in the place where we are today. [[Brilliant move, Prime Minister.]] That is why I thank all those who led us to this point. In fact, I have to say, it's been hard. A bunch of unpleasant fluids poured out on us, let's call it that. [[Now you admit it.]] So does that mean we were wrong? [[Voices from the hall: Yes!]] If more politicians today, more centres, cultural institutes, history, including Israel, are right... [[What are you saying?]] ...and you'll see they'll admit we're right. [[Applause]] Also the key centers, that means that thanks to our changes and because we survived this attack... And we're not under any pressure, we've just proposed some solutions that will help us fight even better at the next stage... [[Then why retreat?]] ...I hope that together, because there are actually a lot of positive voices here today, so I explain them to myself... [[Voices from the room: Aaaa...]] ...of course they were wrapped in such cotton [[Applause]] not very pleasant to us, but I understand this support of the state for this policy, for those changes that we are making. [[You don't understand.]] So, to sum up, ladies and gentlemen, it took a massive shock and for this shock, a positive shock, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with positive effects, we have. At the same time, I stress once again that our primary goal... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...was and is a struggle for truth, a fight for a good name, to present what reality was like, the reality of World War II, and this goal we are tediously achieving. After 70 years lost to a large extent for the Polish story, which was one of the most beautiful stories of honour, faith and struggle, we are restoring today a true story about Poland. This is a priceless value. On this value we want to build and on this value of truth we will build. I'm asking the High House for backup. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u61	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Objection!]] If I don't hear any objection... [[Objection!]] ...I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. Who's calling... In connection with the objection raised... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I would like to justify it.]] ...we will proceed to the vote in a moment. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I would like to justify, Mr Marshal.]] I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 36 hours 10 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda. [[It was supposed to be an hour. 10.45.]] In view of the proposal to move to a second reading of the draft law, objections were raised. I will put to the vote the proposal to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. [[It was supposed to be an hour. 10.45.]] We'll proceed to the... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Questions.]] [[Voice from the room: at 3 p.m. 10.45 was supposed to be a vote.]] [[Voices from the room: No. No.]] [[We've got an appointment for an hour. 10.45.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: The questions are.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill in print 2663, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 384 Members voted. 237 voted against - 138, 9 abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the proposal and therefore agreed to join the second reading of the bill immediately. We proceed to second reading. [[Voice from the room: Oh, caryca.]] Any of your fellow Members... [[Voice from the room: Mr Suski reporting.]] Mr Suski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u62	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u63	But Mr Suski... Mr President, in what mode are you? [[No mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u64	With a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u65	With a formal proposal from Mr Suski. [[Voices from the Chamber: In writing. In writing.]] [[Voice from the room: Very nice, it's in writing.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The formal application in writing is given to the marshal, not shown.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u66	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[The Marshal's motion.]] I'm addressing the marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 points 4 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland I submit a formal request to close the discussion... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...and immediately join the third reading. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Bravo!]] [[Objection!]] [[Voice from the room: Constructively.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[It's against the law.]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u67	Wait a minute, wait a minute. [[I'm sorry, the opposite vote.]] The vote against Mr Konwiński came first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The vote against, of course. What you have here is a mockery of democracy. First you are ruining Poland's opinion in the international arena, ruining this IPN law, now pretending to fix something and yet you do not allow the High House to debate on it. You've got most of it, and you're gonna vote your way out... [[There was a debate.]] ...ba, there is a declaration that we will support this bill at the end, so what are you afraid of? You're afraid we're gonna have to argue that we're gonna remind you of your inability, [[Applause]] We're gonna remind you of the voices that were falling when you gave us the I.P.N. Act. That's what you're afraid of. You're afraid of the truth. [[We've got adjustments.]] The fact that the Act by the Platform has been in the Seym since February... [[Corrections.]] ...we're gonna make adjustments, are you scared too? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The finale of this game is that we'll meet again in a few months, because we're gonna have to fix what you guys are screwing up again. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, of course... Formal proposal - non-associated Member Robert Winnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion... [[In writing!]] [[Voices from the Chamber: In writing, in writing!]] ...to postpone this session of the Sejm, because - I justify - what is happening here today... You want to destroy an important record of the IPN Act, although Mrs Beata Mazurek wrote a few months ago that you will not change any laws that will not accuse Poland of German crimes. That's what you said. What about today? Today the government, which was to rise from its knees, crawls before the Jewish environments, crawls from the flags, from the Jewish environments. And that's the truth. [[Mr. Marshal! Marshal! Anti-Semitism from the podium!]] [[He crawls, that guy crawls.]] That is the truth about you, which is seen more and more by the patriotic electorate. Not only have you lied about immigrants you're taking over hundreds of thousands, including tens of thousands of Muslims, but what you're doing in this room today, how you gag a public debate, how you're pulling out of an important bill, how you're treating Poles unevenly with records, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are in this IPN Act, in relation to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u71	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u72	This is a granda, this is a scandal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...this is a disgrace, I protest against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u73	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. There's a second formal conclusion. [[And the corrections when can they be?]] I understand that's the conclusion of the mouth. 3 point 7 - voting without discussion, i.e. moving to third reading. [[And the corrections?]] But I ask you: Who of you wants to make amendments? We will accept the amendments, we will accept the amendments. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's a conclusion... Of course, ladies and gentlemen, yes: we will vote on the first formal proposal, this proposal, which in turn was submitted at the end. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, formal application.]] Okay, we'll just vote on the other formal proposals first. Mr Winnicki's request for a continuance. We'll proceed with the vote. This motion shall be put to the vote. Who among you is in favour of adjourning the sitting, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. 88 voted against - 286, with 21 abstentions. The motion was rejected. And now the motion for closure, for a vote without discussion, a formal motion for a vote without discussion. [[And whose conclusion is that?]] Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 233, against 178, with two abstentions. The motion has been accepted. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: What was it?]] [[Voice from the room: How are the amendments now? There are no amendments in the third reading.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, formal application...]] We have adopted a formal motion for a vote without discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, since during the second... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I have filed a formal application.]] All other applications are no longer relevant. At the second reading, amendments were tabled to the submitted... [[There was no second reading.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun our second reading... [[When?]] ...and right now... but without discussion, because a formal motion has been made to move to the vote without discussion. [[Voice from the room: When do we have to submit amendments?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about a formal application?]] We're in the middle of a second reading, so... [[Voice from the room: When can they be folded?]] It's already been filed... [[It means there's no second reading.]] ...and all the time, ladies and gentlemen, I accept the amendments to the vote. [[But we don't know them.]] But listen to me, so there's no doubt. As a result of the second reading... [[The voice from the room: But he wasn't...]] I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. If I don't hear any objection, I'll understand that the Sejm's proposal... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Objection!]] [[What's the point? What's the point of objecting?]] Okay, there's an objection, but no corrections... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I understand that, as a consequence, no amendments, ladies and gentlemen. There's an objection. We're voting. [[Voice from the room: Over what?]] Who's in favor of... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I want to justify my objection.]] There's an objection to you being given... [[No!]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I want to justify it.]] [[What a cabaret. This cabaret is.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I want to justify him.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read it again... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The opposition is withdrawn.]] Well, that's it. I'll read it again. As amendments were tabled during the second reading... [[They didn't report it because there's no second reading.]] ...to the bill submitted, reported and can be reported further, because we are in the middle of a second reading... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I made a formal request and I would like to justify it.]] ...I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. [[You voted for the second reading.]] I accept the amendments. [[But what is the mode of these amendments?]] And there was an objection. I understand that the Member withdraws this objection. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: If...]] I'm ordering a 15-minute break. And we're in the middle of adopting amendments. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 50 hrs 11 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the urgent government draft law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. We proceed to the third reading. A summary of the amendments tabled for print No 2663 has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. Formal application, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a recess. I would like to inform the Prime Minister, call on him to set up a special government committee to assess the agricultural damage caused by drought, [[Applause]] because here Minister Ardanowski mentioned that local governments are not able to deal with the Ministry when it comes to submitting these requests. There's this dissonance. You don't really know how to do that. Farmers come to the parliamentary offices, wonder why local government officials do not accept applications.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u75	Mr President, I would like to make a formal request. [[The voice from the hall: The break was about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u76	I have a solution for that. I ask, Prime Minister, to appoint a government unit to assess the damage to agriculture. There won't be any problems here when it comes to setting up such a committee. This will actually enable us to assess the damage and help farmers in such a difficult situation. [[Conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u77	Mr President, I am so sorry, I cannot pass your vote. as a formal proposal because it does not concern matters on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u78	In a moment of harvest, and it turns out that no one will estimate this damage. Minister Ardanowski is aware of this and has appealed on this matter... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u79	Thank you very much. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Members have asked questions about this amendment. Member Robert Winnicki, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Cowardice, incompetence, false geopolitical diagnosis - all bowing down to you, your incompetent government. At the end, you serve Poles to withdraw from the most important key provisions of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. A key one, because I'll remind you that. Germany or Israel have legal instruments of punishment for lying to Auschwitz. What else is the formulation of the Polish death camps and to them similar as not a variant of the Auschwitz lie?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u81	Mr President, please refer to the first amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u82	That's what I'm saying, Mr. Marshal. It's just a granda. This is a scandal that you are organizing today in this hasty mode so that Poles do not find out...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u83	Mr President, you do not refer to the first amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u84	...your cowardice and your forgery. This can't go through like this. This is an outrage. Mr. Marshal, as a protest, I'm gonna be blocking this podium for the next hour... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Here we go. He heard from Prime Minister Morawiecki that honor must be defended, it is a weapon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u85	Thank you, sir, thank you very much. [[That's your policy, that's what you're leading up to. You give a voice to people like that.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u86	I'm gonna be occupying the platform for an hour.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u87	In that case, I must acknowledge and point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Financial punishment!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u88	Mr. Marshal, I protest. I'm protesting what you're doing in this room.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u89	Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order, it is the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, of course, and I ask you to leave the pulpit...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u90	Mr. Marshal, I'm talking about the seriousness of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u91	...because in this way I will not be able to allow other Members to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u92	Mr. Marshal, you wanted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u93	Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. [[Voice from the room: Financial penalty!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u94	Mr. Marshal, I appeal for seriousness.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u95	Mr President, I appeal to you because you continue to prevent the next Members from asking questions. [[It's a setup so he can say they're punishing theirs, too.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Winnicki prevents questions from being asked... [[Voice from the room: We're going to the column.]] ...then we proceed to the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but...]] Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 139 voted against - 272, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] [[But you didn't allow questions, Marshal.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, request for a recess.]] [[This is what you're serious about. You guys talked about defending Poland's honor...]] We proceed with the vote on the 2nd amendment by deleting the article. 2a. There are questions again, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Winnicki, I would like to address you... [[Take care of it. That's what you're a marshal for.]] ...I draw your attention to the fact that you do not allow other Members to ask questions in this way. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[This is the mode in which you restore the honor of Poland.]] Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 140 voted against - 267, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Nice setup.]] [[You guys made it up nicely with that Winnicki guy, so no questions asked.]] [[Voice from the room: What about the questions?]] We proceed with the vote on the 3rd amendment by adding an article. 53m. Mr Winnicki, I would like to ask you to leave the speaker, because you do not allow other Members to ask questions. [[The voice of the court: But he did not impose punishment upon him.]] [[Voice from the gym, rule him out.]] Mr President, you are violating the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Questions!]] Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 151 voted against - 241, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Formal application, marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Questions cannot be asked!]] [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Formal conclusion.]] I would like to inform you that the formal proposals will not be accepted, because we are now implementing the formal request at the beginning to move on to the vote. [[Voice from the room: But questions, questions!]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 4 on the new wording of the Article. 53o. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[And the questions?]] [[Voice from the hall: This is how Polish honor defends.]] Mr Winnicki, again, you are preventing other Members from asking questions. [[Voice from the room: How many times? Three times and it's over!]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 I would like to state that you are preventing Members from asking questions. [[Execute him, Marshal!]] [[What are you afraid of?]] [[Mr. Marshal, rule out!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 154 voted against - 257, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. I address Mr Winnicki again. Please leave the podium. Mr President, please leave the speaker. That's what I'm saying about the art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4. [[Voice from the hall: But how many times will you read this article?]] You are currently preventing other Members from asking questions. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 2663, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 388, against - 25, with 5 abstentions. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Setup!]] I state that the Sejm passed a law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Stay! Stay!]] [[Some Members hit the desktops and chant: Setup, setup, setup!]] I'm calling a 10-minute break and calling the Senior Convention in the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 29 hours 11 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 2 and 3 of the agenda: 2. First reading of an urgent government bill amending the Waste Act and some other laws (print No 2661). 3. First reading of an urgent government bill amending the Environmental Inspection Act and some other laws (print No 2662). I will ask the Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk to present the justification for both draft laws. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In recent years, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We have seen increased fires in landfills, waste dumps. The problem, which has been growing for many years, resulted, among others. from a highly ineffective authorisation control system, including the supervision of landfills. It was possible to notice a very reprehensible practice, when waste management companies collected waste and mostly abandoned waste, then local authorities remained with the problem, and even worse case was when these waste was sometimes lit up. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the Act so that this system, very leaky, imperfect, which allowed for a long-term collection of waste, to stop. Therefore, we propose two laws: amending the Waste Management Act and amending the Environmental Inspection Act. These changes that we are proposing will allow for a precise definition of the conditions for collecting waste, introducing rigors, increasing penalties, but also strengthening, significantly strengthening the Environmental Inspection in terms of waste control. These fires, which have occurred recently, particularly in large quantities, have actually involved landfills or waste storage sites for which either authorisations have expired, sometimes in a very easy way, or there have been no such permits at all. At a time when local authorities or environmental inspections wanted to resolve the problem, they did not have the appropriate tools, which is why in these laws we propose the following solutions: firstly, prior to the authorisation of waste collection, storage and treatment entities, we impose a guarantee deposit - its amount will depend on the amount of waste collected, so that in the event of the end of the period of validity of the permit and the waste will be abandoned, as is most often the case now, for measures secured under the guarantee deposit, the local authority can dispose of the waste. Another element is that the storage, the collection of waste takes place on land that is owned by a given company, so that there is no situation, that here is the landfill, there is a storage place, and there is no owner of the company, and the owner of the land says: it is not mine, someone brought it to me. Of course, this is about land ownership, including perpetual use. Another element is the introduction in administrative decisions of specific requirements for collected waste, in particular the maximum quantity, maximum weight, but also the maximum unit quantity of collected waste - annual and individual quantity. It is also a matter of ensuring that the waste is not only stored and collected, but that there is a continuous process of processing it. We also propose that the storage period for waste should be reduced from the previous 3 years to 1 year. We believe that a year is still a long enough period, when a waste treatment company should carry out this waste treatment, there is no reason for it to wait for this, storing this waste in storage for two years or more. It is also extremely important to increase the authority's authorisation powers, given that existing authorisations issued by the old-timers have been issued with inadequate care. This can be said, for example, on the example of Zgierz, when the governor issued the decision despite the negative opinion of the guards, even though there was already an illegal landfill of waste there... When he legalized the landfill, it turned out that it had very bad consequences, because after the permit expired, the landfill was burned down. So the seniors will only issue permits up to a level of 3,000. t collected waste per year, i.e. less than 10 t per day, while above - permits will be issued to marshals. The issue of authorisations will be conditional on obtaining a positive opinion from the State Fire Department, the Environmental Protection Inspections. This opinion must be positive. With a negative opinion, neither the governor nor the marshal will be allowed to collect or store the waste. We also propose to increase penalties for waste collection and waste management. The penalties will depend on the size of the activities carried out, i.e. they will depend directly on the volume and quantity of waste collected. So far, these are lump sums, most often applied within the lower limits. For a very large landfill, a penalty of several thousand zlotys is of course no penalty and can be calculated in the activity. We also propose that criminal penalties be increased so that it does not really pay to violate waste collection rules. We also introduce changes to the rules on cross-border shipments of waste, the ban on the import of waste for disposal, municipal waste, waste causing damage. The agreement will be possible practically only for the waste from which secondary raw materials will come, i.e. what can be used economically. On the other hand, there will be a complete ban on the treatment of municipal waste in our country. As far as additional control options are concerned, it will, of course, be possible for the control authorities to monitor the transport of waste effectively. Here to this record, that so far the Environmental Protection Inspection has had the opportunity to ask the police for support, we add this request for support not only as regards the police, but also as regards all services that have the right to stop cars, so Border Guard, National Tax Administration, Road Transport Inspection. We also include the possibility of cooperation, we describe cooperation with the State Fire Department. The Environmental Protection Inspection will also be equipped with the possibilities, with tools to control vehicles, to control the waste being imported - among other things. at the level of the initiated controls, at the level of the Chief Environmental Inspector - so that the shipment of waste between the various regional environmental funds can be controlled, i.e. that these checks can be coordinated throughout the country. An extremely important change - actually here I am going to the Environmental Inspection Act - is to rebuild and strengthen the role of the environmental inspection system. Firstly, a 24-hour working system is being introduced, so the Environmental Protection Inspection will work in a three-shift, 24-hour system. So at any given moment, anyone will notice a suspicion of environmental damage or, for example, The bringing of waste, as it has been done now, very often at night, on Christmas days, will be able to react. Then the employees of the Regional Environmental Inspectors will be available. This is, of course, linked to an increase in employment, but also to the financial strengthening of the Environmental Protection Inspection so that this tool is effective. The reinforcement of the environmental inspection staff will increase the number of inspections. Of course, it's not just the inspectors, it's also the lab staff. So the number of lab staff will also be increased. Another extremely important element in the proposed amendment is the possibility to carry out intervention checks without prejudice. So far, environmental inspectors have been able to enter the plant after a 7-day notice, so at this point - that was already - now we offer it without notice, [[Without notice, either.]] It was possible to enter without prejudice, but it had to be established that this was a particular threat to life, health or the environment. Companies generally appealed against this and it was very difficult for environmental inspectors to prove that such conditions of inspection were unannounced. Thus the courts have very often waived the possibility of such control. Therefore, it is clear that the intervention checks of the Environmental Protection Inspections can take place without prejudice. Sampling - at this point the possibility of sampling will not raise any doubts. Of course, there is a 7-day period of prejudice, but only in the case of planned inspections, when the Environmental Protection Inspection will want to check e.g. documentation carried out. This will, of course, be carried out with prejudice. Extension of the powers of the Environmental Protection Inspections, which I mentioned - including stopping cars, carrying out activities, with the possibility of interrogation, legitimacy, to identify, but also the possibility of using unmanned aircraft to possibly monitor or collect evidence in connection with this. We also propose the possibility for the Regional Environmental Inspector to issue during the review of the decision to suspend activity with immediate feasibility. Well, unfortunately, we have such examples... I will use the Warsaw example. There's a dump in the Radio for which the decision to hold is issued, but it turns out it works for the best, because there's an appeal to the administrative court. So, without the rigour of immediate feasibility, these decisions are de facto fictional. We also introduce procedures for dealing with detained vehicles that import waste, or not as declared in the documentation, or completely illegal, including the rigor of taking them to the parking lot, including a supplement for sanctions and penalties for old men for lack of parking and for marshals for lack of parking in the waste management programme. This obligation, of course, exists, only that it was not enforced in practice. There were no sanctions for his failure. We also want to ensure that voivodship environmental and other police assistance control authorities are provided in the course of their activities. Therefore, I hope that the amendments proposed in both projects will effectively eliminate the causes of pathology in waste management, which lead to excessive waste collection, not taking care of them, and at the end of their abandonment or, unfortunately, arson. This, of course, is the most urgent package of changes that we want to make by reacting to what is happening right now. Whereas the problem of waste management itself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The problem of system solutions is the problem of maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities, recycling levels, etc., we will be proposing changes here, but this is as usual in the next stages of legislative work. I hope that the High House will adopt this project in order to be able to stop illegal or semi-legal shipments of further waste as soon as possible and to sort out what has been imported at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u97	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Problems with improper waste management did not start today. Perhaps the recent fires of parts of waste storage have led to the fact that the case has become publicly known. There have already been attempts to seal this system and to ensure that companies that are legally and legally engaged in this activity are treated well by the State and at the same time to eliminate the so-called. The gray area. Not always the actions taken by state institutions, I am referring mainly to the Environmental Protection Inspection, have been effective. Some of the reasons for this were already mentioned by the Minister. Too weak the powers of this institution, restrictions on the way in which controls are carried out, have often been ineffective. Hence, this law, which increases the powers of the Environmental Protection Inspections, is very much needed here, even in order to close the 7-day deadline for carrying out inspections. Such demands have already appeared before during proceedings over several other laws. But he has always won the argument that freedom of management, freedom of the entrepreneur here is more important than the ability to effectively control the activities carried out by waste disposal companies. However, it has turned out - this has been confirmed by the events of recent weeks - that sometimes economic freedom should, unfortunately, give way to the effectiveness of the control of state institutions. Hence, we are very pleased with all those who have worked many times on waste management laws, that in the end the Environmental Protection Inspection will not only gain more powers, but also that it will be financed. We have pointed out that this inspection has received a huge number of additional tasks, and staffing has hardly changed. Unfortunately, much higher qualifications are required than for an average staff member in the administration, and a higher salary should also be required. I hope that this law will lead to not only stable but also much higher sources of funding. They are also needed to modernise the technical instruments at the disposal of the inspection and to introduce continuous monitoring of the environment. One that will work according to uniform standards. Until now, this is only in the field of air protection. This is what is most often said in this House. However, similar monitoring could be carried out, should be carried out with regard to water or sometimes also with regard to land. These additional resources should clearly be used for this. The Environmental Inspection Act also allows to increase the competence of the inspector general towards voivodship inspections and to coordinate the work of these inspectors, especially since there are often companies operating in the field of waste management, which do not operate only in one voivodship. Therefore, such coordination is necessary and control, even cross-border ones, in several voivodships will certainly increase the effectiveness of these controls at the same time. It also seems clear that these solutions proposed in the second law - the Waste Act, which will significantly reduce waste storage time, will determine in detail the amount of waste that can be stored not only in the long term but also in the short term, as well as the higher penalties for infringements will at least reduce the grey zone if not disposed of. Because so far, it has turned out that those who were engaged in illegal activities, to the detriment of the environment and often human health, very often after easy legal transformations, they created more companies and really continued this harmful activity, and nothing could be done to them. Therefore, the provisions that hinder the conduct of this type of business to those who have already been punished for environmental offences should facilitate the reduction of this type of activity. Cooperation between the Environmental Protection Inspection and other institutions and administrations will also make it more effective. So far, inspectors have often had problems entering landfills or waste storage sites, and today, after the adoption of this law, we hope that this problem will be significantly reduced. Hence, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is strongly in favour of further work on these laws and their swift adoption, because this will lead to the protection of the environment and health of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u99	Thank you, sir. Ms Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are gathered here today in extraordinary mode and supposedly only because of this, because of the burning waste. Burning Dumpster of Europe - this lately stuck to Poland unfortunately an ugly name. On 19 May, at the press conference, the Prime Minister announced the immediate elimination of this problem and called for cooperation, which would be appropriate to the diagnosis. So I would like to know, especially since we have already proposed a solution, as this diagnosis looks like, what are the basic questions of the answers that we have not received in parliamentary mode so far. Why has it been since 2016 that permits have been issued by the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor for twice as much waste imported to Poland? Why has the number of fires in storage been so avalanche since 2018, because it is not even landfilling, waste? To this day, there are over 70 of them. What are the findings on this matter? What are the reasons? After all, Minister Brudziński was at this conference. What are the proceedings initiated, what are the decisions? There's been talk of a waste mob. What are the applications addressed to the D.A.'s office? What are the arrangements? We don't have an answer. What has been the result of cross-border shipments of waste, those that can be moved without authorisation, and what is the scale of its growth? Is it monitored? Because it's not true that you can't do it so far. was to control it. You could control it. What is the fate of this waste, and what procedures have been carried out? There's no answer to these questions, no diagnosis. I think she is, but she wasn't made public. What do we have in return? In return, we have a proposal for a propaganda stop which is taking place today - drafts of laws prepared on the knee, without competence and without knowledge. I feel very sorry for you, Minister Kowalczyk, because what you said today also proves... You don't need to know everything, and you can't, but someone told you wrong. And I have this question: Who writes these laws to you? Who's letting you into this dramatic channel? This proposal will lead to the decomposition of any waste management in the country, but not only. For example, here are some records that will freeze all linear investments in the country, because making a embankment is recycling waste, because soil from excavations is also waste, outside installations, and 70% is waste. the country is not covered by spatial planning plans. We're not gonna build any highways, we're not gonna pull any railroads. This type of record They're here, not to mention the records in the draft waste bill. There are psychic solutions that are ineffective. It is clear that this process needs to be sealed, but first, Minister, we need to issue outstanding regulations, e.g. on the conditions of waste storage - Mr Mazurek responds to our interpellations that it is not urgent - not to limit storage time, because no matter how much scrap metal does not burn. Can there not be a distinction between storage time and the risks associated with technology? Where's the waste base? We recently amended the laws, in 2016, this was supposed to be because it seals the process of shipment of waste and allows it to be monitored, not drones and almost a long weapon, in which you want to equip YOU. And the inspectors are defending themselves against this solution. Control is not the same as operational activities. You can't make investigators to interrogate and close. Cars can control, and so it is to this day, the Road Transport Inspection, can control the police. No law or agreement is necessary for this. Only when I ask what you did as part of these checks do I get neither orally nor in writing. This proposal will cause total paralysis. Of course, we see the need to work on this system and seal it not only in the form of regulations and not only in the form of enforcement of the current law, because it is mostly two years and that's where these differences come from, but we want it to be dignified, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't let it be a job on your knees. We'd like to request that the project be referred to the committee... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...local government and the economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u101	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of Kukiz15 on the draft laws on amending the waste laws and on the Environmental Protection Inspections contained in prints 2661 and 2662. Crazy garbage fires, both from illegal landfills and from official storage sites, and their scale force us to ask why this is happening, and to adopt solutions to prevent them. Paradoxically, the reaction of the Ministry of Environment, undoubtedly also taken as a result of the government's reaction, proves that the authorities of the Polish State are almost certain that these fires did not occur accidentally. If this is certain, it is likely that they have adequate data relating to the causes of these fires. This is not about direct causes, it is about how these fires occurred, whether as a result of spontaneous ignition or arson, but about why they were caused by other factors at all. I believe that this legislative process the Polish state admits that there were fires and if there are still... I'm afraid there's gonna be a lot more of them as a result of this process, because this garbage needs to be burned. These fires were the result of specially constructed regulations, not just crossing those in force. In the first case, then, appropriate investigative measures should be taken to explain who and why has constructed provisions for any storage anywhere, without any supervision of waste with bioenergy potential, i.e. those that are easily self-incinerated or easily set on fire. In this case, then, we should establish the authors of such rules, those who have political responsibility for this, and how we can determine who has political responsibility here, we will also agree on a legal basis. The rubbish problem is not a matter of recent months or even years, but the result of the helplessness of the Polish state, its apparatus against organized criminal groups who do not hesitate to earn a lot of money expose the inhabitants to loss of health and even life. This powerlessness of the state apparatus is amazing. If the relevant services had responded to the previously emerging signals of garbage, this could have been seriously reduced, and so from the individual cases of large-scale garbage being brought into Poland, recorded since the 1990s, a mass influx of all waste ointments was created, which no one really controls. The problem in this case is that we really do not know what is imported to Poland, why it is so dangerous in total small, in relation to the mass of waste streams produced by Poles, the quantity of garbage from abroad. Are these trash, for example? radioactive waste, as some say, toxic chemicals, also in a solid state, which release harmful compounds in the form of gases over time, or are there even psychotropic substances there? It wasn't controlled and no one was in control. The issue of helplessness or intentional helplessness of the Polish services responsible for prosecuting crimes related to the garbage economy is also passiveness. Many times the Polish media cited examples of criminal activities of entities involved in collecting and storing various waste. One of the web portals informed about the company, which, for example, she has not submitted annual accounts, as she is obliged to do, and this is already a sign of criminal activity. Nobody reacted to this, and the company led to a serious ecological threat, among others. in Gorlice. Therefore, the solutions proposed in this project are going in the right direction. We are counting on openness in the environment committee because this should be treated pragmaticly rather than politically. There are some solutions that need to be refined, for example with regard to spatial planning plans, how bail is calculated, etc. We believe that after the introduction of statutory solutions, including those strengthening the Environmental Protection Inspection, there will be no such situation as in Poznań, where the Environmental Protection Inspection refused to carry out emission control in the local waste incineration plant because it did not have the appropriate tools. It did not have the appropriate equipment and the emission control was carried out by the issuer itself, which was of great concern to the learners. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of further proceding these laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u103	Ms Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u104	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In September 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) China has decided to ban 24 categories of waste from 2018. Since then, it has been known that the problem of waste management in Europe will accumulate and, unlike Western European countries, there are still laws allowing waste to be accepted without restrictions and no effective control. There is no doubt that all these changes in law are needed because air pollution from burning landfills poses a serious threat to human health and life. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're late. Today we are famous for being a dumpster of Europe. For six months, you had time to propose these solutions. At that time, there was a fire outside the fire, a dump behind the dumpster, and we waited. Today you're gonna rape these solutions all of a sudden. These solutions, of course, are needed. An effective system is needed to monitor the transport of waste in detail. Unfortunately, the requirement for land ownership to collect waste may prevent hazardous electro-waste from being collected by land-renters or with the right of perpetual use, e.g. large networks, RTV and household stores. The question arises as to how this will affect the implementation of EU recycling requirements and whether this will result in the disposal of the vast majority of municipal waste collection sites or the cessation of the collection of hazardous waste in them, for example. some used electronic equipment. The proposed regulations show that the designer did not answer these questions honestly when drafting these rules. Experts point out the problems that may arise from the introduction of a ban on waste treatment in areas not covered by the local development plan, as already raised by my previous speakers. Recycling facilities are mostly located in areas remote from buildings and city centres, and local land use plans are missing for such sites. The effect of the change may be to halt the implementation of construction investments, as well as to prevent the purification of contaminated land on site by the most ecological methods, with the aim of using waste as substitutes for natural raw materials. With regard to waste change in law, we need to consider measures that will help us to dispose of waste in the most ecological way, as well as remembering that the development of the recycling industry can help to address the risks posed by growing consumption in the waste economy. Therefore, it is necessary to build rules so that they do not hit honest entrepreneurs in the industry. Now for a project on Environmental Protection Inspection. It raises, above all, the opposition of the interested parties themselves. It involves reorganising institutions, strengthening inspection supervision, doubling employment, working around the clock because of unannounced inspections. It's not so bad at all, but we still don't know if there's gonna be any raises, what the raises are gonna be. We know that there are very poor wages, and a lot of staff are gone. During the consultation, the Regional Environmental Inspectorates submitted a number of comments. They point to the contradiction of certain regulations and the preparation of a project in a hurry, which is to be modelled in underdeveloped regulations. Environmental inspectors are struggling, as I said, with low wages, while the new rules require 24/7 availability and increased responsibilities. The draft law is very vague in relation to the staff of the current departments and inspection departments. It is not clear whether all department staff will have to work in a shift and how long the deployment can take as part of the control team. In addition, inspectors are to gain new competences similar to those of the police. It goes on, among other things. to stop and control vehicles carrying waste. Interested people don't want that kind of solution. This is a recipe that raises serious controversy. Some NIK comments were adopted during the consultation, e.g. concerning the temporary costs of secondment of inspectors, including the chief inspector's account in Article. Point 27 of the project in the context of the transfer of financial penalties. Of course, many of these comments have not been accepted. The government wants to prove to the public that it works dynamically, but making law at this rate, under pressure, makes mistakes. The Ministry of the Environment has not diagnosed the problem enough, and without this it is impossible to create good law. We therefore call on the Minister to take into account the voice of experts and citizens and to introduce reasonable modifications [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the proposed projects. We're in favour of further investigation of this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u106	...by projecting and handing it over to the committee of self-government and the committee of the economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u107	Ms Urszula Pasławska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For several years in Poland there has been a specific waste revolution, under which the main responsibility for municipal waste management has been imposed on local governments. Experience so far in this field shows that not all have managed to put municipal waste management in order, but thanks to the efforts of local governments and large EU funding, a network of municipal waste treatment plants has been established throughout Poland. The network of these plants was included in the voivodship waste management plans adopted by the voivodship sejmies. Growing fees for accepting waste have encouraged some operating entrepreneurs to look for so-called. better treatment of municipal waste. This is why initiatives have emerged to build innovative waste treatment facilities, very efficient and modern, for which a sufficient amount of raw material, i.e. waste, had to be collected. The existing law allows for a 3-year storage period for these waste, hence the temptation to collect waste for supply and to collect the financial resources transferred by waste owners. Only in my voivodship, Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, we have noted a few cases where collected in quantities of several thousand tons of waste mountain lost the owner - here I think of the town of Morliny near Ostróda or Prostka in Mazury - or when the owner of the collected waste turned out to be poor pensioner. Fire proved to be one of the methods of reducing the amount of waste collected. The number of fires in landfills indicates the cost-effectiveness of the operation. The initiative taken by the Ministry of Environment in the proposed Act should be well assessed. We positively assess the change in 3-year storage period for a period of 1 year. It should also be considered reasonable to involve the State Fire Department in the process of agreeing on the operation of the plant and the place of waste storage. As far as video surveillance is concerned, it should be noted that since the supervision of video surveillance material is subject to courts, the prosecution, the police, the ABW and the CBA, the Ministry of Home Affairs should be competent to issue the relevant regulation. The 9th amendment raises doubts about the refusal to authorise the collection or treatment of waste for areas not covered by the local spatial planning plan. It is also doubtful how to determine the amount of the deposit as the product of the reclamation rate and the largest amount of waste that can be accommodated in the area concerned. Shouldn't this definition be specified to the quantity declared in a given year and verified on the basis of the entry log records at the storage gate? The aim should be to reduce the import of waste, as these are most often hazardous waste, with unknown composition and difficult to dispose of. Only in the last three years by nearly 400,000. t imports of waste into Poland have increased. Strengthening and reducing control should become one of the overarching objectives of the Environmental Protection Inspection as a state service responsible for monitoring the state of the environment in all its aspects. Therefore, at this stage, we are assessing the direction of strengthening YOUTH in all its aspects, while we have doubts about some of the entries that the previous speakers have spoken about, even concerning the so-called ones. whistleblowers who will launch the control process by reporting themselves. Here we have some concerns about the risk of misuse of control powers towards entrepreneurs. At this stage, we are positively assessing the directions in which these two draft laws are going and, of course, we are in favour of directing these projects to the relevant committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u109	Thank you very much. 33 ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the question. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. I'm asking for time discipline. Please, as the first Mr Krzysztof Truskolaska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hurry, lack of dialogue and complete misunderstanding of the subject - this is how your governments can be briefly described. Besides, today you can see on the example of the law on IPN, how you respect Polish law. Instead of yelling that you're fighting the trash mob, show me what you've done in this case over the last two and a half years of government. The truth is that it is in your governments that Poland becomes a dump of Europe, that tens of permits were issued for groups that bring to our country tons of garbage that smoke so as not to bear any costs. But what can you expect from this government, which for the sake of profit gave permission to cut out national pride, or Białowieża Forest... [[What are you talking about, sir?]] Member, please don't disturb me. ...and it's symbolic... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...and it's symbolic... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[You're gonna need to limit yourself a little bit in those lies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These rules are clearly a step in the right direction, but it raises the question of why we have to clean up after our predecessors. [[Applause]] For more than a year I have been paying attention to the landfill of chemicals and waste, which is located in Namysłów at ul. Oleśnice. A permit was issued many years ago, the landlord went bankrupt, the bailiff sold it along with the chemicals to the new owner. There are no responsible people at the moment, no one knows who's supposed to clean it up. Nearby there is a grocery store that exports kosher products even to Israel, certified, the River Widawa, which has an outlet to Odra, is a brewery, there is a county hospital. And right now, there are no responsible people, no one knows who's supposed to be cleaning up this area. As far as I'm concerned, chemicals are leaking. The heat's coming, there's gonna be dangerous chemical reactions. Local governmentmen wash their hands, the D.A.'s office can't find a guilty man. We should adopt certain rules and lay down draconian penalties for those responsible for such situations. [[Applause]] [[They'll be here soon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u113	Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, 63 landfills and landfills were reported. It is hard to believe that more than twice as many fires are responsible only for accidents of chance. In the opinion of residents, it is pure business, in the opinion of owners - loss. What's it really like? What can the owners of landfills and landfills in fires gain? If they are insured, the costs of the fires will be covered by the insurer, they do not have to stand in line for the incineration plant, they no longer have to pay the Marshal's fee because the waste burned. The Marshal's fee for 1500 t of waste - blown up with smoke - is over 400 thousand. zł. It's hard to figure out what burned down. The storage sites gain space and can again accept, for an appropriate fee, further tons of waste. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it paying off? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u115	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant's representative what was the purpose of the provision that the condition for waste management is land ownership. This is so interesting that the situation at present is that waste or installations are being stored, which are not currently located on land owned, but for example. on leased land. And what happens if we introduce this bill, if the owner can't buy the land, he can't remove it, first of all, and we're gonna ask him back? Secondly, it is possible to build a huge factory today according to Polish law, and it has always been so - e.g. Heavy chemistry - significantly affecting the environment, and the building permit gets under the power of... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u117	Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir. [[Minister Rafalski, you've added a few minutes, and not a bit.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the European Parliament it is automatically excluded after a minute. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u119	We're watching the clock.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u120	Well, in this room, we're only talking about waste, but we're not talking about companies, honest companies that recycle. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to two things, i.e. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1f point 2, according to which the extension of the authorisation will be granted only to companies operating in the area for which the spatial planning plan has been adopted. I would like to point out that in Poland there are only 30% of areas that have spatial development plans, and today large companies that meet all the requirements will face a dilemma that at the end of the year they will have to fire people - in order to draw attention to it. And the other thing, because you want to fire the baby with the bath too. In Poland there is also a lack of glass waste, a type of PET, which is converted 100 percent in recycling companies. I have a request - and I will be attending this committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] environmental protection - to return... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u121	Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was a very short period of time to prepare this amendment. In this respect, I believe that in terms of fire analysis, reliable analysis, collection targets, sources of waste, etc., etc., this was not adequately analysed, and therefore all events were treated equally, thus legal establishments, and installations were brought to one level. So I have a question: Why didn't the fires of waste warehouses have been separated, e.g. From the landfill fires? And my second question. Did you, Minister, together with the Minister of Health carry out an environmental analysis of the burnt waste, in terms of health, have there been in-depth epidemiological investigations, and have the effects of the remote, in the future, on the inhabitants of this area also been taken into account? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u123	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! Minister, you would say to your club colleague that it is a scandal to blame your predecessors for the fires and the current situation. [[You guys used to issue permits a lot...]] Two and a half years, you're in charge and you haven't shown your citizens any information about burning landfills. That's one thing. This law lacks a precise definition of the costs of introducing environmental inspection solutions. There are no recycling cases. You come with checks to small entities, and unfortunately, sometimes you do not control the big ones. The problem of waste management in the absence of a spatial planning plan will be a huge problem. Thus, a poorly consulted, underdeveloped law. I hope she's gonna be corrected on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u125	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you - because there is such an urgent procedure, after all you have worked on this bill before, you are introducing two projects today - with which organizations, with which associations you have consulted this law. We also receive many questions, many protests, among others, from many backgrounds today about one law and about the other. they are sent to our Members' Offices, to our addresses, information or comments on these projects from trade union organisations at the Regional Environmental Inspectorates. This would seem the easiest, because these organizations are also centrally under the control of the state. These employees do not know exactly what rules, what with this central laboratory, whether it will be one or there will be branches, what with the equipment that they have today purchased from EU funds. Of course, you have the right to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Corrections and changes... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...but they don't know anything about it today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u128	Minister! Why did you run a public consultation into fiction? This project covers more than 14 thousand. companies that carry out waste collection and treatment activities. In the report on the consultation and opinion of the draft law, there is no detailed statement of the comments submitted and your position. And it's not available on the Internet either. It's not available. The last entry is from June 6 in this tab where it should be. Then why did it happen? Come on. There are flammable and non-combustible wastes, there are wastes that have market value and on the contrary. Why didn't you decide to vary your approach on this issue, e.g. What's the date of storage? These are those wastes that have market value, this value is subject to fluctuations in time, companies report: 1 year is too short. Why are you doing this so much that apart from burning dumps, we're gonna have bankrupt companies? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u129	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Undoubtedly, one of the main causes of fires, which have often occurred recently, is the unprecedented scale of imports of waste from different countries. I wanted to ask the Minister about these imports, these permits. First of all, how much has the Environment Minister made in the last three years regarding imports of waste from other countries? How much was that? What were the main countries of origin of this waste? Because we read in the press that they were also African countries. Is that true? The next question concerns landfills which illegally collect waste that does not have any authorisation, and the owners of these landfills do not respond to any decisions, calls to stop. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u131	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the discrepancies in your proposals for the Environmental Protection Inspections. On the one hand, you are talking about strengthening staff in order to carry out increasingly complex control or monitoring tasks under EU legislation. High-quality, specialised personnel are needed to meet these challenges. On the other hand, you eliminate the requirement to have professional experience in the case of the appointment of a Regional Environmental Inspector, you exclude the fact that he has a 5-year term of office in management positions. Please explain these completely divergent specific requirements and needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u133	Thank you. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is certainly a step in the right direction, but unfortunately late. Ladies and gentlemen! Government Information Centre reports that the Environmental Protection Inspection has identified 120 illegal landfills. Please inform whether these 120 landfills are the result of the landfills found this year, or maybe the previous year and earlier. Are you monitoring these illegal landfills? Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the amount of cross-border garbage will increase globally has already been known since 2015 as China, due to its struggle with smog, has been working hard to have as little garbage as possible. And as far as waste is concerned, they've been wiped out since January this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 24 hard... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u135	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not those legitimate entrepreneurs who set the landfills on fire, it's the people who set up the garbage companies for the people they set up. They are the ones to be hunted down, not the responsibility of honest entrepreneurs in the waste industry. With a light hand, the government gives permission to import hundreds of tons of garbage into our country. According to data, 154 thousand were imported to Poland in 2015. t waste, 2 years later it was nearly 400,000. a. I do not agree to such solutions, nor do I agree to incineration in waste incineration plants called the RDF. If it were clean technologies, innovative solutions would already be introduced in this area, including in individual households. I want to ask this question: Does the government have any idea how to reduce the inflow of garbage into Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Let's not make our country a dump. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u137	Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u138	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Environmental Inspection has increasingly complex control and monitoring tasks under EU legislation, so high-quality substantive workers are needed to be prepared to carry them out. At present, with very high staff fluctuations in the WYŚ, the biggest problems concern the acquisition of employees with experience in the field of widely understood waste management. The staffing needs for WIAŚ and GIOŚ were estimated when after Poland's accession to the European Union the number of tasks was 120, while at present there are 300 of them with a comparable level of employment. After the entry into force of this law, can employees expect an increase in salaries? Will there be funds for modern laboratories, for the operation of provincial environmental inspectors? Can all employees count on employment and this will not result in a limitation on accounting and administration departments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u139	Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Part of the recipe is: Who will remove the usable parts outside the station, is punished up to 500 thousand. zł. So if someone in a normal auto shop takes out the battery, the radio or the radiator from the crashed car, he's not gonna be able to actually install it anywhere. Punishment of 500,000. - it could happen to him. You're banning the import of processing products. So what about the lead processing plants? What about the processing of burnt oil? I can tell you when it comes to such actions that there are bets that aren't taking advantage of their potential today. If you introduce these rules, we will actually lead to very large perturbations and prevent the normal functioning of many companies, many small businesses. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u141	Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There's a problem with burning garbage. We know that this is harmful to human health. I have a question for the Minister: Do you have any knowledge about the amount of landfills in Poland, about the amount of degassed landfills and the percentage of landfills in Poland? are they gassed off? An example would be Gdansk, where the compounds that escape from this landfill are very harmful to human health and endanger safety because of the fact that gas, which is not gassed, accumulates around the landfill and also on it. It causes a threat, it could cause some kind of disaster, even a road crash, because it's near this dump that's a three-city circuit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u143	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u144	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! It makes sense to deposit a deposit that allows business activities to be carried out by collecting and storing waste, including garbage, as laid down in the Act. The problem is that the legislator has not exactly defined the method of calculation. There is a concern that such a deposit may be too low and it will be worthwhile to keep the rules in place. How will the legislator protect himself from this? And one more problem. It is about the waste management market for recycling and the financing of packaging management by the industry introducing such packaging to the market, because this problem probably exists not only in Koszalin, but also in Poland, which is reported to me by director Tomasz Uciński from PGK Koszalin. And I'd like to get a written reply here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u145	Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have questions, because this bill lacks a lot of elements, which also pointed out by colleagues earlier, also lacks other thinking about the environment, not as a certain thing to look after, as a treasure, but as an environment that needs to be thought of much, much wider. It's missing, for example. records, and why they are not here - that is the question why they are not here - concerning groundwater testing. After a fire like this, all the water that flows into the rivers, you don't know what it's with. There are no such studies, there are not even any procedures concerning the testing carried out by the relevant bodies of what is actually found in groundwater, current waters. And then it all goes to our taps and we have to drink it. So the question to the Minister is, will you ever take care of the water issue, the quality of these waters? in the context of these landfills, in the context of control or lack of control of this garbage? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u147	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rules will move forward and this is certainly good, but I wanted to make that point here. It is no surprise that some of the questions asked here by some Members suggest that, firstly, illegal landfills are burning, secondly, too much garbage has been brought to Poland recently, but the law is good. No, the law isn't good, it's holes, so it's bad. Even one member of the Civic Platform admitted that change was going in the right direction. Question: "Why didn't you do this before, and even why did you create such a law?" I have a question for the Minister whether he is aware of this and whether he will carry out a fire audit of those companies which are already operating in Poland because of the ecological risk. This is very important because many of these entities operate on this basis - they were granted permission and then passed it on to their daughters' companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u149	Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Simple question: Is it true that the Minister is issuing a permit to import garbage? If yes, please indicate which Minister, when he spent and in what amounts. And the second question is this: What is the procedure for the authorisation of garbage collection? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u151	Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of such an important law should be dealt with in a comprehensive manner. I'd like to ask you about the rehabilitation decisions. Yesterday, a very important meeting took place on my territory, and locals, and locals where the sand mine is to be. And the residents are afraid of what this excavation will really be buried in later. [[Voice from the room: Sand.]] Today they cannot know what, because there is no obligation to make such a decision. However, such decisions should be issued at the same time as the concession not only in the case of mines but also in the case of landfills or contaminated areas. So my question is this: Does the Minister provide for any work going in this direction, so that both concessions and rehabilitation decisions can be issued simultaneously in order to burden the owner of the property, the land in question in the future... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the obligation to execute this decision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u153	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I would like to thank the Minister for recalling the situation in Radio, where the maintenance of the landfill by the city authorities of Warsaw has long exceeded the allowed period. Minister, I would like to ask you about the possibility of effective control of transports crossing the borders of our country. Is it possible to open and control sealed trucks with documentation in which no waste is exchanged? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u155	Mrs Anna Paluch, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We heard a few moments ago the flames of the opposition MEPs about the burning dumpster of Europe, namely our Poland, and I have therefore a question: Hasn't the taking of waste from abroad started? How many years ago? I recall the loud issue of hazardous waste from Ecuador brought in at the beginning of 2014 and the calming statements of Minister Ostapiuk, responsible in the government of Ewa Kopacz for waste management - everything under control, everything under control. Ewa Kupac's government keyword. And then there's the second line. Who changed the Business Act and introduced the 7-day deadline to be respected, prior to the control of each entrepreneur, including the waste management entrepreneur? The NIK reports clearly state that checks under such conditions are fiction. And with this provision, our predecessors have allowed the primary rule to function in waste management: paper can withstand anything. And that's what I think it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the main problem. [[Applause]] [[You had two and a half years to do that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u157	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Does the Minister have estimates of how many such illegal landfills in Poland can function? Second question: Isn't it just that the penalties are too low and these people are paid to run such a dump even under the threat of a mandate? And the third point: I propose - especially Mrs Paluch - not to use the argument that the Platform was doing something wrong, because it could be fixed for 2.5 years, so by making such arguments, I think you are shooting yourself in the foot. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u159	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15. [[No, I've been here before.]] Excuse me. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project introduces significant changes, which will not only result in, among others, in this respect. significant increases in waste management costs for chemical companies, but also operational and organisational problems, which will ultimately have a direct impact on their competitiveness. In my view, there is no justification and it is not understandable to treat entities which are conducting the process of storing and processing only their own waste at their own landfills, with entities for which the waste collection and treatment process is a basic form of activity. Why does the government again fail to take into account the specifics of the chemical industry, which is the pillar of the Polish economy? Why does the draft law impose additional costs on entities which themselves produce, store and process waste originating from [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only from your own installations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u161	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to thank you for this bill, which will finally eliminate waste-related pathology. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a saying I'm going to quote: we can't let garbage kill our children. Minister, I bow to you that you are truly perfect... [[Boo-boo, boo-boo...]] ...he took on a challenge when there were piles of garbage burning in Poland. I want to ask you, is it true that 7 days of prejudice will be eliminated when it comes to the control of waste treatmentrs. What are the rules? Is this gonna happen? And second question. Whether there will be an increase in the number of jobs just in WFIA inspections, environmental protection, because there is a huge staff problem in the case of checks. And one more thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A very important question about... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...our local governments... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u163	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u164	Questions for the Minister. What do we really mean by importing waste? Are these only municipal waste - because so much of the Members suggest - are they also raw materials then used to produce other objects or other substances in Poland? Is import in Poland something extraordinary about other European countries? Or, for example, Germany brings similar, larger or smaller amounts of waste for its economy and its plants? Were the fires mentioned here, were the fires of waste imported to Poland, or were they related to waste that was produced and processed in our country? It's a development case. Will the provision in the Act require that there should be a clear record in the management plan indicating that there must be a waste management plant in the place concerned? And will this obligation apply to all plants processing every type of waste? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u165	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This proposal for an amendment is, of course, a reaction to the phenomenon of mass landfills. Although in a recent session, the Minister informed in the course of the current information about the causes, you did not actually say what the diagnosis of this phenomenon was. Likewise today there is not quite clear - perhaps you did not make it - diagnosis, analysis of why this is happening. If you don't present it, you don't say it, you don't realize where these problems come from, you make it seem like you're acting in a chaotic way, reacting to what's going on, on a regular basis. However, it must be made clear, and it can also be said that service within 2.5 years under the rule of law has unfortunately failed if you are trying to resolve this only through increased control. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u167	Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Trzebinia in Małopolska western for many years in the former rubber waste plant, which does not exist today, there are about 46 thousand. m3 waste in the form of tyres and plastics. The cost of disposal of this no one's landfill closes within tens of millions of zlotys. I wanted to ask the Minister what resources local authorities can use to neutralize this huge environmental bomb. I know that the question is detailed and slightly deviates from the bill under review today, which is why I allow a written reply at a later date, but not necessarily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u169	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered by Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions raised both during the club debate and later by Members will at least try to group them together and I will try to answer the most important questions. Firstly, many cases and many questions concerned the problem of land ownership as regards the possibility of collecting waste. I would like to remind you that this applies only to activities in the form of collection of hazardous waste, the filling of works, the collection and treatment of municipal waste and the collection and treatment of waste resulting from the treatment of municipal waste. So this does not apply to the ownership of the car dismantling station that everyone was worried about, and to all the other ones not listed in this catalogue in the article. 41b. What's with the land ownership? So that there is no situation that waste is abandoned, as it has been in many cases. In many questions it appeared. It is difficult for me to respond to Mrs Lieder's statement from the Modern, because it was a bunch of slanders, ordinary lies, chaos that she did not want these changes. So I don't know if Modern is behind these changes or if it's against these changes. On the other hand, on specific questions, because they also appeared at the end, I would like to say that the regional environmental inspectors want these changes. I don't know how you got that information. As far as the question of consultation is concerned, I would like to say that, of course, the consultations have been conducted with a number of stakeholders. I personally met with the employees and trade unions of the regional environmental inspectors. We spoke for a few hours, among others. Their principle of uncoupling was proposed. All doubts have been cleared up. So I don't understand why you're accusing me. About the employees of the Regional Environmental Inspectors. Of course, everyone hopes that they will have enhanced competences, which is very important, because it is also important to have a sense that their work will not be in vain, and until now it has been in vain or the efforts have been completely fruitless. Of course, they also count on salary increases, lab funding, etc. In the impact assessment of the regulation, as read, the allocated amount is PLN 113 million. As for Mrs Pasławska, I sincerely say that this is a good diagnosis, and I completely agree with that, thank you for your support. The problem of a possible calculation of the deposit as to storage capacity and possibly considering whether or not the size of the application. Because 100 t can be reported, and thousands can be imported, therefore the security against the notification would not be such as to guarantee the disposal of these waste. Hence, among others. such a proposal to convert this deposit to capacity. If we are talking about a way, of course there is a general rule enshrined in the law, while the regulation will specify the rates. The question is what waste will be covered by the safeguards and what safeguards. Of course, other safeguards must be taken from different types of waste, which is obvious. This security will be comparable to the cost of disposal of this type of waste. There were a lot of questions about imports, imports, etc. I just want to say that there has certainly not been a single permit for the last three years to import municipal waste, I mean, of course, imports from abroad, only waste permits with secondary raw materials for use have been issued. And if we were to compare it this way, there were 1,600 thousand imported in 2011. t and in 2017 - 370 000. a. It's such a scale. On the other hand, about 6 million tons of waste were imported in Germany at that time. Let us remember that these are waste that is used as secondary raw materials. There hasn't been a single permit, at least for the last three years, for municipal waste. As regards the procedures for shipments of waste, cross-border shipments of waste, they are uniform throughout the European Union, so the consent of the sending and receiving countries and of course a description of the type of waste is needed. The problem was not consent, because no landfill that had consent was burning. The problem was, in fact, that under the mantle of consent for a certain type of waste, completely different waste was imported. And that's the problem that we want to tame at this point by controlling, by controlling transport, cars, etc. If we bring back what we want and what we agree to, then there is no problem. The problem lies somewhere else. Questions about other cases. Mr Truskolaski. Actually, there were no questions here, only that Poland became a dumpster of Europe, there were some epithets, so I have no answer. Bartłomiej Stawiarski - why we have to clean up after the predecessors, let us commit the local government to this. The very right question, but I see the problem, of course, because the waste has been collected for many years. Self-governments gave permissions in no uncertain terms. Indeed, as far as possible, we will pursue waste owners with determination, but, as you know, they will not always find themselves. Therefore, in accordance with the regulations in force, which we do not change, local governments are responsible. But I also understand that local governments have to be supported sometimes. Such support, if the local authorities themselves declare a very important willingness to cooperate, such financial resources in ordering what they did not ensure in their activities, of course we do not exclude such assistance, because I realise that some local authorities have such huge amounts of waste that they will not be able to manage it themselves. This will be served by the funds of the regional environmental funds or the national fund. On the other hand, we must reach out to those on whom the obligation to dispose of these waste is imposed. As far as land ownership on these old ones is concerned, of course we respect acquired rights and this provision will only apply to new landfills, because it is difficult at the moment to force legal ownership to trade if this is a permit. As far as the repeated question on spatial planning is concerned, it would be for the best, of course, but we are aware that spatial planning plans are in few municipalities, and even as they are, in those areas where landfills or storage sites are planned, they may not be. We will therefore recommend that we also add a decision on the construction conditions, but that the municipality decide this directly so that it does not really block these investments. Here, of course, for the second time, I can repeat this and answer Mrs Zofia Czernow - an unprecedented scale of imports. I've already read when, in which years, what was the scale of imports and whether from some African countries. Yes, there was one case: imported batteries from Nigeria, lead as a very valuable secondary raw material. On the other hand, I don't want to refer to it because there have already been accusations so that we don't account for our predecessors. Then I'll keep my mouth shut. Why did we eliminate or eliminate our professional experience? No, we don't eliminate professional experience. We want environmental inspection staff to be experienced. We want to appoint managers who have a 5-year internship, a 5-year professional experience in environmental protection. On the other hand, we delete 3 years of experience in the management position. I'm sorry, what's that for? This way we will not find experienced employees of the Environmental Protection Inspections who have 3 years of managerial experience. There's usually one manager out there, so if there was another one, he'd have blocked the entrance. This recipe really blocked the entry of competent people and professionals into the Environmental Protection Inspection. As for the question of Anna Nemś, I answer that there are about 130 abandoned large, important landfills. About half of them lost their license, half of them never had a permit, so they were always illegal. In contrast, the last actions, mostly police and inspection, have identified more than 1,000, but these are, I would say, smaller waste dump sites. This is not a problem, although of course - image - this should not be done either. That's a problem we should solve, too. Małgorzata Płępek disagrees with burning, etc. Sorry, we didn't let that happen. This practice already exists. We're trying to limit him. You shouldn't have said yes, but in previous years. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec is worried about the staff of the village. Yes, of course, the increase in staff numbers and the increase in salaries is anticipated, as well as laboratory equipment, so that YOU can be an effective inspection. Mr Janusz Silchoń was worried about bans and punishments. The ban on disassembling cars outside authorised stations is. We're not touching him. We're really punishing him. So there's really nothing to talk about, because the disassembly of cars outside the authorized stations was banned, it's forbidden. We're just making the punishments real. As far as landfills are concerned, there are 417 landfills. According to the declaration, but the inspection will still check it out, they're all degassed. Although we're inspections, but we need tools to check, so please... [[That's not true.]] I said, according to the declaration, they're all gassed off. Mr Stefan Romecki asked for bail. I already told you how it's gonna be counted. Mr Piotr Appeal: there is no record of groundwater testing. Groundwater testing is in other records, so at this point, of course, it doesn't have to be written here. Yeah, you can do that and you have to do it. Will we audit companies that operate? Yes. That's what these inspections are for. This audit is already done, but it will still be done to a wider extent. I've already told you about the consent to import waste. This is also the answer to the question of Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz. An interesting question was asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. Concessions and remediation - this connection is obviously not covered by this law... [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: I know.]] ...but the problem is to consider actually linking it. Thank you for that question. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. In fact, seals can only be affected by the Customs Service at the moment. Therefore, we now give powers to all services, including YOUR people, so that these seals can break and check what they actually import. As for the illegalness of waste - the question asked for the second time - I already answered. As for the waste coming out of their own installations, these are the records of this [[♪ The bell ♪]] are not relevant. This is receiving, collecting, storing this waste. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. I already told you about the import. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u171	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u172	Mr Józef Lassota. Why is this happening? Chaos, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u173	Minister, if I may suggest...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u174	I'm almost done, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u175	If I may, I suggest that you provide the answers to the rest of the questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u176	But that's actually the last question. When it comes to measures for local governments that want to actively start the waste disposal process that they have accumulated, we will anticipate such aid from national and regional environmental funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u177	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u178	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! 1. Is it true, as the representatives of voivodship environmental inspectors from all over the country warn, that the amendment of the Environmental Inspection Act does not give any guarantee of improving the effectiveness of the inspection work? 2. Is it true that the rules governing the transition of workers to the new organisational structure will result in the mass departure of experienced workers from the Environmental Protection Inspection? 3. Will employees of the Regional Environmental Inspectorates' laboratory lose the privileges of a civil service corps worker following the changes introduced by the Act? If so, did the legislator foresee any form of compensation for these workers? 4. Is the legislator planning to increase the number of posts in the Environmental Protection Inspections in the context of the changes introduced by this Act? 5. Is it true that the establishment of a Central Research Laboratory based on WIOS laboratories without their deep reorganisation will not allow the creation of a structure that will be competitive in the services market? 6. Is it true that the availability of the laboratory services of the central laboratory for inspection purposes will be significantly reduced and, consequently, the effectiveness of the inspectors' work will be reduced, mainly during inspection checks? Will this not jeopardise the timely handling of matters under the Code of Administrative Procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u179	In the discussion, requests were made for additional referral to the committee of both draft laws. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship (print No. 2650). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Paweł Chiefnernaker to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first reading of the draft law on special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice should never have occurred. There should be no local authorities that lead the municipality to such a situation as in Ostrowice. Also, the entire apparatus of the state, public administration should not allow such pathological situations in the management of local self-government units. Unfortunately, however, this is the case and the government has decided not to turn a blind eye to this situation, but to solve the problem that has grown over the years. The draft law provides for the abolition of the municipality of Ostrowice on 1 January 2019 and the inclusion of its area in the municipality or neighbouring municipalities. Today, however, the existing legislation in this area is not sufficient. Ostrowice Municipality in Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship is one of the most indebted municipalities in Poland. At the end of 2016, Ostrowice's debt amounted to over PLN 38 million, accounting for 360% of the municipality's income, while at the end of 2017, the municipality's debt amounted to PLN 46 million, close to PLN 47 million, representing 437% the income of the municipality. This debt is due to the commitments already made and is now growing exponentially. The lack of financial capacity to repay the debt by Ostrowice results in a lack of financial perspectives and opportunities for economic and social development. This is due, among other things. the fact that Ostrowice municipality has no financial means of repaying the debt. The government has been in debt for years, among others. in parachute institutions. The District Attorney's Office in Koszalin has concluded its investigation and has sent an indictment against Mr Wacław M. and the treasurer of the municipality to the district court. In 2017, the merger between Ostrowice and the neighbouring Drawsko Pomorskie municipality was considered, which would result in the acquisition of Ostrowice's liabilities under the current rules. In principle, the existing rules do not provide any possibility for effective financial support by the budget of the municipality's state, which takes over such a huge debt of the decommissioned municipality. Available instruments, such as a loan from the state budget or so-called. The bonus for voluntary merger is insufficient and inefficient due to the disastrous budgetary situation of Ostrowice. The concerns surrounding the takeover of Ostrowice's debt by Drawsko Pomorskie resulted in a negative outcome of the public consultation. The huge amount of debt makes it impossible for municipalities that could potentially take over this debt to bear it. In such a situation, burdening other local communities with Ostrowice's obligations is socially and economically unacceptable. This would lead to the financial collapse of the municipalities taking over debts that arose without their fault. Due to the unprecedented nature of the case and the lack of appropriate legal solutions, it is necessary to regulate the liquidation process of Ostrowice. The statutory arrangements presented are intended to enable the state institutions to effectively regulate the financial situation after Ostrowice. The proposed law clearly clarifies that the municipality's obligations are not the responsibility of the municipality or municipalities which will take over the territory of Ostrowice and that the obligations of the municipality arising before its abolition will be borne by the State Treasury represented by the voivode. I would like to point out here that the Treasury does not take over the debt and takes over the liabilities. This law, the provisions of this law, indicates the specific nature of the procedure relating to the verification of commitments previously created in Ostrowice Municipality. Those creditors will have the right to demand repayment of their debts, who will make their claims within the three-month time limit laid down in the draft law. The commitments that have not been notified will expire after that date. This mechanism is necessary due to the lack of certainty about the volume of liabilities of Ostrowice Municipality. Support for the Western Pomeranian voivodeship - which is also a special provision - will be provided by the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland. In turn, the debts of Ostrowice municipality will become debts of the municipality to which the area in which the seat of the municipality office is currently located has been incorporated. Ladies and gentlemen, the state must be strong in such situations and this is the assumption of this law. Self-government today is vulnerable to these obligations, to debts. Like I said, debts grow avalanche. Therefore, there is a need for regulations that will give new tools, new competences of the voivodship and the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. The transfer of property to enlarged municipalities will take place on the basis of the provision of the Act as of 1 January 2019. The acquisition of immovable property will be decided by the Western Pomeranian Voivode through a declaratory administrative decision. The higher authority shall be the Minister responsible for public administration. The transfer of movable property will take place on the basis of transfer-receiving protocols. The draft law contains detailed transitional provisions concerning the settlement of grants, the preparation of reports, the continuation of agreements on Union projects, the way in which the individual parts of the general subsidy for 2019 are to be determined, the planned income from participation in PIT receipts for municipalities or enlarged municipalities, the transfer of time limits in budgetary procedures. Transitional provisions also regulate issues relating to the succession of rights and obligations arising from permits, concessions and other administrative acts. The draft contains provisions which, in connection with the abolition of Ostrowice, will allow for the identification of competent authorities in tax proceedings concerning local taxes and charges and enforcement procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the proposed legislation, there are arrangements on matters governed by local laws. They concern the improvement of the procedures for verification by the administrative courts of supervisory decisions concerning the establishment of a committee board and the cancellation of an executive body in a local government unit. The administrative courts of both instances will deal with the proceedings in question within 30 days. These changes will allow for faster supervisory intervention. In the current state of law, due to the multi-month judicial procedures prior to the enforcement of the act of supervision, the government commissioner can only start his activity after several months of the Prime Minister's decision. During this time he progresses, among others. This was the case in Ostrowice, the degradation of local finances. Hence our proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The proposal also provides for an amendment of the electoral regulations to be held this year. The elections in the current municipality will be held in accordance with the proposed law to new bodies which would start a new term of office on 1 January 2019. This is a special situation. The project is of an incidental nature. The government's intention is not to create precedents, but to solve the problem. We do not want to create a precedent as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration for indebted municipalities. However, the situation of recent years has certainly shown that the problem of the debt of municipalities in parabanking institutions is increasingly common. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration sees the need to prepare a proposal for system solutions for such situations in the near future, when the debt of municipalities is increasing avalanchely. I think it is also a good reason for regional clearing houses to have new tools to really influence the monitoring of self-government expenditure. I am convinced that after years of living in the indebted community without prospects, the proposed changes will bring about normality in the lives of the inhabitants of today's Ostrowice, who will enter the new situation without baggage. And the inhabitants of the municipalities, who will take over Ostrowice area, will be able to look to the future of their commune, their county. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to a group of residents of Września and the district of Wrzesiński. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club on the Act on Special Solutions for the municipality of Ostrowice, print No. 2650. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a precedent. Free Poland does not know the case, so that for some reason there will be liquidation of the municipality. Although the Local Government Act provides for some possibilities to support municipalities in the event of financial difficulties, the legislator never imagined such a thing. And that's why we need to appeal to extraordinary solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation that, as a result of pathological decisions in Ostrowice, there has been a situation that there is no other solution than the liquidation of the municipality. This case has a long history, as already in 2010. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration received information concerning this municipality, had a formal basis and full justification for the appointment of a committee board. Nothing's been done. Nothing has been done for another six years. And 2010 is quite characteristic, because if we look at the debt of Ostrowice municipality, we can see how the debt of the municipality grew for several years, but since 2010 it has taken avalanche form, as long as in 2009 the debt was at the level of over PLN 4 million, it increased to PLN 6 million, until in 2017 it reached the level of PLN 46 million. According to the Regional Audit Chamber in Szczecin, this sum exceeds the annual revenues of the municipality 4.5 times. There is no other way to help the inhabitants of the municipality. If we do not make this precedent decision, the inhabitants of this community, the inhabitants who have nothing to do with making these fatal decisions, we would condemn to long-term vegetation, if we could ever get out of this difficult situation. Mr. and Mrs. Wacław Micewski and the council of the commune, who uncritically accepted his stupidest ideas as a result of some internal connections, led to the situation that there was absolutely no money in the commune. If we left this municipality and tried to help it on the basis of the existing law on local government, for many years we would deprive not so much of this community as its inhabitants of health care, social care, the possibility of any development, the possibility of any thinking about the future. Yet the authorities of the state have the opportunity to control and somehow prevent such situations. As I said, no administrative decisions were taken, only the Government of Law and Justice 2 months after taking over power, on 20 January 2016 appointed a commission board. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice fully supports the Act on Special Solutions for the Ostrowice Municipality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Speaker! The decision to introduce the commission board was proposed on 1 July 2015 by the then voivode, Mr Marek Tałasiewicz. He proposed this and sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a proposal to suspend the connection of this municipality to two neighbouring municipalities. [[And then what, sir?]] That's what I wanted to start with. First of all, I also wanted to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform our position on the Act on Special Solutions for the Municipality of Ostrowice in Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship. As I said, on July 1, 2015, the voivode addressed a proposal to the MMSWiA to suspend the connection. Appeals, which lasted for many months, caused only the Supreme Administrative Court to dismiss the cassation complaint on 26 October 2016 and on 28 October 2016, a government commissioner was appointed, who, between us, could also act more effectively, and was amended in March 2018. I think that if these actions were more efficient, this growing debt could be limited by at least PLN 10 million. That's what the Minister said. At the end of 2016, the debt amounted to PLN 38 million, at the end of 2017 - almost PLN 47 million. Indeed, it is a small, small municipality, 2500 inhabitants, a municipality whose annual income amounted to about PLN 11 million, a municipality divided into two small administrative departments, a municipality which is mostly covered by Natura 2000 areas, which did not allow for investment, to undertake various types of activities that could develop it. However, this does not mean that we also agreed to bad management of this municipality. And this proposal, the draft of this bill, of course, is going in the right direction. We also believe that such a law should function. This municipality, which is actually wrong because of the lack of funding for any of its tasks, should be wound up, divided and attached to neighbouring municipalities. Two municipalities agreed to this: the municipality of Drawsko Pomorskie and the municipality of Złocieniec. And these municipalities will participate in the division of the abolished Ostrowice municipality. Of course, the most expected moment for local authorities was to establish and propose this law, which will give rise to legal grounds for the abolition of Ostrowice Municipality and its inclusion in neighbouring municipalities without transferring to the municipalities the burdens associated with the operation and repayment of the liabilities of Ostrowice Municipality. Of course, it is also expected to determine the volume of liabilities of Ostrowice Municipality and to establish procedures for satisfying claims. Of course, the State Treasury will be liable for the obligations of Ostrowice before it is abolished, which is the result of this law, and the debts of Ostrowice will become debts of that municipality to which the area will be included. In our opinion and in the opinion of local authorities, ensuring the normal functioning of the abolished municipality in a new reality will nevertheless generate costs which will be on the side of these municipalities. These costs relate to cases such as entries of changes of owners in perpetual books, employment of new employees and an increase in the existing tasks of employees resulting from the merger of the municipality, checks, additional annual salaries for the employees of the office taken over, maintenance of the building in which the municipal office is currently located, equipment and adaptation of office premises, specialised legal and financial services, adaptation of the information base and notification of changes in borders, new tax authorities, administrative authorities, bank accounts, changes of local law in planning documents, launching a coherent public transport connection in new municipalities. All of this will generate a cost of about PLN 1 million when connected. Of course, we as the Civic Platform are in favour, but we should look for the possibility of financing these tasks, which is why we propose that it be possible to add a provision to the law on the income of local government units, namely to the article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which says: for the municipality resulting from the merger of two or more municipalities, by means of concerted resolutions, the ratio of participation in influences [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the personal income tax for a period of 5 years from 1 January of the year following the year in which the merger decision was taken, an increase of 5 percentage points shall be made. This would give the opportunity to finance these needs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u185	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u186	The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of further proceedings over this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u187	I understand, thank you. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 52% The votes were given to the governor in the previous local elections, people supported him in the first round, decided that he was a good host because he was drawing investments because he found money for investments. Then it turned out where the money came from: from debt. This small community is an excellent example, because as in the lens you can see what can happen, like us, the state, all of you, will continue to owe the state. This is a perfect example of what happens to state institutions, municipalities, cities and the state itself, if it seems like money without reason, it does not think about future generations, about debt. This is the perfect time to say that we need to keep an eye on the budget. It is necessary to record that this budget deficit, which we have at the level of municipalities, cities, states, is definitely limited. It's a perfect time to talk about how the budget should be balanced so that we spend what we make. If the municipality gets that much money, let it spend that much. If he takes credit, it is only intentional and with clear consequences of their repayment, with a clear repayment programme. The same should apply to you. We can talk long about Ostrowice, but let's use it to talk about how month to month, year to year, previous and previous governments, and this destroys the financial stability of Polish citizens. The Marshal's freezer has a Kukiz15 project that talks about a balanced budget. It is high time to talk about sovereign debt, about life on credit, because there will be consequences, as there are consequences in the case of Ostrowice. It will end with what it ends with for Ostrowice, only that there is no one above us to pay our debts. There's no state over us that decides to pay all that money, to pay off the debts you're making right now. How does this end? Or, as in the case of the municipality, the distribution between neighbours? I hope not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The territorial government is an integral part of our life, built and nurtured over the years has become a symbol of the decentralisation of the Polish state, which is the merit of the current Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which in art. 15 points out that the fundamental territorial division of the State is to take into account social, economic or cultural ties and to ensure that local government is able to perform public tasks and that the local government is to participate in the exercise of public authority, to carry out an important part of public tasks on its own behalf and on its own account, which must be borne in mind when we undertake any interference in the local government and its essence. The catastrophic economic situation of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship justifies such far-reaching interference, which is the abolition of the municipality by means of a regulation issued by the Council of Ministers due to the lack of prospects for repayment of debts reaching almost PLN 47 million, which represents 437% its revenue in 2017. The unprecedented situation that we face requires us to take innovative measures that would enable this area to become economically and developmentally viable, therefore creating a legal basis for the abolition of the municipality, its inclusion in the territory of neighbouring municipalities without carrying the burden in the form of commitments that Ostrowice has, is such an action as to complement the procedure for meeting the recognised claims. It seems that the solution proposed is a reasonable solution, which will help us to master the economic disaster taking place in Ostrowice, without undue inconvenience for the municipalities taking over the territory. However, we cannot forget about people and their ingenuity, so I ask the Minister to take into account the proposals contained in the letter on the signature SK.030.50.2017. EK, issued by the municipalities Ostrowice, Drawsko Pomorskie and Złocieniec, in which applicants request to take into account a number of comments that may be relevant for the future of this area, including.: proposal to increase to 5% participation in PIT, increase to 25% of the Gg indicator in the calculation of the compensatory subsidy for municipalities taking over the area of Ostrowice, or preferences in the allocation of funds in competitions announced by Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship, Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship and other entities for the implementation of tasks in the areas of municipalities taking over the area of Ostrowice. Let us not forget that we, as Members of the Polish people, have a duty to listen to our voters and to benefit from their experience and extensive knowledge in order to carry out the tasks entrusted to us even better - we cannot remain indifferent to their voice. The Modern Posel Club accepts the bill submitted and requests that the comments sent by the municipalities concerned be considered in order to enable the necessary assistance, mainly in terms of improving the infrastructure situation, and to prepare this unprecedented task very carefully. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u192	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Poland is the mother of small homelands. These small homelands are communities whose inhabitants and local governments not only exercise real power but manage their property, they often multiply it and take care of the development of everything they use. Polish People's Party - The Union of European Democrats attaches particular importance to the development of self-government in our country, which we have often expressed from this stand. Hence, it is with great sadness that we acknowledge the situation in which we discussed the abolition of one of the Polish communes. Every rule knows the exceptions. It is not for us, the parliamentarians, to decide today in this Chamber about the causes or possible responsibility of anyone for the situation. That's what we leave to the authorities. Today, we need to lean on solutions that will allow for the least painful process of abolishing Ostrowice, but first of all, we need to develop such concepts so that they are least felt for citizens, the inhabitants of the existing organizational division of the state, and at the same time the least painful. Given the gravity of the situation, my club is in favour of a solution that is as simple as possible, rational, legally permissible, technically feasible, but above all respecting the will of the inhabitants of this municipality. We are therefore in favour of meeting the three criteria in total: First, the debt obligation of the Ostrowice municipality is taken over by the State Treasury in its entirety. Secondly, a public consultation will be organised so that the local population can comment on the question of belonging, including it in the area of a specific municipality, not on a mandatory basis. And thirdly, guaranteeing budget resources for equal living standards, including infrastructure solutions. Meeting these three criteria together will give the opportunity not only to quickly assimilate the population living in Ostrowice, but, most importantly, will not leave those taking over the rights and responsibilities of the future government without the necessary financial means, which would cause the acquiring government to collapse. High Izbo! In the absence of any prospects for investment, opportunities for economic and social development, this painful situation has become a reality for the local population. As it turns out, irreversible. It is rightly pointed out in the draft law that the court proceedings taking place in connection with the obligations of the municipality of Ostrowice and the enforcement proceedings addressed to the property of that municipality will be terminated by law. Nor will such new proceedings be possible. It is also prohibited to charge the components of the abolished municipality with limited rights in rem. It is rightly assumed that, due to the short period of time until the end of the term of office of the current elected authorities, there will be no movement in the abolished municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Seym was in a forced situation. In this Chamber, we can discuss the consequences and causes of the situation, but we can't undo the situation and the facts and we can't undo it. Only the three cumulative conditions indicated by my club at the outset, although time will not withdraw, will, in our opinion, contribute significantly to minimising the consequences of this unusual situation faced by the inhabitants of this region and its local authorities. The Polish People's Party Club is in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are investigating the draft law, which is the first in the history of the Third Republic to cause the liquidation of the commune, which is a unit of local government. The commune, which is also, in a sense, a cause for pride. And it's a very sad fact. On the other hand, this situation shows - as the previous speakers have already said - that this problem of debt of local government units needs to be addressed in a systematic manner in a short time. Unfortunately, the Polish state has for a long time allowed local governments to incur large debts, thanks to which we observe rapid changes in our cities, but we often forget that the investments that have been implemented will someday end, and for an exceptionally cheap loan today we can pay dearly in the future. The growing debt of local government units for years is an increasing problem, especially as part of this debt is hidden in municipal companies, in budgetary units. Before 2014, when the debt limit in local governments was still in force, the municipalities had, as a rule, ordered debt to their municipal companies. Such a debt was not included in the budget, i.e. it was not included in the level of the city's debt, and it allowed for the implementation of the investment. Another drawback was the price. The loan received by the municipal company was usually clearly more expensive than the one which the municipality itself could borrow. We agree that in the case of Ostrowice municipality, it is necessary to settle the basic issues related to the liquidation of this administrative unit, but it is sad that Polish taxpayers will have to pay almost PLN 50 million for irregularities in the operation of the local government. At the same time, action should be taken to prevent similar cases in the future, as the queue of over-indebted municipalities is increasing and the debt amounts of large cities, especially agglomerations, of large urban agglomerations, are going into billions of zlotys. There is a reflection to consider how serious the debt of local government units is and how it can be dealt with systematically. I am talking about this with growing concern, because on the list of the most indebted cities per inhabitant is my family-owned Wałbrzych, who is currently in 5th place of debt per capita, and after the liquidation of Ostrowice municipality will be on the ugly 4th place. On the other hand, in the ranking of cities on the rights of Wałbrzych district is the first place of the most indebted cities in Poland. According to forecasts this year, the debt of the city of Wałbrzych will exceed PLN 634 million, which represents more than 87% the projected total revenue of the financial year and the interest alone will amount to over PLN 23 million. I would like to point out that presented in the opinion of the Regional Audit Chamber in Wrocław of 26 January this year. on Wałbrzych's debt, the individual debt ratio of the municipality was calculated on the basis of the projected optimistic volume of income and current expenditure, while in the coming years it will be calculated on the basis of the amounts resulting from the budget reports for the last 3 years, i.e. on the basis of the actual figures carried out. This means that the actual possibilities for repayment of debt liabilities may be different and therefore also lower than projected. The municipalities should therefore take into account all possible risks associated with the implementation of the projected budget. Despite such essential reservations, the Regional Audit Chamber issued a favourable opinion with observations. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I believe that the law should be amended in this regard. The Regional Audit Chamber as an institution established to control the budgets of municipalities, the finances of local government units cannot look at this situation - and can allow it - from the point of view of the fact that the amounts in the table agree in accounting and accounting terms. I believe that the law should indicate that, when maximum debt ratios are exceeded, when the financial condition of the municipality is deteriorating year after year, the failure to give a positive opinion to the municipality and the introduction of the commission board is mandatory, and that this commission board should take corrective action aimed at [[♪ The bell ♪]] to heal the situation of the commune. To gigantomania, for the construction of monuments of glory to those who in turn administered units of local government...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u195	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u196	...will come to pay to future generations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u197	Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are requesting further investigation of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u199	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u200	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, the municipality is a territory, these are institutions, but above all these are the people for whom the municipality has been established. And I have a question for the Minister because I couldn't read it from you. Were there any consultations with residents? Did the residents even comment on the transition to one commune within this division, to the other commune? Next question. Can't the state budget take over, apart from, say, the liabilities of the municipality of those administrative costs of the municipality up to which the division will have to bear the municipality? Another question. The election calendar provides for elections to local governments during the autumn period. The commune council will be elected, the commune will be elected. If the Minister brings us closer to whether we in this community will choose the councillor and choose the councillors, because the bill comes into force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from 1 January 2019 Then what? When will these residents have the right to choose again when the authorities of this government, this administrative unit, will be elected? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the project concerns two or three municipalities. That means it's Drawsko Pomorskie, Złocieniec and Ostrowice. But is this issue closed or not? I wanted to ask you this, because from the spatial layout of Ostrowice municipality it is basically impossible to imagine its inclusion other than in Drawska Pomorskie and Złocieniec. Another question. What are the reasons why you did not decide to use this extrasolution, because this is an extra solution, but to apply this 5-percent bonus to municipalities that take over the bankruptcy mass of Ostrowice? That was my friend's question. It seems that would be very fair. In fact, these municipalities take over the country, take over the bankruptcy mass and, in my opinion, it is necessary to make such a small bonus for these municipalities, the more that Drawsko Pomorskie will have 440 km2, it will be one of the largest municipalities in Poland, managing a huge area at extremely low population density. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I also wanted to ask, based on the statements that were just now, about the position of residents of Ostrowice. We focus on finance all the time. They're very important, because it's been three times... because the indicators have been exceeded, but the commune is mostly residents. As far as this municipality is concerned, there is a large share of Natura 2000. Such municipalities need to be given more attention, not just put into tables and compare financial results. I believe that in the case of this municipality, Natura 2000 certainly had a significant contribution in terms of financial results. Second thing. I miss the reasons for that. This justification is too superficial. I think we should explore further why this has happened. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And as for Wałbrzych, Mr Potter, I do not agree with you. Don't be hasty with your grades. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u205	Thank you. Mr Artur Szałabawka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good to listen to such advice after the fact, which unfortunately occurred. I have a question for the Minister, one short question: Is it true that the governor of Ostrowice, Mr Wacław Micewski, who bankrupted this municipality because that's what it must be called, took part in the municipal elections from the election committee of the Civic Platform? Because it's important. I hear here the words of Members of all parliamentary clubs that they support this proposal, they want to help, but what then - when the voivodeship, the regional marshal, the Prime Minister was from the Civic Platform - was the obstacle to stopping, stopping this process? The commune is beautiful. Lake Sicińskie is one of the most beautiful lakes in Poland, it is a very clean lake, that is the potential that should be exploited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wasn't used either. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u207	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I think the tone of my speech is going to be a little bit in the tone that Mr Szałabawek started, because when I listened to today's speeches, especially those of the representative of the Civic Platform, I actually asked what you were doing until then. According to the Member, the first signal was in 2015, when he went to the MMA. Haven't you seen this problem before? Hasn't there been a signal from RIO before? Hasn't there been a signal from the voivodship before? Or was the signal just ignored? Minister, please answer these questions. In 2015, in July, in fact, it could be said that this was already an election campaign, was the first time that this problem was perceived, or was it earlier? The Minister also spoke about the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will prepare tools, system solutions for indebted municipalities. I would ask you to include in these arrangements the regulation of debt issues in parabanks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that's the main cause of Ostrowice's problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u209	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Marek Hok spoke about the administrative costs that will be borne by municipalities taking over both residents, the area of the municipality and its property, and estimated them at about PLN 1 million per year. I would like to ask you if you counted this country and who will bear the rest of the costs, the ones that concern the residents themselves, i.e. I'm talking about the cost of sharing IDs and other documents. Did you estimate these costs and what is the size of this? Who will cover or reimburse those expenses to the residents? That's one thing. Secondly, I would also like to get an explanation as regards the elections, as the municipality of Ostrowice will be abolished on 1 January 2019. It is written that the authorities of the commune or the communes that are connected will perform their functions and then the elections will be ordered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only that art is invoked. 271 of the electoral code, and these are the elections to the commune council. Will the residents of Ostrowice have a chance, and when, to vote in local elections? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, as you can see, this is a sad case, which is the normal price of democracy. In the future, unfortunately, as a whole society, we will pay for this unfortunate case of democracy, the case of current governments, harmful PiS governments. But I'd like to ask because the Minister was talking about the care of the people. Indeed, it is not a political decision, it is the result of the information that we have, but if that is what the Minister says about the care of the inhabitants, I would like to ask about the situation of the appointed but not ultimately established municipalities of Szczawa and Grabówka. Let me remind you that during that term of office Prime Minister Kopacz appointed these municipalities, which was to enter into force on 1 January. It's what the people wanted. And on 31 December 2015, your government abolished self-government here. So how does this apply to such a meaningful activity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u213	Thank you. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A question for the Minister. You've come to the right conclusion that this bill should never be made. And it's like this. I think we all agree on that. In fact, the municipality of Ostrowice is such a significant example. My question, however, is whether the Ministry has any knowledge of how many municipalities may be at risk and how many municipalities whose debt exceeds 100% their influence? And what are the plans of the Ministry to prevent such events as those in Ostrowice from happening? So two questions - how many municipalities are there, and what is the government going to do to make sure there are no more such situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u215	Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! There should be a question to the minister, but there will be a question to Director Dziomek, because it is a topic well known and not to the Ministry of Home Affairs that the voivode submitted the application, but to the Ministry of Administration and Digitization just in 2015. We also consulted in the middle of the year, because the administrative area is not given once and for all, it must be functional. If in this case the lake divides this community with problems in half and two communities in two different directions, then such a decision can be made, yes, but according to logic and the law. Why is budget aid not used when combining these areas with the neighbouring municipality? And this is the first step that should be made mandatory. The second - taxes and income from these two areas must go pro rata towards those municipalities which will receive them and not towards one. This is a mistake. in a project that we read. And the third thing. It can't be like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] two categories of people are created, i.e. that they will choose the uncle of the non-existent commune. Well, that's absurd. January 1st will cease to exist, and in the fall they will choose, right? [[Applause]] [[They're gonna-- I mean, they don't know exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u217	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no reason to kid ourselves that we're dealing with a pathological situation that absolutely shouldn't have happened. Of course, debt on such a scale is not possible within 1 year or even 2 years. This situation was growing. The Minister here said that it lasted six years. This took longer because since the Commissioner was introduced in January 2016, when the debt amounted to PLN 36 million, there is probably 11 million more debt today. So here you have an excellent example of how expensive time is. The failure to introduce these regulations in 2016 meant that an additional 10 million would have to be drawn from the state budget. I would also like to ask how many such situations there are, because this country is quite well worked out, the more that you wrote about it in the RIO Act, I think you described a few such cases there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And are you preparing similar solutions as in the case of this community? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u219	Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister. Did the Ministry try to estimate the costs incurred by residents due to this pathological situation that occurred in Ostrowice Municipality, which was not affected at all by the previous government? Because the next members of the Civic Platform who should not have to speak at all on this issue are concerned about the cost of this... [[When you execute the court's ruling on the case...]] ...that there will be no commune, because they will have to change some documents eventually, who will return it to them. You should have thought of that when you had power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Colonel...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u221	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u222	Thank you very much, Marshal. Again. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two words to Mr Ireneus for profit. Mr President, until recently, you stood side by side with President Wałbrzych and cut ribbons with further investments made in my hometown of Wałbrzych. You know how much effort, how much daily effort, so the president, the city council, as well as the residents cost all these investments. At this point, you submitted your candidacy for the president of the city of Wałbrzych, a city where you did not live, where you were not born, and from this place, from this platform, you are making an election campaign. I demand that you never speak ill of my city again, of Wałbrzych, of its inhabitants, and that you stop campaigning from this very place, which is unworthy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u223	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[Mr. Marshal, may I refer to you?]] No, sir. You can't go back and I'll explain why. Because we don't have an election campaign yet. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, there are several politicians in Poland from Law and Justice and from the Civic Platform who run an illegal election campaign. [[Mr. Marshal, I don't run an election campaign.]] The election campaign will begin when the term of the local elections is determined by the Prime Minister. Until then, there will be, at least when I'm running the election campaign from this speaker. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Please, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Paweł Chezernaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would say that indeed the first signal from the West Pomeranian Voivodeship regarding the situation of Ostrowice commune was noted in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in 2010. Indeed, in 2015 there was a proposal from the voivode to the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, but this was not taken by the Prime Minister and no action was taken regarding the appointment of the Commissioner's board of directors. These actions were taken in January 2016, following a change of government. That was the decision made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Later it was possible to appeal in the courts for a few months, so the Commissioner actually started office at the end of 2016, but it was the decision of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Earlier, since 2010, since the first signals appeared, no Prime Minister has taken action to appoint a Commissioner in Ostrowice. That is the answer to the question of the Commissioner of Government. To answer questions about system solutions, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that, of course, in this previous speech I have pointed out, these solutions will have to be prepared and prepared by the Ministry for the future, because the debt of municipalities is becoming more widespread. As I say, this law is of an incidental nature today, it concerns one municipality, but these solutions which will be prepared in the coming months will certainly be prepared by the Ministry of Finance, of course in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and with all interested parties, so that there is a mechanism for municipalities which, of course, over a certain amount, measured by percentage, are indebted. As far as we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, what division this will be - we do not know today. The Act states that it is the Council of Ministers, by regulation, that it will decide to divide into specific municipalities, so it is not known today whether it will be one municipality or a couple of municipalities. The regulation of the Council of Ministers will be after consultation with the municipalities concerned. Such consultation on the division will, of course, take place. We have today in the Ministry signals coming from municipalities, which can potentially accept Ostrowice, that there is a preliminary agreement of local governments on how Ostrowice could be divided, but this will all take place after a public consultation in Ostrowice, after a consultation in Drawsk Pomorskie and of course in Złocieńc, because these are the most interested municipalities today. I would like to draw attention to the fact that on 11 March this year my meeting with the Councillors of Ostrowice took place, and on 11 May an open meeting with the residents at which the proposals were presented. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning, we have ensured that cooperation with residents, with the social factor, is properly conducted and, as I said, there will still be consultations related to the division of the Ostrowice municipality. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as - because here it was often raised - by 5% participation in PIT, it is actually on normal terms, such statutory, present, within the framework of the legal regime that we could apply in such situations, those municipalities to which Ostrowice would be attached would receive 5% participation in PIT, but would also receive debts - PLN 50 million. We have a special solution that actually leads to the abolition of the municipality, within which the new municipalities receive a clean area, free of charge, plus about 11 million of the income that in today's Ostrowice municipality brings the inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extended area. In this situation we are not dealing with the merger of municipalities - because in the case of the merger of municipalities it is actually 5% participation in PIT. Here we have a special situation: it is the abolition of the municipality of Ostrowice, hence this solution is not in the proposed law. However, I would like to point out that the government is aware of the special situation in the district of Drawsko, the special situation in those municipalities which will take over Ostrowice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that at the beginning of June the competition was dissolved as part of the local road development programme and the West Pomeranian voivodeship received 28 million. 7 million PLN - because the state here spoke about 1 million PLN - from this program, the local road fund was allocated to the development of local roads in the Draw County. I pay particular attention to the fact that this programme was aimed at the most deprived municipalities, often those who could never afford to make their own contributions. It was here, on this government program, funding up to 80%. As a result, small municipalities could occur, there could also be municipalities which had not yet been able to afford their own contribution, and under this programme 28 million were directed to the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, and only in June this year 7 million PLN was directed to the Draw County, where the whole situation that we are discussing today is taking place. With regard to the elections, because this was also the subject you took, of course, the ladies and gentlemen, the elections to the municipalities or municipalities whose territory will be enlarged as a result of the abolition of the Ostrowice commune will take place together with the local elections in 2018 - as envisaged by the project - and a new board of enlarged municipalities will be elected, which will start on the day of the first session, which will be convened after the New Year, i.e. the term of the existing bodies will be extended until the end of the year, and after the New Year we will carry out these elections so that there will be no additional costs. They will already be carried out in the enlarged municipalities. The district board of Ostrowice was established for a maximum period of 2 years, which ends on 26 October. Therefore, these provisions state that on the date of the entry into force of the Act... Here one of the Members pointed out that the bill would come after the New Year. No, the bill comes in 14 days after it's passed. The effects will, of course, be on 1 January, but the bill is designed so that it will enter into force 14 days after its adoption. The Commissioner is expected to carry out his duties by 31 December 2018. Therefore, elections will no longer be held to the current Ostrowice municipality, but to these enlarged municipalities. The residents will already vote for enlarged municipalities. As regards the detailed questions concerning the state of debt of the municipalities in Poland, which Mr Lubczyk and Mr Owl have raised here, I will address these questions in detail in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer a draft law on specific arrangements for the municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, contained in print No. 2650, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for committees to submit a report on this draft by 2 July 2018. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment (print No. 2651). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Arthur Soboń to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the government presents to the High House one of the key legislative initiatives implementing the priorities of the National Housing Programme. It is a draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of the lease of the apartment introducing a rental aid scheme. The percentage of people who are having trouble getting an apartment is depending on the location 30 Poles. The lack of available apartments has a negative impact on life and individual families and the economy as a whole. I don't have to convince myself that having a roof over my head creates a sense of security, determines the quality of life and the development of everyone. When this is no longer the case, it is harder to decide whether to start a family, have children, but unfortunately it is easier to look for employment and development outside the country. In this respect, the Council of Ministers adopted the National Housing Programme, which set out the main orientations and objectives of the State's housing policy. The adoption of the document initiated the period of implementation of the "Accommodation+' programme as the main programme aimed at stimulating the availability of housing by increasing the supply of new housing investments. In addition to financial and regulatory measures, the key to improving housing needs in a group dedicated to the so-called segment is: Social housing, the government has recognised the stimulation of investment in housing for rent rather than relying solely on limited incentives and public funding measures. At the same time, budget expenditure on housing has been redirected in such a way as to help the state reach the most deprived people. This new approach is reflected in the draft law submitted. Based on the provisions of the Act, the scheme is a response to the main housing problem in Poland, which is the long-term quantitative deficits and limited possibilities for people with average income to meet housing needs, especially young people working on such terms as to prevent their credit rating. It is also an element of a comprehensive package of legal changes introducing new instruments to lead an effective housing policy by municipalities. The new start-up scheme corrects an inefficient multi-annual policy to support households in meeting housing needs, where higher housing performance did not contribute in any way to improving the availability of housing for low and medium-income earners. The new multi-family construction dominated the construction of homes for sale, which only relatively wealthy people could afford. This negative social trend has been supported by the state budget for several years by the.Accommodation programme for young people. The MdM programme was designed to address housing problems by stimulating demand for housing. In fact, it has been used to stimulate demand for mortgage loans, linking with the place and financial problem for many years. The support in the scheme for young people was mainly aimed at people with higher incomes, a significant part of whom would be able to borrow and purchase apartments without state aid. MdM has also made insufficient, far insufficient contribution to improving the housing situation of families with children. 70% beneficiaries of this scheme are childless persons. Despite the expiry of the MdM programme from January to May this year. About 70,000 were put into service. housing, which is the highest result in relation to the comparable period after 1990. The huge demand for housing, even higher than during the implementation period of the MdM programme, indicates that there is no correlation between support from the state budget and the increase in the number of premises. You can even say that this money has been wasted to a large extent. As far as the new instrument of the scheme is concerned, we aim at people with moderate and lower incomes. It will be implemented in two ways: firstly, as non-refundable financial assistance dedicated to people and not to investors, physically felt in citizens' wallets, and secondly, by addressing payments to tenants of new apartments, as an incentive for investors to increase the number of apartments on the market, which in the long term will contribute to improving their availability also as a result of lower rents, the decrease in rents in general. The aid will be granted to the first tenants of apartments - built or revitalized - who are faced with transitional problems with self-sustaining housing. They will allow the rent paid directly by the tenant to be reduced, as part of the rent determined by the tenant will cover non-refundable support from the State budget. Transitional state aid, which is particularly important at the beginning of the career and life path, will enable tenants to stabilise the family's situation. At the same time, it may motivate action to improve the income situation of the holding. On the other hand, the pro-investment objective of the scheme entails the possibility of providing financial assistance to tenants for the implementation of housing investments. Accommodation on start-up, complementing other package instruments, housing+ and strict initiatives In this respect, it proposes a comprehensive and model approach to measures to support housing needs. An investor under the scheme may be any entity that has the assets necessary for the implementation of the housing investment. The first step is to conclude an agreement with the municipality by the investor. In the next step, the municipality applies to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the conclusion of a contract securing the funds for future rental payments for apartments covered by the investment carried out by the partner. In addition, the municipality will carry out initial recruitment of tenants using priority criteria for this purpose based on the challenges of local housing policy. However, the final decision to conclude lease agreements will depend on the investor. It is he who will assess the rental capacity. In order to receive subsidies, the tenant and other household members will have to comply with several statutory conditions. These are conditions of different nature: the use of the apartment, the property and income conditions. The tenant will submit an application for aid to the municipal authority responsible for the location of the apartment. The aid will be granted by means of an administrative decision for a period of 9 years. Every year this will be subject to verification of compliance with the income condition. The monthly amount of the aid will depend on the cost of building an apartment in a given municipality and so-called. Normative surface, which makes e.g. The four-person family in Warsaw can count on a monthly surcharge of PLN 561. The design of the programme is a more appropriate approach to the variable market situation to the implementation of housing policy. The proposed solutions support the supply of apartments for rent. In contrast to the MdM programme, there will be a direct link between support from the state budget and the increase in the number of apartments. Apartments eligible for aid would not be created as a market offer without this scheme. It is also another proposal from the government, which is part of a package of housing solutions dedicated to municipalities, which increases the range of possible instruments for local governments. The package of new solutions is wide and rent subsidies are only part of this wide package. We have here actions to improve the functioning of the grant scheme for the costs implemented by municipal authorities of construction, preferential loans granted by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, changes in programmes adopted in the Sejm in March 2018, where the municipalities have also obtained opportunities to support housing projects in cooperation with private partners, participation of up to 20% of investment costs, as well as the possibility to support municipalities in the field of social rent and municipal construction at a record level - for the next 8 years we have 6 billion PLN for this. The broad involvement of local authorities with the best knowledge of local housing challenges will contribute to the development of an effective model of cooperation between public and private actors in the housing field. Based on voluntary and inspiring sharing of potential and experience, the activities undertaken jointly by investors and municipalities will allow for flexible and fast guidance to those segments of the housing market which at the time require special attention from the authorities. Self-governments will gain a new instrument for implementing local housing policy, which significantly relieves the municipal resource without the need to involve the financial resources of the municipality. They will also have a leading role in making key decisions for the implementation of the programme in the municipality, including among others. voluntary entry into the scheme, choice of the investor or impact on the conditions of the investment and recruitment of tenants. As a result of the increase in housing stock and the offer of support, the programme will also be able to become part of a policy encouraging investment in other sectors of the market relevant for the development of the region and settlement in the municipality. For investors, this is an advantage in terms of the possibility of expanding existing business into a new market, with great potential for stable and long-term rental revenue, less risk of lack of demand for housing for rent and the insolvency of tenants, but also the impact on the implementation of local housing policy. According to the assumptions made for this programme, the scheme of living at start-up, in the first year of its operation up to PLN 200 million will be allocated, this is the limit up to the end of PLN 1200 million per year. Finally, I would like to stress that the project is the result of work initiated by the Housing Council, headed by the Prime Minister, President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. It consists of the heads of departments responsible for the elements which form part of the entire housing policy of the State. The project was subject to public consultation. It was positively assessed by the joint committee of government and local government. At each stage it is carefully analyzed. There's a lot of interest. It is the result, one can say, of a compromise between expectations and possibilities of the state budget. The demand programmes have been completed. Today is the time for the supply programme, because we have the following situation on the market. We have a huge demand for apartments. This demand really does not need to be stimulated. The offer needs to be extended to include affordable rentals, which should contribute to better labour market mobility, greater flexibility, and direct this offer of assistance to those whom no one has helped so far. For there were those who could afford their own apartment or had the opportunity to make a mortgage, and there were those to whom social assistance was directed. 40% Poles who were between social aid and the market have not received any offer so far. It's a big challenge. We're counting on about 30,000 joining the program. families every year. We are prepared to implement this programme both - again I will repeat it - for social reasons, they are absolutely the most important, as well as for pro-investment, economic reasons, because construction - I hope - over 200 thousand. apartments per year, of which an important part will be housing with state support, will allow us to reduce the housing deficit, which reaches 2,3 million apartments, over the next decade. This is how we plan this programme, other legislative initiatives that are about to go to Parliament, so that Poland's 100th anniversary of regaining independence will solve the Polish housing problem unsolved over 100 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u227	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I give my firm support to print project 2651 for State aid for housing expenses in the first years of renting a flat. Since 27 September 2016, there has been a National Housing Programme which sets out the objectives of housing policy until 2030. But on 29 January this year, the Prime Minister appointed the Housing Council, which recommended a change. Today is the change we're talking about. Instead of supporting housing savings, it simply proposed a payment scheme for rent. There is therefore a need to ensure the availability of housing for those who have too high income to apply for housing aid from the municipality, and too low to receive a loan for construction, to buy their own housing. As the Minister mentioned, these estimates are about 40% persons. Older people are also waiting for apartments for rent. They're looking forward to helping, too. In order to provide apartments for rent, of course, you need to support the entities that build the apartments. In this case, we are talking about housing cooperatives, social housing associations and developers who are likely to be involved in this process. The law recommended by Law and Justice pursues two main objectives: social objective, i.e. funding aimed at people who cannot buy housing, and investment purpose, i.e. to pay to people who settle buildings built by various entities. The project also assumes that local government units will select an investor and qualify persons for the aid. So the role of local government units here is very leading and very important, because there will be pressure, you could say, from this side to making such decisions. There will also be subsidies for apartments that are revitalized in revitalization zones. The provisions of the bill include: rent subsidies under the income criteria, aid for new apartments, the granting of the aid is granted for 9 years, the dependence of the amount of the aid on the local cost of building the apartment, the area of the apartment and the number of family members, the verification of the annual amount of the aid and the recruitment of tenants by the municipalities. The programme will be financed by the subsidy fund under the expenditure set out in the National Housing Programme. The proposed solutions are therefore addressed to tenants, municipalities and investors. The bill or draft of this law, I hope, will find a listen and recognition in the Sejm. In a moment, after the discussion, I will invite you from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government to debate this project. We would like to carry out this project quickly enough, because the problem is really important for residents who want to have their own apartment. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support the Marshal's staff... [[Under the cane... ha, ha!]] ...or a Marshal's draft bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u229	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill submitted is a good pretext to sum up almost three years of action by the Law and Justice Government in the area of housing policy. This is a good opportunity to also summarize how the 2016 National Housing Programme works. And you have to say, you're propaganda champions. The government announced gigantic housing programs, the housing+ program, you created the National Property Resources, and it must be said that we have a huge disaster. There are no assumptions of these programs, and the criticism of the National Property Resources comes from your benches, from your ranks. Among the strongest critics are Cezary Mech, a well-known financial expert of Law and Justice, and President of BGKN Mirosław Barszcz. They are the ones who point out that this instrument, which has just been used to implement the national real estate program, does not work that the money has been spent for those who have been appointed as a body of the National Property Resources, as well as for monitors and two coffee machines, but the real effects that citizens are waiting for are not. As far as living+ is concerned, you announced that 6,000 would be raised by the end of this year. apartments. 6,000. Apartments! We already know today that this is out of date. 6,000. apartments will not be available by the end of 2018. Why? Because we have, as Zorba would say, a great, great disaster. And it is worth recalling on this occasion that this programme, which the Minister had just criticized, the program of living for young people, but also previously implemented by the government of the Civic Platform, the programme of family on their own has produced real results within 8 years - 250,000. agreements. [[Applause]] $250,000. households received support from the state budget, thanks to good housing projects. And you of the MdM programme have been so carefreely extinguished, even though it was very successful, despite the fact that it was already 3 January that there was no money available from the 2018 envelope. The Civic Platform appealed: Let's keep this program going, let's look for other solutions, but let's not put out what works well. And we know because yesterday there was an interview with Minister Kwiecinski that you are again announcing that this time not 6,000. apartments, and much more - 100,000. The apartments, you'll begin to realize by the end of next year. You know this isn't real. You know, it's propaganda again, like living+. [[For a century.]] We don't say "no." We say we want to work on this project because we need to look for other instruments. But the only real way to stimulate the housing market is to restore a great tax credit. They're taxpayers, citizens who have money can make this dream come true. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we're going to increase the housing pool that those who can't afford their own apartment will be able to rent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is a good opportunity to debate, to discuss the housing programme of our government. Undoubtedly, housing policy under the PiS has been neglected and is not really there. The only thing that saves you is the MdM program that was introduced by the previous government, because yes, it would be a disaster. But as we hear from the Minister, this program is already out. The government, which promised to start building hundreds of thousands of apartments for Poles in 2015, stopped at the stage of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! From this point I would like to know what you have built over the three years of your government, for which the head of the infrastructure and construction department at that time received awards, since he could not initiate a comprehensive building program, which you promised Poles. Well, of course, you've got the apartment+ program, and you've actually recently given up the block in Biała Podlaski. And how proudly the Prime Minister gave these keys, how proudly he showed this apartment. It only turned out that the family that got this apartment wouldn't live in this apartment because they would live in another apartment, but unfortunately the Prime Minister didn't go to the other one. This scene reminds me a little bit of a scene from the show "Alternative." [[4.]] Well, frankly, I'm not surprised because history shows that construction isn't the strong side of the PiS. President Jarosław Kaczyński promised 3 million apartments in 2015. He was supposed to build 3 million apartments for Poles. How much did he build? Zero. The lack of its own M is now one of the most important problems affecting our country, because it is complex and creates other difficulties. Detachment of this solution therefore turns on a spiral of adverse factors that hinder the development of our country. This law will not solve the problems of Polish housing, and indeed many Poles cannot afford to buy or rent apartments and many young people do not qualify - or the waiting time is too long - for social housing. Here we need a comprehensive housing policy of the government. She doesn't have to be called, Minister, national, as everything in your country is national, but it really has to be projects that are concrete and are being implemented. It is also surprising that there is a period of procedure over this law. Why was the date of first reading postponed? Unfortunately, I'm afraid that you're using these terms. only to give hope to thousands of Poles and to be able to show in the upcoming municipal elections that regulations are already in place and housing will be built, and now the Poles will actually have these apartments. So, unfortunately, we all see for what purpose this law is being processed. Unfortunately, you are guided by a cynical desire to use all possible means in the fight against the upcoming elections. Local governments are better off building housing at local level than government. It was thanks to the efforts of hundreds of self-governments, often unrelated to the PiS, that thousands of Poles managed to help realize their dream of their own place. Today's law, which concerns aid for rent subsidies, does not contain many provisions relevant to thousands of young Poles. The State provides for a period of 9 years of aid for rent payments. And what's gonna happen, for example? in the event that some families lose their ability to pay their rent? Will these families be thrown out on the street? Is there any way to really help those families who lose their income? Why have you not been able to deliver on your promises over the last two and a half years and force yourselves to work hard, which would result in the country's comprehensive housing policy now possible? I know why. That's because your actions are just temporary. Your party can only destroy, not build. Modern is in favour of further work on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u233	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are analysing the government's draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment, according to print No. 2651. The Minister broadly justified and discussed the assumptions of this project, referring to... starting with Resolution 115 of 2016 on the National Housing Programme. This government project, as I understand it, is presented by the Minister as another revised, revised, improved, tailor-made project designed to stimulate housing on the one hand and, on the other hand, help parts of society, especially young or less wealthy families, to get a self-contained apartment. The project, if we analyze it, we read, is fairly coherent. It sets objectives - the Minister indicates two objectives, social and investment - the way in which the main objective, i.e. the payment of rent, is achieved, it discusses the rules for granting them and the rules for paying them, it sets out the duration of the possibility of supporting this project, as well as the amounts that the government secures for the implementation of this project. Minister, the question is why we should change the project after 2 years of implementation of these original assumptions. I think it would be more elegant and apt, as if there was not finally one opinion that these previous projects, from previous years, were almost wasted money. And if we were to analyze these effects, these actions, reliable, showing the magnitude of the results achieved, discussing those moments that led the government and you to change the 2016 resolution, and to submit new rules and solutions that are intended to lead to new housing, it would be very elegant and would not raise any objections raised by my previous speakers - and I will say that they have in part, or in a large part, certainly a lot of reasons in these doubts. Nevertheless, I think that whenever we talk about people, a group of people who need help, where the possibilities of new solutions are under consideration, our club will support these projects. We are in favour of continuing to work on this project, but with an attitude towards constructive and factual problem solving and writing without referring to previous years and censoring them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment, print No. 2651. One of the most important problems of housing policy in Poland is the lack of access to housing for people whose income on the one hand is too high for them to apply for housing from a municipal resource, and on the other hand they are too low to borrow to buy their own apartment. The analyses carried out indicate that this situation is close to 40% societies, especially young people, starting families, starting a career, achieving income lower than in other age groups and working on less stable forms of employment, e.g. fixed-term employment contracts or contract-orders. From the diagnosis presented, it is important to consider whether it is possible to resolve this problem systematically by creating appropriate regulation by the State. In answer to this question in the affirmative, the government proposed a solution in the procedated bill consisting in introducing a payment scheme for rent in the first years of renting the apartment, for a maximum period of 9 years. The aid scheme will apply to newly built apartments and apartments in revitalized areas, and the beneficiaries will be the persons indicated in this diagnosis, i.e. without other housing and with a certain level of income. According to the project, the limit will be 60%. the average salary in the national economy and the limit will be increased by 30 percentage points per person in the household. It should be noted that this is also a tool for demographic growth. It is worth noting that the bill is consistent with the pro-family policy of the government. The stable housing situation is one of the main drivers for starting a family, so the implementation of a programme increasing the availability of housing for a wider group of Poles can undoubtedly contribute to further improvement of the demographic situation, which despite noticeable growth is still far from ideal. It is also worth listening to the voice of local government officials, from whom involvement in the duties entrusted, e.g. the verification of the right to aid or the recruitment of tenants depends on the proper functioning of the scheme. Opinions on the draft law were presented by the Polish Towns Association, in which it points out its doubts in several areas of the project. In our view, it is appropriate to lean on issues related to potential divergences between the law and other legal acts, especially as fundamental acts as the Civil Code. I'm talking here, for example. on page 2 of the opinion on the question why the surcharge for one person relates to an area of up to 20 m2 since in the Housing Supplements Act the supplement for one person is entitled to an area of up to 35 m2 and in addition the minimum statutory area specified by law is 25 m2. It is therefore necessary to adapt these subsidies to the minimum area of the apartment which will be built under such a project or will participate in this project as a rental apartment, which has a surface area of 25 m2. It is also worth noting the issue of the introduction in the draft of the definition of legal rental, which is, after all, the legal definition of rental in the Civil Code, or the introduction of a direct reference to another law in this respect, as was done with the definition of the tenant. I would have a request to the Minister to clarify these discrepancies, correct them, and if this is possible, it will allow for smoother, more lifelike implementation, implementation of this programme and will also avoid the difficulties of local authorities at working level, who will have to implement this programme. I think this will be extremely important, so that I hope that these discrepancies will be eliminated during the work in committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be submitted for further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u237	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, you have to start this way: Socialism heroically overcomes the problems unknown in any other system. [[Applause]] I'm a relatively young person, but I still remember the Polish People's Republic, I remember cards for things, I remember all this absurdity. Now we're working on a bill, we're talking about a bill that's gonna put the cards on the apartments, exactly the rent cards, because the only way the government can see is this. Ladies and gentlemen! I will tell you what the long-term effect of this law will be. It's going to be the opposite of what you're going to do, because it's really going to increase the rent. The rent can be raised for this simple reason that there will be subsidies for the second large group of people. So even more people, especially young people, will not be able to afford to rent an apartment. Bravo, congratulations, Mr. and Mrs. Socialists. [[Applause]] But if we're talking about the so-called. housing policy, this bill says there's a problem with people who can't afford rent, and at the same time they're too rich to get an apartment from the commune. You want young people to be able to afford rent? See how taxes are paid by young people on their salaries, see what part of their salary is taken in the form of parataxes and taxes for everyone, especially for young people. You want them to be able to afford rent? Lower your taxes, especially for the least earners, and then you can not only rent, without problems rent, but also buy an apartment, i.e. To pay the loan payments, because if a young man earns $2.5,000, he actually earns almost $4.5,000, but the rest is eaten by a socialist country. The best housing policy is the lack of any policy. Delete all those idiotic subsidy schemes, all those housing concepts, all those programs. Lower your taxes for that, and people will be able to rent apartments or buy them. This is the most sensible policy that can be. Besides, it's the same scam as a scam apartment+'s program, called a apartment+'cause it already turns out, [[Applause]] that under this scheme the rent will be so high that it will actually be almost the same as the rent on the market. And that's probably why you come up with laws like this. Getting into socialism isn't gonna help. If socialism were working, we wouldn't be leaving the Polish People's Republic, ladies and gentlemen. You're gonna have to realize that. You're turning back to the PRL. The Polish People's Republic broke up, collapsed, remember that. I remember that, all the more reason you should remember, so no such idiotic laws. I'll be against it, of course. Besides, I think the U.S.S.S. should be destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u239	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a few questions. I'll be waiting for an answer in writing. First of all, how many apartments from the apartments + and apartments were put into service and how much was assumed to be put into service in 2015? How many families have you helped with these apartments? Of course, this plan, which you planned to implement in 2015, was not implemented. How many apartments have been transferred to the Podlasie Voivodeship, how many apartments are planned in the Podlaskie Voivodship and where will these apartments be built? Minister, isn't it better for these government programs to start working with local government officials, e.g. The construction of the communal apartments? Local governments are doing very well with this, and we need to follow the example of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u241	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u242	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Your PiS-pronounced noisyly, the M+s turned out to be a complete failure. Like my friend said before, it's a bust. Now you're trying to get it done with rent payments, calling it "M+" too. I wanted to ask, what about the tenants when the nine-year payout period you're proposing in this project is over? Are you going to throw them out on the street in accordance with the institutional lease rules introduced by the KZN Act? They could get in trouble. Then on the pavement, because at that time they can't apply for communal apartments. It's homelessness + and it's not living +. I also wanted to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that this project was consulted, but the consultation, for example. The Polish Towns Association was negative. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u243	Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that the Council of Ministers adopted the National Housing Programme in 2016 and further: after about 1.5 years of operation of the programme, some of the planned instruments are reoriented. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what the PiS won't promise, they can really promise anything, but if they promise, they'll reorganize the whole thing soon before it works. A really bigger lie than the whole living+ program, the national program, the National Property Resources I have not seen, because the program is supposed to work, and it needs to be changed, and whether it will work, it is a big question mark. But I have a question for the Minister about the rent, because the rent will be $1,600 in this average apartment. The Lord said that there will be an additional payment of about PLN 500 for 9 years, which will be reduced, and that after all, the parents [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll get 500 plus for the baby, so they'll pay for it. And what happens when the payment is over, the child will grow up and there will be older people, including a woman who doesn't work, with a rent of 1,600 zlotys. How will you help this family then? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said that the Civic Platform government was wasting money in implementing the program, living for the young. No, it's not. Over the last eight years, Poles and Poles have gained almost 1,200 thousand. new apartments [[Applause]] - for the last 8 years - including 0.25 million with government aid from the budget. But I have questions. Is it true that, during the implementation of the scheme, there have been bankruptcies of companies that have been involved in the construction of these apartments? How many apartments have been really transferred to the apartments under the housing+ programme so far? How much cash [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has he absorbed this program so far? What's the cost of one apartment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u247	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u248	Two quick questions. First of all, Minister, please tell me kindly whether this idiotic idea with the rent cards results from the fact that it turns out that under the scheme, the rent will ultimately be almost equal to what is now on the market. That's the first question. Second question: Why don't you go towards a radical simplification of building law, construction process and everything that goes with it, so that you can just build much faster. And a lot more? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u249	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, congratulations are here because you're breaking the world record: you're speeding up the housing program by slowing it down. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the forecast of budget expenditure for the period 2017 to 2028 assumes that expenditure on housing will decrease by around 500 million in 2019 and 2020. That's great. How do you get it to accelerate at this point? Why are you doing this? And if you have already decided to cut your spending by 500 million PLN, why not transfer these 500 million PLN to the housing subsidies so that by 2019 more people can benefit from it? Second question, detailed. Tell me what happened to the residents of the municipalities who live in one municipality and work in the other municipality where the apartment is built. Will the resident in this bedroom be able to go to the commune where he works? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u251	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! We're running a little late, but I think the vote will start at about an hour. 16. This is information for those Members who have gone astray here and are not interested in this point. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Why such a lack of faith in Members?]] [[They're not interested in this national program, so important.]] Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By the way, I wanted to ask you about the housing+ program, which turned out to be a disaster. In many cases, the government simply deceived local governments by media propaganda. In the area of Żywiecczyzna there is a municipality which joined the program of "Study+" after the Ministry accepted the concept of building development owned by the municipality. It envisaged the location of 10 residential and 2 service premises in the municipality building. In November 2017, the municipality signed a letter of intent with the National Property Resource and the Ministry of Infrastructure. In March 2018, the municipality sent an appropriate questionnaire at the request of the Ministry. All in order to receive in May [[♪ The bell ♪]] written information from the National Property Office that the minimum limit is 30 apartments or 5 million PLN for financial expenditure. Why did this happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u254	Self-governments demand an explanation. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u255	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The introduction of an additional task into municipalities will complicate the existing housing aid scheme. For today in the municipalities there are housing allowances for tenants, but also for owners, tenants of cooperative housing, for people who have low income. Even if the rent payments referred to in this Act are introduced, both the rent and the allowances will continue to be high and, in principle, it is not known who these apartments will be for. But for the commune, it's gonna be extra responsibilities. Because the municipality will have to submit a demand to the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego Fund each month so that it can implement these payments. Why make it so complicated? Can't an existing system be used? It's just some kind of unnecessary chaos. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u257	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Soboń seems to be following this interpretation of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who today, during the process of the first point, tried to hypocritically explain his defeat to us here. You did the same thing to Minister Soboń when you said that the previous program of living for young people was wasted money. Minister, do you even know what you're talking about? And my specific question is about the payments that will be given to the tenants. I don't really understand the provisions of the article. 4. Will all these citizens, foreigners who have the right of permanent residence in Poland, be able to benefit from this? Of course, citizens of the European Union do, but I am referring specifically to Ukrainian citizens who have the right of permanent residence in Poland. There are a lot of them, and these are really people who need support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u259	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about writing an article. 6 talking about the conditions for granting aid when the premises are used by the tenant on the basis of the first settlement. And I have a question about this situation: What happens when, for random reasons, the lease agreement will be terminated with the tenant from the first settlement in a short time after settlement, e.g. Because of going to another city? And is it true that another tenant from these provisions of the State Aid Act will unfortunately not be able to benefit from housing expenses? Please inform me about this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u261	Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government of the United Right is giving priority to family policy. One of the main factors influencing the decision to start a family and have children is having or at least a close prospect of having adequate housing conditions. The problem is to increase the availability of housing for people whose income is too low to be able to borrow for the purchase of housing. It's about 30%. It's not society, including mainly young people, starting a career, for which an additional problem hindering the taking of a possible loan is the form of employment which undermines credit. The commercial housing market has not yet generated apartments for rentals available to this group. The government proposes in this law the introduction of the National Housing Scheme (National Housing Scheme) for the payment of rent payments in order to put out existing schemes (Family) on its own and residence for young people. The proposed solutions are addressed to tenants, municipal authorities, investors. And questions: Are there estimates of the number of people, in particular families, who will benefit from this programme [[♪ The bell ♪]] at a certain time, e.g. Ten years? How will this programme affect housing investments in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u263	Thank you. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister said that the programme would stimulate construction activity, that the number of jobs in construction and mobility in the labour market would increase. Minister, you are not going to do this program - after this statement I am convinced - because you started from behind. You're talking about the consequences, but you're not talking about the tools that will make it happen. Do you know that today there is a collapse in the labour market, that there are no working hands in the construction area today? [[Applause]] And you think if he calls something a national program, people will come and do it immediately. Sir, today we need to increase the professional activity of Poles, we need to increase their willingness to work and their willingness to stay longer at work. Otherwise, who's gonna build all these apartments for you? Minister, verify this strategy. Because this is a strategy - another one of your kind - mission, vision and hallucination. [[Applause]] Those apartments you're promising, that's one big hallucination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many criticisms are directed at this project, but I would like to see whether, indeed, gentlemen, you will be courageous to vote against this project. We want to help those residents who can't afford to rent an apartment. Indeed, in the market for various reasons: and inflation, and lack of hands to work, prices and construction costs are rising, so the government has decided to pay extra. Here's the question. or was there a reflection on one of the questions that Mr Civic Platform asked: 1,200 thousand were built. apartments. For 2 years we have built - following this trail - more than 340 thousand. apartments. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] If this rate is maintained, it will be 1.5 million in eight years. So it's no wonder it's 1,200 grand. built. I have a question for the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In other countries, are housing expenditure higher or lower than in Poland as regards the scale of the state budget? And the second question is, after the MdM program ran out, was there any collapse in the construction of the apartments? Because it's so stated here that if the program for the young people is completed, the developers will stop building. Is this really the case? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Then, when there is no senior policy, there is no support addressed to the elderly in our country, the state writes to the justification of the State aid law in paying housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment just seniors. You wrote in the statement that this program is addressed to seniors, but you do not provide any concrete proposals, solutions, potential demand for this kind of housing for this group of tenants. I would like to inform the High House that more than 60% of senior citizens in our country own apartments, and the legal title to residential property does not entitle you to apply for a rent payment if you move to a newly built apartment. So we are dealing, Minister, with the complete fiction of this programme, he is not addressed to a group of seniors and does not meet the needs of this age group. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u269	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since 1 January, PiS has raised flat-rate rental taxation rates. Where were you then? Of 8,5% To 12.5%. [[Scandal.]] That's close to 50 percent increase. What were the consequences? The owners of the premises translated this into rental prices and - it can be seen clearly - rental prices have increased significantly. And the question is, is it an expression of your policy to improve the availability of apartments for young people, or is it as usual that you say otherwise, and what else do you do? Fear to be afraid In fact, which will result from your plans today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u271	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u272	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister, this project is nothing more than an unsuccessful attempt to maintain on the electoral poster to the self-government of the program, a program that has de facto gone bankrupt. They were supposed to be: cheap rent, low rent and an attractive buyout. What do we got? In the city where Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki personally handed the keys in a block built as part of the apartment+ programme, the rent amounts to PLN 13.75 for 1 m2. In the neighborhood in an identical block, ba, with a higher standard, because after finishing robots, the municipal rent is PLN 7,30. Minister, if you'd like to verify my words, it's in White Podlaskie. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at taxi stop just say: Alternatives 4 and taxi driver knows where to go. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u273	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This meeting of the Sejm is extremely specific, I must say. There's a drop coming in all the time. Since your pros have turned out to be great downsides, or actually major disasters, and here the local elections are coming up, the ratings are coming up, social dissatisfaction is starting to grow, and the state is starting to be settled in the field, since it turns out that living+ is scandalous. + and a big minus plus, especially for young people who have high hopes for it, you're bringing in a new case, calling it a national program, and you think that if something is national, it's gonna work and it's gonna be fantastic. Minister! I have a question, but please answer in writing, because you're probably not prepared today. How many apartments from your fabulous apartment program have been put into service, settled and functioning? They were raining here just now so fantastic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] numbers: 300,000, 500,000, I don't even know how much, so please answer in writing exactly what your defeat looks like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u275	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe in order to calm these emotions a little bit, you have to say that... This is the first time I have listened to the debate in this role and indeed the repetition of some phrases raises my doubts as to whether the authors of these questions really want to hear the answers, but I will try really seriously to answer these questions to each of you. What Mr Grabarczyk said in his speech is something that... [[Voice from the room: Louder a little, Minister.]] Of course, I can use the same methodology and say that since I am a minister, more than 15 thousand have been built every month. Apartments in Poland and, believe me, no minister in Poland has ever built as many apartments as I have. This is the propaganda I don't want to talk about. I don't think this conversation makes any sense. We will propose various solutions, including fiscal ones, which will save Poles when it comes to housing. Soon a draft law building funds will be sent to the High House, i.e. the so-called. REITs, housing. In both pillars of the scheme, we now have 1 000 people living in the social pillar and in the commercial pillar. apartments built and 7 thousand. apartments under construction. In a moment we will announce competitions for another dozen or several tens of thousands of apartments in the area of PKP. Next year we will achieve this number of started housing investments, which was mentioned by the Prime Minister and quoted Minister Kwieciński. The mockery of the show "Alternatiwa" is very satisfying because I am a great fan of the show, but he about today's reality. She doesn't tell us anything. If someone says that construction is our weak side, then I inform you that it is worth looking at statistics: no sector in the economy in the first quarter of this year has grown as much as construction. So the country in Poland... [[Speech outside the microphone]] They are private entrepreneurs, yes, because I would like to say, perhaps someone does not know that the state in Poland did not build apartments - it was building in the right past era - and certainly will not build. This is not what you are and no one has ever said that you will build. The state will support housing and this is our goal: to build more in Poland. What about those who won't pay the rent? - fell in the speech. Well, the rent has to be paid. I understand we agree on that. To give the less wealthy a chance, we're giving this bill. The Polish Towns Association. We will, of course, take these comments - I am talking to Mr Profit - absolutely seriously in the legislative work. To answer: Madam President, it is precisely the case that we have a project which we are going to process, I hope, at the next meeting of the Sejm, which is a law that facilitates the implementation of housing investments, while this project that we are talking about is agreed with the local government. By calming Mr Wolf, who is not, I want to say two things. First of all, the amount of the payment has nothing to do with the amount of the rent, so the threat he was talking about is fictional. If he had read the bill, he would have known what the mechanism for determining the amount of subsidies was like. He's got nothing to do with the rent. And if we are talking about the liberal or social model of housing policy of the state, then I must say with full responsibility that Poland really is a country that is very liberal in this area, because we spend very little on housing policy. I have such statistics on GDP per capita in all European Union countries - only Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania and Serbia spend less than we do. They are very liberal countries, such as the UK, which spend several times less than GDP per capita. Even the most liberal economists like Hayek or Friedman have always said that the state cannot withdraw from housing policy for a simple reason: because in winter in this part Europe is cold and it is the duty of the state to also ensure that this basic need of every inhabitant is met. It was bad after 1989 that we turned away from the long-term, solid housing policy of the state. To answer the Members' questions... I don't know if I have it in the right order, but I think this is the right order. As for the question of Mr Truskolas - of course, if necessary, I will answer in writing - these cities are among others. Białystok, Suwałki and Lomża. Should we work with local governments? I can't imagine it any other way. This law is, you can say, the development of the constitution of this cooperation within the framework of the programme with the local government. We share roles and tell them who has responsibilities. We respect the competences of the local government in this area. [[And how many were built?]] And I would like to say that state support in the form of subsidies, e.g. aid for municipal construction under the BGK Payment Fund, is part of the housing+ programme. After nine years? We have this regulated in a precise way in our contracts. Let us not mistake in any way what Mr Żmijan said, i.e. municipal solutions for the least affluent with investment in housing. We don't build these apartments from the state budget. We build them with investment money. Therefore, there is an example of White Podlaskie, where we built, we showed that it is possible to build cheaper than on the market. 1 m2 for PLN 1860 and the rent is actually over 13 PLN for 1 m2. Because we built it for the amount I'm talking about, it's an attractive proposal. In less than 200 apartments were offered in this White Podlaskie willing to receive about 1400. And that, I think, is the ultimate proof that there's a demand for these apartments. Is it worth taking a look at the apartment additions? Absolutely so, surely such a system reform is needed. Mr Wilk asked if we wanted to radically simplify the building law. Yes, we would like in December - after the local elections, not to introduce this topic before the local elections - to develop solutions for building law, spatial planning and to show the High House systemic solutions. Right now, we're going to show you the so-called project. specialization of housing, i.e. the law, which will give the possibility to quickly implement housing investments in railway, rural, agricultural, post-industrial and post-post-office areas. As far as letters of intent with the National Property Resource are concerned, I would like to say that none of the municipalities that signed such a letter of intent will remain without an offer from the State. Such a comprehensive, system offer we prepare. Agree that, as part of the BGKN offer, which must be economically calculated, smaller towns - probably such as those mentioned by the Member - may not have met these criteria. But we're gonna have another offer for them. I repeat: we will have an offer for all local governments. Of course, it will not be the same offer, because somewhere the local government will be ready to borrow cheaper money from us, somewhere it will be ready to use the social rent building. In another place the local government is waiting for the finished product, e.g. the special purpose company together with BGKN, elsewhere is ready to carry out the project with a private investor, because we have such examples too. Those solutions we're going to propose are going to be a lot. They will be based on the market, because there is also the essence of this project, that in no way it restricts the market. As far as questions concerning foreigners are concerned, we have European regulations here. We have migration, free movement of persons and all rights preserved in Poland, which are related to being a member of the European Union, while the law specifically regulates issues concerning third countries and how citizens of these countries could apply for housing if the priority criteria we have proposed were adopted by the municipality. Let me emphasize that, because this is the role of the commune. As regards criteria, e.g. concerning repatriates or Poles from the East, the municipalities will decide whether they will be ready to conduct a housing policy, which will be, for example, encourage you to return to Poland. Ms Kołacz-Leszczyńska's question. Agreed, we have a system in which we assume that subsidies will be directed towards new housing investments, which will be powered for the first time. In short, this tenant who moved out in your history has a chance somewhere else to pay, but the one who moves in doesn't have that option based on this bill. To answer Mr Duda's question, I would like to say that this assumption that we have adopted is 30,000. families who will enter this program every year. Mrs Janyska is concerned about Poles' willingness to work. I understand that Poles have a desire to work, which is why we really have lower unemployment, while the needs of the market for such a growing construction are of course gigantic today. They absorb the labour supply that is available on the market. In this respect, we will also present a package of ideas, because I am aware that we will not solve anything with these hallucinations spells. We must have a smart policy here, and certainly a smart policy was not to eliminate vocational education and discourage young people from working in construction for years. Mr Smolinski asked whether housing policy is being pursued in other countries. Yes, it is conducted on a much larger scale than in Poland. Why? Because housing policy isn't a thing that's, like, good for the economy alone. She is excellent for the economy, i.e. We have the situation that growing construction means a growing economy. Where construction grows, the economy grows. That's the best probie. This is the industry, this area of economic life, which also has a positive impact on other areas of economic life. It is extremely important in assessing the economic situation of the State. We have a situation where this market is an absolutely growing market. This package of measures already taken makes it necessary to look for solutions that will have a positive impact on the whole market. Today I really have no other idea of having a positive impact on the market than through this market. I mean, if you add your offer to the supply of housing, first, it will fill social expectations, which is to give the chance to those who are not in this market, secondly, by using less labour-intensive technologies, we will create economies of scale, we can build cheaper and we have shown it, we will have a positive impact on the entire market, putting pressure on this market. As for Mr Szczerba's question of priority criteria for seniors, it was not a coincidence that we put this as a priority criterion. I mean, if you're going to say by saying that not all seniors are going to benefit from the grant scheme, then I'm confirming it. But can they? They can. Moreover, I will strongly encourage municipalities to create a social structure that will safeguard the needs of different people, including older people or disabled people, as regards these criteria locally chosen as part of the role that local authorities have in this programme. Mr Żmijan says that the housing+ programme is a program: cheap rent, low rent and the possibility of redemption. That's right. I mean, that's exactly what happened in White Podlaskie. If this compares to municipal housing, it means that it limits its horizon only to this group of people. And we do not limit our aid horizon solely to social aid, because we believe that smart state policy is also helping those who do not fall within the social criterion. The last statement, Mrs Gądek, was purely... [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] ...words that... They go for the snout, the defeat, what's national is wrong. I really encourage us not to talk in committee at least in this way, to work together on this project. Thank you so much for this discussion. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u277	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of the lease of the flat, contained in print No. 2651, to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws (Print No. 2626). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws. Change the setup... [[I can't hear you.]] The amendment concerns three areas - it concerns the prevention of the use of the financial sector for tax fraud, the split payment mechanism and the list of entities not registered, deleted from the register or returned to the VAT register, changes in the scope of so-called. STIR. I remind you that STIR is one of the elements necessary to seal the VAT system. The STIR builds a channel for the distribution of information on the behaviour of account holders as regards their transactions as regards the establishment of these bank accounts. The banking sector analyses behaviour towards the identification of symptoms that may indicate the use of the banking system for the purposes of VAT fraud and other fiscal offences. We are in the process of implementing this system. The successive components of this system are gradually implemented. We are on the eve of the transfer of financial transaction data by the clearing house to the tax administration, which is scheduled for mid-July. The system is starting to work and after the first period of operation of the system it seems necessary to make some changes and corrections to improve this originally designed system. The first amendment envisaged by the bill is to abolish the appeal of the blockades for a period of 72 hours. These locks are provided in this system and are modelled on so-called solutions. AMLs, i.e. anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist financing. There are also such locks for several dozen hours, even more than 72 hours provided for in the STIR, and there these locks are not subject to action due to their short-term nature and inability to deal with such complaints during these blockades. We, following the AML solutions, the Anti-Money Laundering Act, use the same model, i.e. we retain the challenge of the decision to extend the blockade, while the shortest blockades, calculated in several dozen hours, will not be subject to the challenge. Why? Therefore, the justification for the provisions on these shortest blockades would result in the disclosure of algorithms which generated information about the symptoms of the irregularity. Revealing such algorithms would be counterproductive in the sense that it would allow such a transaction to be constructed, such as to construct financial turnover, which would avoid these algorithms. Like I said, these blockades will turn into a longer 3-month target lock. Of course, these 3-month blockades are already subject to normal complaint mode. The next change we propose concerns the revision of the range of data transmitted daily by banks and SKOKs in the STIR mechanism, we extend the definition of the eligible entity's account to the VAT account and the fixed-term deposit account. Some fixed-term deposits give the possibility to transfer funds from it not only through an account that originally was in the power and was originally covered by the mechanism, but also by itself and directly. It seems reasonable to extend the definition of accounts subject to the entire STIR also to those fixed-term deposits accounts. We also extend the range of data sent daily to IP addresses, information about other locks and occupations of claims and information about agents submitting the transaction. These are the things that you originally could download and power the KAS into this knowledge in a different mode than the everyday, automatic one. It seems reasonable to extend the automatic mode to these data, and we are, of course, equipped at this point in time with the social site's comments on IP addresses. This case is still under review, but we note that the IP address is an important information that can allow faster identification of those entities that are part of fictional carousel, fraud and can also constitute a significant evidence in the case of proceedings, and therefore this was originally the decision to collect these IP address data. The law also contains a solution proposed by the banking sector concerning the rules for informing the customer about this blockade. We envisage here an unambiguous way of communicating this type of information about the demand for blockade. The project also allows the use of the STIR system for other statutory purposes, in particular this once built system of automatic connection of the financial sector via KIR with our tax administration we want to use for a cheaper, faster, better way of releasing funds from the VAT account for the trader. In other words, something that would be done in paper circulation, thanks to this system STIR, which is a two-way channel, will be done at less cost, less administrative cost and faster. We also propose changes to the split payment mechanism. We provide a clarification on the impossibility of debiting an account in the case of a foreign bank. We also have the facilitation for factoring companies, which will also make it easier to benefit from the benefits of the split payment mechanism in debt trading. We propose minor changes to the information disclosed in the register of taxable persons deleted. We have been guided by the need for a more comprehensive presentation of these data, and wider data is intended to contribute to improving the safety of economic turnover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u279	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u280	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the 2626 government draft law amending the electoral order and certain other laws. [[Voice from the Chamber: Wyborcza?]] [[Voice from the room: Not election, not election.]] In this law, the government proposes amendments which include rules on the blocking of the eligible entity's account. In order to improve the efficiency of the split payment system, it was possible to use the STIR channel, i.e. the Information System of the Settlement Chamber. The Goods and Services Tax Act proposes amendments aimed at ensuring greater completeness and legibility of the so-called. Black letter. Changes in this area will support entrepreneurs in the proper performance of their tax obligations, among others. through the right to verify the reliability of the activities of its counterparties. The existing possibility to challenge the blocking of the eligible entity's account for a period of up to 72 hours and to challenge the limitation of the scope of that blockade shall be abolished. The blockage shall be lodged in the public interest in order to prevent the transfer of non-taxed funds, since there is no doubt that a banking system is being used in fraud to create appearances of economic activity. Experience so far, particularly in anti-money laundering, indicates that the time of a short blockade is necessary to carry out a detailed analysis of the activities observed with the signs of fiscal fraud. At that time, the tax authorities will have the right to coordinate with other services, including in particular the prosecutor. The qualified entity shall retain the right to challenge the decision to extend the blockade for a time-marked period which, however, should not last more than 3 months. The inclusion of the definition of the eligible entity's account also of the VAT account and the fixed-term deposit account of the eligible entity is intended to increase the effectiveness of the risk analysis. The transfer of the funds held from the billing account to the overnight spot results in a zero balance on the settlement account at the end of the day. Daily renewal of such investments suggests that there are no funds on this account, and the truth is different. The draft law rightly strengthens, among others. Article 2 119zv § 4d Tax Order for information that significantly facilitates the identification and location of persons using a blocked account. This information is necessary to establish networks of mutual relations between persons using accounts that are usually organisers or participants in tax fraud. The transmission of information on IP addresses will allow precise identification of the risk indicator and a more comprehensive risk analysis by the Head of National Tax Administration. In the case of fiscal offences, such fake business activities are registered with other persons - pillars - who do not have assets and often do not have knowledge of the real purpose of the undertaking in which they participate. The actual organisers of fraud do not always register with financial institutions as plenipotentiaries for the account. In such a situation, additional data must be collected to identify the actual managers and members of the criminal group in order to establish the links between the actors involved in the crime. The proposed changes are a further sealing of the tax system. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support the draft law on amendment of the electoral order contained in print No. 2626. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and some other laws. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Tax Order, Mr!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u281	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The government bill amends the provisions of the STIR Act, in short, the Act, by the way, which is mainly in force since 30 April 2018, as well as the amendment of the Act on Tax on Goods and Services introducing a split payment mechanism, split payment, which has not yet entered into force and will apply since 1 July. Revision of the amendment to the amendment. And it's not the first time. The proposed proposal confirms what has been said several times from this tribune that, as far as the tax system is concerned, we have a huge legislative mess. I have the impression that the Ministry of Finance somehow wants to celebrate the century of independence. I don't know if this is the right way. This is certainly not the kind of mess we've had in our history. The amendment results to some extent, in part, from the fact that the Minister of Finance, conducting the VAT legislative process at the end of 2017, split payment, forgot that they are being carried out in parallel and, in principle, carrying out work in the field of Tax Ordination, and could not deal with themselves. He didn't see that these laws were linked. This is a disgrace, Minister. To this end, the tax legislation you introduce is one of the most complicated and costly in Europe and is actually burdening businesses. And when I listen to you and I hear that you're gonna simplify the tax system more, it gives me the creeps because I'd rather you just simplify, and they're finally gonna start doing it. Turning to the proposal, first of all, what once again happens is the lack of inter-ministerial arrangements and, above all, the public consultation. Incidentally, the necessity of this legislation is to some extent due to the fact that these consultations were also not at the earlier stages. But today we are in a new situation, we have a spokesperson for the rights of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I'm reminding you of what you said and what you promised to do when you summoned him. You said that without his opinion, you would not make any changes to the conditions of management. It's a shell institution, it looks like. In terms of substance, the greatest resistance is the resignation of the right to challenge the blocking of the bill for a period - a short period - 72 hours. In business this is often not a short period. This depends on the specifics and the size of the business. Today these blockades are issued in the form of a resolution and we have the opportunity to challenge them. The lack of this possibility is a violation of fundamental constitutional principles. This is, first of all, the right to sue, Art. 78, that is the state's trust in the citizen, that is also the principle of proportionality. These actions are simply disproportionate. What's he gonna say, a taxpayer who checked his account today, and the next day he's gonna want to settle his obligations and he can't do it? He's gonna go, he's gonna call the bank, but he's not gonna know anything, because he can only find out when the bank gets confirmation from the KAS that all the blockades have been made. You can guess things. A heart attack in the background is also possible. Ladies and gentlemen! This lack of information about the blockade seems absolutely outrageous. This cannot be explained by the need to preserve the confidentiality of the system, operational activities, because if we are talking about the complaint, we could still accept this derogation, but with the lack of information absolutely not. In addition, there is additional information in split payment, which is also to some extent intended to block transactions. Here you are making, in my opinion, a cardinal error because you assume that IP, its lack or volatility will suggest a crime, while you ignore the fact that in today's large companies, modernly managed companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u283	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u284	...is operated through VPN, virtual networks. So those who use these new technologies may feel... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u285	Your time is ticking, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u286	Your marshal, conclusion. The Civic Platform Club requests that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u287	Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski from the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u288	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to print no. 2626, i.e. the Act amending the Tax Order Act and some other laws. That has already been said, ladies and gentlemen. Let me be clear: we are at war and war is the law of war, not the law of peace. This is how I understand the intentions and motives of restrictive solutions, in peace, certainly too restrictive solutions that ministers are proposing here. However, I am able to understand this because the fact is that over the past years - whether these are the last years of the rule of law and justice, or earlier governments of the PO, or earlier, when PiS also ruled, and before the SLD - always somewhere billions of zlotys of honestly paid tax by citizens, resulting from the hard work of citizens, have flowed out somewhere. That's why we're at war with all criminals, especially VAT criminals. I'll talk about VAT in a minute. Here, methods should be used that will actually increase the efficiency of obtaining or, above all, increase the density of this sieve so that less money escapes from the state budget. However, I have this impression - referring to the idée fix of Prime Minister Morawiecki, i.e. drones, electric cars - that in the era, when we are already conceptually in the stage of drones and electric cars, you are proposing an innovative solution for the old good diesel. 'Cause when it comes to the roadblocks, it's okay. It is reasonable to block such accounts that there is doubt that the flows on them are precisely aimed at extortion of taxes. But, uh, ladies and gentlemen, if you're going to eliminate the arbitrage of the lockdown decision, what do you think the entrepreneur won't know within 72 hours that he can't make the transfer? Yes, the bank won't tell him, it won't say: you or Mr. entrepreneur, you can't make a transfer because you have a blocked account, and we won't tell you why. But if the entrepreneur knows that the account isn't blocked by the bailiff, what other options does he have, the reasons for the blockade? So this solution is quite weak. But okay, that's all you could offer. It's okay. Another question, you're proposing... That's where we're gonna get to that unfortunate VAT. This will be a very important question, Minister. You are now adapting, actually a few days before the split payment mechanism comes into force, you are proposing solutions, and you knew that split payment would come in and it was possible before that, when introducing split payment, you could also amend the Tax Order in this respect. Here I will make it clear: unfortunately, I have the impression that not only we as Poland, as Poles, are in the tax war with economic criminals, but also the state ministers, not only from the Ministry of Finance, from all other ministries, are in the war, whose purpose is to justify that you are needed to do something. For God's sake, it would really be better if you did your job once and for all. I think that many Poles, especially entrepreneurs, would not mind if they found out that one day the Minister or Vice Ministers came to work and did nothing because they had done everything right before. And continuous gmeraning, continuous tightening, screwing, clamping a collar is not a method, it is not a way to justify your presence. Nobody denies the need for ministers and ministries. Another point, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of all these adjustments. For example, tightening up the rules on STIR, increasing the range of information that is available. That's what you're trying to do when you're in the era, so to speak, virtual networks, you're trying to rely on mechanisms that use an IP number or these kinds of old archaic solutions. I suggest that you sit down again, quietly on this. I understand that these rules need to be implemented, so we will, of course, ask for this to be done so that this project goes to the committee and that the committee will deal with it in detail. But a great encouragement to you to work conceptually, not to be afraid to work conceptually, to run far and bravely into the future, but to generate [[♪ The bell ♪]] less projects for us here, for Parliament, and hence for citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u289	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the whole discussion, I was most amused by the article that I read, preparing for today's debate, in which it was stated that both tax experts and representatives of the Ministry of Finance admit that because of split payment some companies may have problems with their ability to repay their liabilities, but as noted - note - the Ministry of Finance, only some. And this is supposed to be a comforting element for the Polish economy. Of course they may have problems, because split payment is introduced voluntary and large companies, by introducing this split payment at their own place, will pay less to their smaller business partners and if they are to pay liabilities in full to their suppliers, without split payment, they will have significant problems. So once again, we have come to the situation that we were talking about when we introduced these rules, that the big ones will direct the market, that the big ones will dictate the rules of the small game. And this is what the government did, which went to elections with slogans about taking care of small and medium-sized enterprises: about small and medium-sized Polish businesses, about small and medium-sized Polish family companies. All these laws are against them. Now you've prepared a law amending, another novelty to the laws quite recently processed, for laws, one of which has not yet entered into force. What do you suggest? You also want to take away those small and medium-sized Polish companies, which by large corporations will have imposed e.g. introducing split payment, the possibility to decide to block your bank account for a period of 72 hours. As we have heard from the Minister, this cannot be challenged because the algorithms used by the government will be revealed. But in the case of a longer block, it will already be possible to sue and, as you can see, it will no longer be a problem that the algorithms in the trial, the evidence will be revealed. It is necessary to prepare the process so that algorithms do not come out, and at the same time so that Polish taxpayers can live, ladies and gentlemen. Second thing. You want to reveal it, you want to be able to provide you with another set of information about Polish taxpayers, among others. Phone numbers, IP addresses. And what did we hear from the Minister today? The IP address may be needed in cases already under investigation and then it is good to have it, because it can help us find ultimately the one that VAT has extorted. But, ladies and gentlemen, today's IP addresses are variable. Finding the owner of the IP address is doing a series of activities, a series of police investigative activities, which in order to capture one taxpayer who used a given IP address at a given time... It's really not obvious. Again, a law could be drawn up so that these IP addresses would of course be available for inspection by the Ministry of Finance in proceedings against a person already suspected of committing tax offences, not from a vending machine passed to the tax administration, because there is no justification for this. It's not that much, this little piece of data flying around every day isn't gonna be completely used for anything, it's useful, it's just for, I don't know, some random leaks and interference in our personal lives. This is another, as I say, legal bullshit you're preparing to improve the previous one. Like I said, you do not think of Polish taxpayers at all. But I want you to do it with full conviction that it's working. I see this conviction in the eyes of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance getting smaller, and the VAT receipts for the first four months of this year confirm it, because the ladies and gentlemen of the state, the VAT receipts for the first four months of this year are 57.5 billion, last year it was 56.8 billion. What does that mean? This means that VAT affects our budget, and VAT revenues are growing much slower than consumption is increasing. Minister, why don't you tell your colleagues what this means. If this trend continues, it will mean that the VAT gap has increased again this year. This is the one-year success of the government in sealing VAT. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u291	I now ask that Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft law amending the Tax Order Act and some other laws, print No. 2626. The project includes rules on the blocking of the eligible entity's account and changes not only in the Tax Order, but in nine other laws, so it has a very broad spectrum of impacts. According to the applicants, the project, i.e. The aim of the government is to ensure systemic consistency in short-term blockades and to organise and introduce provisions resulting from other solutions already adopted. In fact, however, as we consider, the proposed project introduces far-reaching constraints primarily for entrepreneurs, while at the same time imposing new extensive obligations for financial institutions, banks, cooperative savings and credit banks. New definitions have been introduced into the tax administration, among others. the definition of the eligible entity's account has been extended, including the fixed-term deposit account and the VAT account resulting from the Act introducing the split payment mechanism. An important element of the project is the abolition of the possibility to challenge the blocking of the account for up to 72 hours and the restriction of the scope of the blockade. Only a provision to extend the period of blockade for a period of up to 3 months may be challenged. We find these restrictions unacceptable. We must bear in mind that decisions to block measures will not only apply to tax offenders. For example, as a result of mistakes, simple mistakes, they can also affect any potential entrepreneur or, of course, a citizen. The blockage of resources without information about the blockade, the reasons for this blockage in view of the impossibility of its appeal, is too far-reaching interference with the functioning of economic operators. Such interference, perhaps not justified at all, will cause enormous difficulties, especially for these small entrepreneurs, for those in poor financial condition. Only at the request of a qualified entity will banks or SKOKs be able to provide information on the request for blockade by the head of the KAS, but at the same time the obligation to provide additional detailed information to the head of the KAS. And here we list what this information relates to, i.e. available IP addresses, from which log-in to e-banking services, allowing access to the account of the eligible entity, also information about other locks, occupations of claims, information about proxy identification data to the account of the qualified entity, so it is a wide, wide range of data, including phone number. The project generally extends the scope of information and compilations sent daily by banks and SKOKs and the clearing house. We have serious doubts as to the principle of providing such detailed information. Is this information really necessary? Will they serve exclusively to prevent tax crime? Or is it, you can guess, that citizens are being monitored to a very large extent? How does that relate to banking secrecy? How does this apply to the protection of personal data? And yet you keep saying that we're not a police state. These project records are very far-reaching interference. I don't hide things that are typically tidy, but in the absence of time, I won't discuss them. Today, one of the messengers said that today's sitting is a sitting of such decisions through throw-ins. We find that to be true. This project is also part of this assessment as such an input. For this reason, my club, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u293	Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I ask you to ask Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the tactics you have adopted on this bill. Is it the same as was presented today by Prime Minister Morawiecki in the case of amendments to the IPN Act, which is that, as he said, the project has raised so much controversy that they have started to act productively, so tactics, controversy for productivity? And, ladies and gentlemen, what are the controversy about this project? Blocking accounts on the basis of an individual decision, the Board of Chief of KAS, eliminating administrative mode. As a result, these decisions can be subjective, political decisions can also be easily imagined, ladies and gentlemen, careless, hasty, etc. What effect? You know, holding back investments, less propensity to invest, capital drains, investment drains. And that will be the productivity that Prime Minister Morawiecki mentioned. Question two: Where is the SME spokesperson? Where's his opinion? Where is the media mention? After all, he's used to the express work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So let him express his opinions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u295	I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Act introduces very restrictive measures: blocking the accounts of qualified entities for short periods, up to 72 hours, abolishing the possibility of appealing this, and abolishing informing the holder or the owner of the account of the blockade. I wanted to ask: How often do such situations happen that we introduce such regulations into our Polish law? How often it is necessary to block, e.g. on a monthly basis? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u297	Thank you. The question is now asked by Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u298	Thank you. It is quite characteristic that, with this morning's votes and the process of the IPN Act, Prime Minister Morawiecki was with us here in the Chamber, and was able to ensure that the Act was renegotiated and properly voted out. On the other hand, in a situation where the state introduces the possibility of blocking the account of Polish entrepreneurs, which will be a huge difficulty for them, which undermines their credibility, there is no Prime Minister Morawiecki. I would like to see him in such situations in the Polish parliament, when he participates in a real conversation about the situation of entrepreneurs in Poland and when he sees how Law and Justice introduces another law which in fact will only make life difficult for entrepreneurs, which supposedly suspects that all entrepreneurs are financial frauds. And I would like Prime Minister Morawiecki to speak on this matter, not just on matters that he needs to explain himself later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u299	Prime Minister Morawiecki is in the Senate. I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, most of all, as a man who has been running a private company every day for almost 30 years, boxing with five, seven checks a year that have been coming out there, it hurts me what I see in this House, which is just a complete lack of understanding of the entrepreneur. You guys don't understand the entrepreneur at all. I would even say that you can see that you have no trust in the Polish entrepreneur. Do you realize, Minister, what it is for the entrepreneur to block the account even for 72 hours? It's a lot. Do you know what that means for an entrepreneur, if that information gets out, goes to the market, to the contractors? This man is burned. He can't sue that decision yet, because he can only file a complaint. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the equipment of the fiscus with a deadly weapon, [[♪ The bell ♪]] With which normal... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u301	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the proposed project is changing the STIR IT system again, making changes there. We do it regularly, every month, we make some legal change that requires this modification. [[Who's gonna pay for this?]] Regarding this today's project, the Polish Bank Association calculated that the cost here will be about PLN 21 million. Therefore, I have a question: Does the government provide compensation for the institutions that carry out this registration and whether they will have to cover the costs themselves, on their own? Second thing. Is the government considering the costs to those concerned because of the frequency of changes to this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u303	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was gonna ask a question earlier during the statement, but I forgot, so I'm asking now. I'm gonna point you right here so it's not like the question isn't about the subject. Today we are talking about amending the Tax Order in connection with the introduction of the split payment mechanism, which is linked to VAT. Therefore, my question is this: Is it true that the Minister confirms that the Government of Law and Justice has finally decided to increase this VAT and leave it at 23% ? Because I'll remind you that we've had a temporary increase in VAT from 22% to 23% for 7 years. According to the media, Minister Czerwińska said today that basically the government would like this VAT to remain at 23% , and as a result of any possible very good economic situation, the government may lower this tax, i.e. the so-called. I've never been a saint. Please take this question seriously and answer: Does the PiS increase VAT? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u305	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u306	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been many technical questions, many strategic questions. At first, I wanted to say that the proposed VAT financial plan for this year was very ambitious and we are calm that this plan, as I say, very ambitious, will be implemented. With regard to the problem of blockades that the High House has in mind, I would like to say, firstly, that today we have a number of areas of law, areas of state control which allow the blocking of business accounts and individuals without the possibility of appeals. This area is e.g. money laundering, counter terrorism, drug trafficking. We believe that tax fraud, VAT fraud are often based on fictional structures, mechanisms very similar to money laundering. It's about trying to prevent money from being tracked. We believe that these offences are so similar that the same model of approach and logic provided for in the European directives, applied in other European Union countries, should also be applied to the risk of VAT fraud. Because we're talking about all these years of cross-border transfers, which were tens of billions and that were lost forever. This critical moment before the flow of funds abroad is the moment where we can still block them and give ourselves the chance to secure budget revenue, and in fact - just to limit the theft from our common pocket. And now I am. Until today there have been no roadblocks imposed on the basis of, let's call it, STIR regulations. Today these blockades are imposed on the basis of old regulations, because I will remind you that such a possibility exists, that this possibility is today and it is responsibly used by the Chief Financial Information Inspector. It's happening today. These actions are intended to improve qualitatively. Why? Thanks to a larger range of information from JPK files, thanks to a larger range of information from STIR we can use these locks in a more responsible way. They will be better placed and there will certainly be no randomness and mistakes in this regard. As regards the limitation of the possibility of appeal, this limitation will result in no leakage of algorithms, while this longer blocking, target blocking, related to real premises that may indicate an attempt to extort, will be carried out on a broader evidence which may be indicated in the justification. Therefore, this 3-month blockage can be fully justified, without the risk of fragmentation of the system of these algorithms. Unfortunately, tax sealing is not an event that we can program on the basis that we have been sealing and not making any changes since 1 January of year X. Sealing is not an event, it's a process. Unfortunately, the other side, the mafia side, organized crime groups, is very flexible, very intelligent, very clever and therefore we must act the same way. That is why it is necessary to refine our legislative, IT, operational, state systems and adapt to this changing environment. [[But you know how much it's gonna cost, every change?]] If we are talking about VPN, which is virtual networks, I would like to say that the use of this type of mechanism is also a behavioral symptom that may be subject to statistical analysis. Of course, we're aware of that. I'll go over the cost issue in a minute. Note concerning entrepreneurs. I, too, have been an entrepreneur for decades, and I believe that entrepreneurs have lost more on VAT fraud and risk of getting involved in a carousel. I personally know family companies, which generally ceased to exist as a result of VAT fraud being kept under the carpet, there was no relevant information about it in public space. The Minister of Finance did not warn entrepreneurs about this and because of information gaps, people lost their companies because of tax arrears, hiding the truth from entrepreneurs. After many years, checks were carried out and entire companies were taken away or stressful situations occurred. Costs. Yes, all new IT solutions, system solutions require implementation and are expensive. I want to talk about two things here. In the banking system, they traded trillions of zlotys, which were the empty money necessary to shoot VAT carousels. On these trillions of zlotys, the banking system also gained its commissions and fees. And it was unfortunately held for many years. Today, we are using the banking system to stand on the side of our common, sovereign interests and counter VAT fraud. Yeah, and that's the cost to the system. However, this risk analysis system also has the potential to be used for some synergies, to improve the self-assessment of the financial system as regards the risks associated with this system. It can ultimately be used not only for fiscal purposes but also for financial purposes. This was the assumption we had in the creation of this idea, in the construction of this system, and it is therefore possible. I think I've raised all the points. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u307	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We shall proceed to the vote on this proposal during the votes. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 26 hours 16 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the urgent government bill amending the Waste Act and some other laws. I would like to remind you that in the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the bill to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We can proceed with the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of additional referral to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. 170 voted against - 220, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 73. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee by 2 July 2018. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the urgent government draft law amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and some other laws. In the discussion, also in the light of this proposal, a proposal was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as adopted by the Sejm Bureau, and, as in the previous case, I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of additional referral to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 177 voted against - 223 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the offer. On the basis of the article. 73. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee by 2 July 2018. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The question is raised by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, certain statements must be repeated like a mantra. Today you want to adopt a law that will radically go to war with a Polish entrepreneur. Of course, this is because you, ladies and gentlemen, do not understand the entrepreneur, because how do you understand it? You don't know what a day-to-day entrepreneur's fight for existence and his nerves is. I know that because I've been running this company for almost 30 years. Ladies and gentlemen, you're introducing a recipe... I'm talking about blocking accounts. Do you realize what it is for an entrepreneur to block an account, even for 72 hours? This is a death sentence in many cases. What does that mean when it comes to non-payment by the trader and his credibility towards his clients? You've got a trust fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm telling you again, in the deadly weapon that the entrepreneur always loses to. And the entrepreneur will remember that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u309	Of course, sir, High Sejm, we are not making a bill at the moment, but we are deciding whether or not to refer it to the committee. [[But that's what it says.]] When we get to third reading, we can talk about it. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2626, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 174 voted against - 233 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 65th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of you want to sign up, please sign up. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 38 hrs. 16 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to make a statement by Anna Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u310	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Another school year is over. For young people and teachers, this was another stage in the implementation of education reform. We must thank the entire teaching staff for their hard work with our children, their respect and appreciation. It is the work of teachers, the work of teachers that depends on our future, the future of Poland. Their shoulders are burdened with working with our children, with our young people who will become adults in a few years' time. As we shape this generation, as we raise them, we will often teach it to the Republic. I wish the whole school community, children and teachers a beautiful, safe rest, sunshine and joy. Ladies and gentlemen! On June 16th, not long ago, I had the privilege of attending the Independence Mundial organized on the football field in Żyrardów. The organizers were the Oratory of St. Jan Bosco, the Mundial de Żyrard group and my humble person. The inventor and coordinator was Mr. Krzysztof Dziwisz. It's beautiful that right now, when this most important mundal in Russia takes place, the girards decided to organize their own championships. It's beautiful that they called their tournament the Independence Mundial. It is not only an emphasis on the year in which the tournament takes place, but also a testimony that they are not alien to patriotic values, they are not familiar with the history of our homeland. We don't celebrate the centenary of independence every day. It's a special year, and I feel like this tournament was special too. Sport is a value in itself. No one needs to explain how important it is in the lives of young people, how it integrates, how it develops physically, how it educates the sense of value and responsibility, how much joy it brings to the winners, how much sadness it brings to the losers. In doing so, he teaches humility and respect, forcing him to improve his skills and accomplishments. Sport is capable of conveying very deep values in a commonly understood language. It can be a carrier of lofty humanistic and spiritual ideals if it is practiced in a spirit of full respect for the rules - it is the words of St. John Paul II. I would like to thank the organisers of the Mundial Independence in Żyrardów from this place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u311	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of today's proceding of the IPN Act in a scandalous way, it can be said, and so fast that neither a second reading has been carried out nor a chance has been given to make any amendments, I wanted to respond to the things that could have been improved in this law if it had not been the crazy pace with which the government had taken it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, I understand, under external pressure, American pressure, Israeli pressure, we are abolishing certain provisions which were specifically challenged by our partners and have had very unpleasant consequences for the image of the Polish state and for mutual relations. On the other hand, in our amendment we also proposed to amend the laws concerning our Ukrainian partner, because it is strange that this law, which is currently in force, talks about Nazi crimes, but nothing is said about them being German Nazi crimes, talking about communist crimes, but not talking about crimes, I don't know, Soviet or Russian or Polish Communists - but it is often said about Ukrainian crimes, Ukrainian nationalists, Ukrainian troops, Ukrainian criminals. That is why we proposed an amendment whereby the crime in Volyn would be treated as it deserves. It is about the same adequate description as in the case of Nazi and communist crimes, which would not hurt, would not strike all Ukrainians, would not stigmatize them in a special way. We have not been given a chance to present this amendment, to justify and to carry out it. Next thing you know, it's such a big deal. It is stated in the act that any non-governmental organization which has entered into its statute, in its tasks to protect the good name of Poland, can bring civil process for the protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland or of the Polish nation to anyone who, according to this organization, is a good name of the Polish people or of the Polish Republic, is at risk. This applies not only to the issues of World War II and the Holocaust, but also to all of this. Someone will say: Poles can't play soccer, they're jerks, and some non-governmental organization can make a case for him. Well, that's a possibility. This will ridicule us in the international arena if NGOs, because of their overzealousness, I don't know, nationalism and misunderstood patriotism, because of such an assessment of the situation, will bring matters to anybody they want, so to speak, to bring such a case. That is why we have proposed that it be possible, but that such a case should be brought by the Attorney General - a non-governmental organization that protects the good name of Poland, as it has some objections, allegations and would like to carry out this protection through the court, it reports it to the Attorney General. He will be a certain filter that will cause cases to be brought up, but only where it is actually justified, where it has a solid basis and not such a funny baking - it is about our legislation - which would ridicule our country, ridicule Poland. The state leaves this provision. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that what sometimes happens in the world, talking about Polish death camps or such presentation of things in Poland, which, as we feel, hurts us, is unfair, it is wrong, it is some wrong generalization, sometimes it is due to ignorance. We have proposed that, at the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, a Council on Past Research, made up of outstanding scientists, which would monitor research in this area, make some suggestions that could also apply for scholarships. We know how much role people who write in foreign languages play in spreading Poland's good name and knowledge about Poland's history, e.g. Norman Davies, Timothy Snyder, but there aren't many people like that in the world. There are many scientists who may have taken care of Polish matters if the Polish government wanted to grant them a scholarship on this matter, to allow such research. Well, our record of creating such a counsel at the Minister, which could conduct and support such monitoring, which would prevent primitive, superficial, factually based allegations, was rejected by the State as well. I believe that the opportunity to improve this law has not been taken advantage of. What PiS does in this crazy hurry is simply harming Poland and thus violates the principles of democratic, solid drafting of such important laws. This harms the interests of Poland - this arrogance in action, lack of openness to dialogue, not having any discussion with Polish scientists and centres that conduct these studies, their failure to listen to them, their failure to listen to their opinions and their proposals in this regard. Unfortunately, this opportunity is largely lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u313	Now, please take the floor of Mr Ireneus Profit, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Mrs Agnieszko Kołacz-Leszczyńska! Your flaming speech about my supposed election campaign reminded me of what happened four years ago from my hometown, Wałbrzych, when a Member of the Civic Platform bought out the billboards two months before the election date and promoted herself as a hard-working person. Yes, Member, it was you. Perhaps we should return to this matter, as the expenditure on this election campaign was certainly not included in the expenditure of the Civic Platform electoral committee, for which you later took part. Maybe you should explain to the voters who actually financed this illegal campaign. Attention to Marshal Stanisław Tyszka: I no longer have any doubt that the spirit of freedom of speech has long since left the Marshal. I explain that the electoral campaign involves respect for expenditure, payment of invoices and bills for political marketing, as was the case with Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. As we know, the President of the Republic has not yet announced the timetable for the election campaign for the local government. I don't run a campaign like this. I carry out my duties as a Member of the Sejm and am fully involved in matters of the district and in matters of the state. The Seym Court is a member of the Members who hold a free mandate. They have the right to speak, including the right to rectify, and voters will assess whether the Members' statements were important and whether they were affected by their problems. The restrictions in this respect, which you applied to Marshal Tyszka, without allowing me to correct Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska's statements, are a violation of the law, including the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, or perhaps even a constitution, which guarantees freedom of expression in the article. 54. With regard to PR, because this is really what we are talking about, there are politicians more active and less active in this area. President Wałbrzych, mentioned here, uses the opportunity to shape his positive image in excess. I had the opportunity to participate in several local events. Although they were somewhat aesthetically embarrassing, I do not see anything inappropriate in this, that politicians take every opportunity to present themselves favorably to voters. These are basic principles of behaviour in democratic systems. Some exaggeration hurts like me, but some voters are pleased to have close contact with public figures. Now a few words about Wałbrzych. This is my hometown where I grew up. I am emotionally involved with Wałbrzych and I have an idea of how to give Wałbrzych a strong boost for development. As a Member, I have a duty to assess the state of the district and its capital and to take measures that benefit the inhabitants of Wałbrzych. Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska, I will say, confabulated, saying that I am wrong about the people of Wałbrzych. The talk was about the debt of our city, which is on the 5th place among the most indebted cities in Poland per capita, i.e. on the head of the inhabitant. The Member said that I was wrong about the residents. I was talking about Wałbrzych being misruled. The current president rules two terms, has led to extremely high debt, and today he is looking for different opportunities to get out of this debt. The Civic Platform rules in Wałbrzych already four terms. These are the consequences of the governments of the next presidents of the Civic Platform. I won't comment on the city's debt efforts, because they're just weak. These effects could be discussed during the parliamentary debate in the form of liquidation of the municipality, so that this would not be the liquidation of the municipality of Wałbrzych. The two terms I was talking about were lost. I think it's time to cut this case and start repairing our community also in terms of finances. The current President Wałbrzych is campaigning for changes in administrative divisions. This may be a secret plan of the Civic Platform to extend Wałbrzych, but the Treasury will probably not take on a debt of more than PLN 600 million. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You have to stop hypocritical, don't lie to the voters. Only an in-depth analysis of the state of local government units in financial terms will allow for a reliable diagnosis and then a development strategy for local communities. I will be actively involved in this process with full commitment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Especially in the case of my town of Wałbrzych. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u315	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u316	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! The history of the creation of the Żywiec reservoir of the Żywiec Water Tank dates back to 1966, when several Żywiec villages were flooded. The zywiecki reservoir was created by the hilling of the Soly river with a ground dam of up to 300 m long. A water power plant was built on it. For several years I have been discussing the rehabilitation of the management of Lake Żywiecki. First of all, the lake must be cleaned and the bottom deepened, because as the years passed, its retention capacity was significantly reduced. Lake Żywieckie from year to year simply shrinks. Places that were once flooded with water are now covered with shrubs, vegetation, and trees. Over the years, the rivers and streams that flowed into the lake brought millions of cubic meters of mud, which lags at the bottom. The level of the water mirror is also significantly lowered. There is a need for adequate flood protection, protection and management of lake shores, which in some places today resemble dumps of garbage coming into the lake from higher towns, as well as modernization of rain and sewage sewers. Through these work, which is a priority, many investments could be made to develop tourism on Lake Żywiecki, which falls from year to year, which is unacceptable to me as a representative of this area. Therefore, I call for every possible action, every effort to ensure that one of the most beautiful lakes, surrounded by mountain areas, the peaks of mountains covered with beautiful forests, is reborn and becomes our pride. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u317	Thank you. I ask for the floor of Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the repeated misinformation during the housing debates by both Members of the Civic and Modern Platform, I remind you: at the beginning of the parliamentary term in 2005, a large number of apartments were promised by the then Prime Minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz, not the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, who is accused of this statement. This promise was conditional. Namely, it concerned a situation in which the rule of law and justice would last for two terms, i.e. eight years. Meanwhile, that term lasted less than two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u319	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u320	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From Monday in Warsaw the 5th National Conference of Drugs - Drug Addiction takes place. Policy, science and practice, but also 25-year conference the activities of the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction. It seems appropriate, on this occasion, here in the High House, to present with a few words of reflection and great thanks, respect for the achievements and recognition for the work of the office and all those people who have created its foundations and have been active in combating drug addiction for 25 years, and express their thanks, appreciation and congratulations. Since these 25 years have come to an end, I would also like to mention those who, when it comes to thinking about the problem of drug addiction and drug addiction in general, have had a significant impact on our Poles, awareness and attitudes. So let me call you back at the very beginning, Dr. Zbigniew Thielle, who was one of the first chiefs in Poland a long time ago, was said at the time: the Toxicomans treatment units. Then, after many years, he moved from a psychiatric hospital in Lubież in Lower Silesia to Warsaw and in Warsaw in 1980 became the chief of detoxification and treatment of addictions in a psychiatric hospital at ul. It's a New Year's Eve. On his initiative a drug treatment clinic was established, which had its location and has at ul. Brave in Warsaw. It is also worth mentioning the achievements of the Garvolinian sanatorium for children and young people and Dr. Ewa Andrzejewska, under whose wings not only career was created, but also some idea for developing therapy in the framework of very original projects of many of her successors. Marek Kotanski started his work there too. Going from Dr. Ewa Andrzejewska, I would like to mention the whole work of Marek Kotanski and of course the first years of the centre's activities in Głoków, and then the creation of Monaru and the whole powerful work of the Monarov community in order to change attitudes towards drugs and drugs. Therefore, recalling this logical factual sequence, but also the mental giants of change, I recall the important fact of 1989 and the establishment of the Solidarni Plus Association, the organization leading the settlement for people living with HIV and their families and since 1991 under the direction of Fr. Arkadiusz Nowak - similar centers in Konstancin and Piastów. In the field of substitution therapy, it is worth to bow down, among others. Dr. Karina Chmielewska and Dr. Helena Baran, who at the Institute of Psychoneurology in Warsaw undertook to conduct a pilot methadone program against 120 pioneer patients, or developers of treatment and therapy programmes tailored to the needs of patients with double psychiatric diagnosis at the Familia Centre in Gliwice, Dr. Andrzej Maj-Majewski. For many years the national office has been headed by Piotr Jabłoński, a person of extremely great modesty, but also, I think, diligence. I was on the first day of the conference on Monday and with you enjoying the achievements of these 25 years and wish you many, many years of this steadfastness, which is characteristic not only of the head of Piotr Jabłoński, but also of your great predecessors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u321	Thank you. The statement will now be made by Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, it must be said with great sadness that today the Polish Sejm had its day of disgrace. Ladies and gentlemen! A few months ago, an amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance was adopted. In fact, this amendment contained one important provision providing for the possibility of punishing, prosecuting people or institutions who ask Poles and the Polish state to participate in crimes, including the worst crimes of World War II, such as crimes of genocide, as well as running or participating in the conduct of death camps. From the beginning I was a critic of this amendment because I pointed out very precisely what its imperfection was, but I also showed how it should be improved. I proposed my own wording of this provision, so that in a clear and sharp way, it would point out very precisely such cases in which the Polish State or the Polish Underground State, or persons cooperating or acting on behalf of that State, are asked by anyone to participate in the organisation or running of death camps in the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945. And such an amendment and such a change could be made so that, in a precise and clear way, it could be effective at the same time. At the same time, I have always thought that it is better to pursue such cases on a civilian basis than on a criminal basis, in connection with opportunities or restrictions on freedom of expression. I am a great supporter, a very hot advocate of freedom of speech, and personally I think that nothing that is said should be punished, practically for nothing, with little exceptions. Nothing you say should be punished by criminal law. Unfortunately, it didn't happen that way. Today, the Sejm adopted a law which removed this provision in its entirety without leaving the Polish State any real opportunity to combat such cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst part of all of this is that this has happened under the clear pressure of foreign countries and foreign factors. And this is absolutely unacceptable and outrageous, because it really means that the Seym has deprived itself of its sovereignty, limited itself in it. And since the Sejm deprived itself of its sovereignty, it actually stated that the Polish state renounces part of its sovereignty. Can you imagine a situation in which, for example, Is the law changing in Poland at the request of President Putin or Chancellor Merkel? What would then be the discussion, what would be the conversation, what would be the huge fight, if it turned out that as a result of requests from Moscow or Berlin, or any other country, Poland changes the law. And here it really doesn't matter that in this case the demand was coming from Tel Aviv or Washington. It doesn't matter. The important thing is that as a result of foreign interference almost in the 18th century, in times of the worst collapse of the Polish state, the Sejm is also a law in Poland. It is a day of absolute shame. And I hope that Polish voters will learn far-reaching lessons from this. Especially since another project entered the Sejm a few days ago, a project of profound changes, a profound amendment of the electoral ordination to the European Parliament. In fact, this amendment converts the proportionate ordination required by the EU treaties to the majority ordination which the Treaties forbid. This amendment results in a majority ordination in the multi-mandate districts, because it is always in the multi-mandate wards, but the whole perfidia of this solution is that the D-Hondt method will be used to calculate votes, which will result in even a person who is in the multi-mandate ward, e.g. Six-mandate, she will have another fourth or fifth score, she will not get to Europarlment, because the method of D. Hondt will eliminate her from it. The use of the D-Hondt method is really the pursuit of two-partyness in this case. Law and Justice are deeply concerned about competition, especially euro-realistic competition. But it is this competition of true uniorealists that will be a loud reminder that it was the Law and Justice that led to the problems that we have with the Union now, because it was Lech Kaczyński who signed the Treaty of Lisbon. And the more Law and Justice will limit our ability to get to Europe, the louder we will be reminded of that. Too bad, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity, High Izbo, that we must experience such moments of disgrace in the Polish Parliament. But the voters see it and learn from it. Besides, I think the U.S.S.S. should be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-sejm-65-1.u323	Oh, my gosh! That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 65th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 66th session of the Sejm, convened on 3, 4, 5 and 6 July 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 10]]
