ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Marcin Duszek, Marta Kubiak, Katarzyna Osos and Elżbieta Zielińska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marcin Duszek and Ms Marta Kubiak. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Elżbieta Zielińska. Sir, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - immediately after the end of the votes, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 17, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 5:30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: UNESCO World Heritage Site - 3 p.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Road Transport - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u3	Thank you very much. I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers has notified the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act, Protocols on the amendment of the article. 50 lit. (a) and 56 of the Montreal Convention on International Civil Aviation on 6 October 2016. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print No 2493. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The design is 2411 print, along with the autorepair. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to complete the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. There's an objection. We're gonna vote on it. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u4	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm formally request a 15-minute break and a call for the Seniors Convention to be removed from the agenda of the first reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and biofuels. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a return to the Petrol+ project. That's what our consent will never be. It will not be ours, as a Kukiz club15, to allow us to drain the pockets of Poles. Using this law to extract PLN 2.5 billion per year from taxpayers' pockets. If you want to get your money out, start with each other. Let's cancel the party subsidies. Show that you are treated as citizens. Because only law and justice, good change, wants to rob Poles and citizens. We won't be allowed to do that. Since the beginning of this term of office, Kukiz15 has been in favour of throwing such laws in the trash, because Poles simply do not deserve it. Ladies and gentlemen! Why is the Law and Justice, why does a good change want to harm Poles in the coming vacation, want to make them so nice to Poles? That shouldn't be our agreement. This system should be changed at all. One-mandate electoral districts is a clou system change, because surely no one elected in one-mandate electoral districts would dare to introduce such a disgraceful bill under the Sejm. The increase in fuel prices by 10 gr per litre is a disgrace, it's a granda. As Kukiz.15 we are absolutely against this bill and hence my appeal to Minister Tchórzewski. Minister Tchórzewski, how embarrassed are you? How can you not be ashamed to introduce such a disgraceful bill to the Sejm and increase the price of fuel by 10 gr per litre when vacations are near? And that's all under the cover of the disabled protest. Minister, this is really a granda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You entered the Sejm on the PiS list.]] [[Voice from the room: Easy, easy.]] [[Give me the money for the campaign.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u5	High Izbo! A formal request for adjournment has been made. I will put this proposal to the vote, while the convening of the Senior Convention lies within the competence of the Marshal of the Sejm and it will depend on him to call him. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For 190, against 235, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal made by the Sejm Bureau to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[About what?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For 242, against 175, holding down five. [[But about what?]] The Sejm accepted the offer. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, - to support new investments, - about amending the Education Law Act. The reports shall be printed, respectively, 2513, 2483 and 2500. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: Request for the cancellation of Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm dismisses and elects the Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members in one vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the request to dismiss Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Republic of Poland and with the choice of Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska for this position, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. 168 Members voted against - 249, with 9 abstentions. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] The Sejm rejected the motion to dismiss Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm and the election of Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska as Marshal of the Sejm. Congratulations, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Piotr Gliński. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Piotr Gliński, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The statutory majority - 231. 188 Members voted against - 237, with three abstentions. [[Applause]] The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński, against not obtaining the required majority of votes. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws contained in print No 2526. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was an objection to the completion of the agenda for this report. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, No 2480 and 2526, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 235, against - 196, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the agenda item added. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We would like to refer to item 3 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: - a government draft law amending the social pension law, - a parliamentary draft law amending the Act of 27 June 2003 on social disability. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2488-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft laws amending the Social Rent Act, contained in prints 2472 and 2469. At its 62nd meeting on 8 May 2018, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the draft was re-directed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to examine the amendment. The second-reading amendment was made by the Modern Club. The amendment aims to exempt social pensions from income tax. This involves giving a new sound to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 8 and Article 1. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Income Tax Act. The amendment was discussed, which was very substantive. The submission of this amendment, which concerns income tax, at this stage of the bill would be incompatible with the principles of correct legislation. Moreover, a breach in the general principle of taxation of pensions would be contrary to the principle of social justice. The committee therefore asks the Sejm to reject this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! We are at the third reading of a very important law, a law on amending the Social Rent Act, which concerns a wide group of people with disabilities. I wanted to thank you very much for your work on the committees for the discussion. I would like to thank you for the fact that, despite the amendments and the various positions on this issue, all Members voted in favour of this law at the committee meeting. I repeat the proposal that the High House vote unanimously in favour of raising social pensions to take another step towards improving the material situation of people with disabilities, while at the same time fulfilling the request of parents of persons with disabilities presented in the Sejm, which was just as formulated: equalisation of social pensions with a pension for total incapacity for work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u7	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2488. The Commission sets out minority proposals and in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a different wording of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 social pension law. Ms Agnieszka Chagaj, Kukiz club15, came to the question. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is called a minority request. I ask you to listen, because it is a request of a minority, a quiet minority, this time a non-plausible one. This time it is a minority request of 280 thousand. persons with disabilities since birth to a large extent. I ask you, if you are unable to vote in favour of this amendment, at least listen to this voice because he is silent. Mr. Marshal, this is very important. He's quiet. This amendment can actually end this strike that we have in the Seym, which I'm sure you can't look at without some kind of heartbeat. This amendment also dismisses the charge of unconstitutionality if we really want to give these people 1300 PLN of minimum social living. She will really allow to improve the lives and lives of people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ones that need it most, the minority. Please vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u9	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 196, against - 233, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 8 and Article 1. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on personal income tax. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, a modern club. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u10	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Club The modern has also submitted a draft act on social pension, a law very similar, identical, although further. We were also talking about equalizing up to 100%. , but our law is not taken into account today, so we are proposing an amendment to the Government Act, which says that we should not pay personal taxes on social pensions. This was also asked by protesters today in the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! These aren't big amounts. If the law is calculated at 550 thousand, then the income tax not deducted is calculated at 770 thousand. [[Voice from the room: probably millions, not thousands.]] This gives each of these people several dozen additional gold. Here we have 165 zł, in case of non-deductible tax, these people would get 190 zł per hand. It's really not a big amount, and it's always gonna be a big amount. [[♪ The bell ♪]] additional impact on their household budget. Please vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u11	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 198, against - 233, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority application, applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 198, against - 234, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Ms Agnieszka Chagaj, the Kukiz club15, came to the questions. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress once again: this bill is indeed a historic moment, because after many years the social pension is 100% the lowest pension, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is still not the minimum social pension in Poland. The social minimum in Poland is PLN 1300. 400 PLN per apartment, 300 PLN for food, 51 PLN for clothing, 41 PLN for treatment, 18 PLN for access to culture, 16 PLN for education. Ladies and gentlemen! What else do these disabled people have to give up? Let's think about it. [[And the retirees? The costs are not only borne by disabled persons.]] The amendment we tabled would cost only PLN 2 billion. She wouldn't give you the posts, but perhaps she would give you the eternal gratitude of those people. Please, plan for help so you can equal up, not down. I know there are still a lot of groups of people who need your support, but start with the groups, and you're really gonna get to the end of this term because that's what we can afford. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u13	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was talking about this yesterday, and today I would like to ask the same question again. We have put together three draft social pension laws. There was a government project, there were two parliamentary projects: the Kukiz Club15 and the Modern Club. Once again, I ask: Why was the project of the Modern Social Welfare Club not included in this debate, a project that went much further than the government project, a project for which all these people, not only those protesting in the Sejm, but also all those taking social pensions, waiting? Why isn't he on the agenda at this meeting? When can we expect this project to go back to the Sejm? Do we have to wait again for two years, during which the Modern Law on Helping Persons with Disabilities will be held in a Seym freezer? I ask you to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u15	Thank you very much. Minister Elizabeth Rafalska has the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In a moment we will be voting on a very important project, an important project for people with disabilities, including in particular for 280 000. social renownists, a project that implements the long-term demand of disabled people's environments - I stress - a long-term postulate of disabled people's environments, saying that the social pension... [[Game in the O.R.]] I understand that for some of you this is not an interesting subject, but perhaps out of respect for people with disabilities and those protesting... [[Applause]] [[There's respect! There's respect!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u17	Mr Budka, please calm down. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: It's a project, ladies and gentlemen, which equals the social pension... [[Voice from the room: Let the Jail calm down.]] ...to date with 84% of it. , with a pension due to total incapacity for work, it also equals it with a minimum pension in Poland, we must also, please, remember, carry out at the same time an important request of the ladies, I have protesters in the Sejm. [[A voice from the room: Tell them that.]] And it must be fair to say that we are voting on this project today and that this equalisation will take place, that is, the implementation of this demand, and that is also the victory of protesting people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, let's remember that there is a second project that talks about it. We offer complete new support for services, access to rehabilitation, orthopedic equipment, medical materials and medical equipment. These are very important demands that are being implemented today. I would very much like - and I think that most of you, regardless of what political option you represent - to make sure that we all have such a wish that this protest, which is taking place in the Seym halls, is over. An important part of these demands has been implemented. We will not solve all the problems of people with disabilities. [[Give these people money, not yourself.]] If it were so simple to find a solution, please, as the honourable Member said, that it might concern this narrow group, which we are calling today a group of social pensioners, I assure you, Madam, that we should proceed today with another project. Only there is no such solution, please, because, after the previous protest, we already have the case law of the Constitutional Court, which imposes certain obligations upon us... [[Where's the money?]] ...and we're going to execute his sentence. [[Where's the money?]] Yes. And, ladies and gentlemen, negligence, not just the last two or so teams, we won't make up for it in two or three years. [[What did you do with the money?]] This may not say much, but, Mr President, yes, on 1 April 220 000. families with children with disabilities received support under our programme, which amounted to over 900 million PLN in the first three quarters of 2016, and now amounts to 1300 million PLN. It is addressed to families with children with disabilities. [[Applause]] That's nothing? That's measurable help. That's measurable help. This is help addressed to workshops of occupational therapy, this is help addressed to environmental self-help homes that arise at a rate not like that... [[It's no mercy on your part.]] ...as before. This is also an increase in spending on daily support centres by PLN 158 million with total expenditure of not more than PLN 400 million, as was the case in 2015. This is an increase in spending on disabled people by almost thirty-six percent. Does that solve all the problems? Of course not. Of course not. And these problems, even if we found money today to create rehabilitation centers, early diagnostic centers... [[From the foundation...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: from the shooting range.]] ...we will not solve them overnight and we will not solve them ourselves here in Warsaw, because we need the involvement of associations, NGOs, the need for a committed self-government that will receive support. And, ladies and gentlemen, what do the disabled environments say? The approach must also be strongly individualised here. The approach to this must be individualised, support addressed directly. After all, we all in this House know very well what is the caselaw in Poland, what is the decline in this case-law, which in the years when there was high unemployment, was often case-law taking into account social reasons and not health reasons, and this is what causes today, Madam, that in a group of people with a significant degree of disability there are people in very difficult states and people in much better, who do not need such help as those who are in difficult states. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for elementary honesty in this discussion. [[Applause]] Elementary honesty, please. But lastly - I talked about it yesterday - regardless of what the temperature of today's debate is, I thank you for yesterday's discussion, very calm, balanced and substantive, because such a discussion is needed. Such a discussion is needed because if there is ever a change and anyone else is in power, it will be confronted with the same very serious problem. And we've really been trying to solve these problems step by step for the first few days. You don't have the right to leave. To accuse us because we have not committed this sin. [[Applause]] We have not committed this sin. I understand that we all appreciate the difficulty of raising a disabled child when we are here in this House. This respect to all mothers, all families, fathers is absolutely due, and there is no doubt about it. But, ladies and gentlemen, the solutions the government is proposing, and my responsibility is also the result of responsibility for the whole system. Today, we are talking about the social pension and we are pursuing exactly this request, which has been made, to equalise this social pension. Let us remember that the minimum pension is the same as the social pension and that the minimum pension must be worked for 20 and 25 years. These people can't work for health reasons. They can't work. But there must also be an imbalance between the social security system and the social security system. That too is very important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] I ask the High House not to abuse political argument in this discussion because it is unnecessary for anyone. We need the Sejm working in substance, the wise Sejm, [[Applause]] A parliament that improves the level of trust in him, because as long as I am here in this House, I am, ladies and gentlemen, he enjoys weak, too weak trust - and I believe that he is undeservedly lacking public confidence. And you're a big part of it, too. [[Applause]] I'm asking that this project be adopted... [[You've encouraged us nicely, ma'am.]] ...with full acceptance and support from the entire House. I deeply believe that this will happen after all, because this is what people with disabilities are waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2488 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 437 against - 1, no one abstained. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The Sejm passed a law on amending the Social Rent Act. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law on special solutions supporting people with significant disabilities. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2489. The Commission also presents a minority proposal. In this minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 4. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz,15, came forward to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is another amendment, which is a minority proposal - but this minority 285 thousand. persons with disabilities since birth to a large extent. This amendment in a good law, which goes in the right direction, allows not to differ, Minister, needs or people with disabilities in this particular group. Your law speaks of witnessing - supposedly - 500 PLN and you indicate diapers and orthopedic equipment that people with disabilities will be able to purchase. But there are also groups of intellectually disabled people, with other disabilities, visually impaired, deaf. They want each other, for example. get hip therapy or buy audiobooks to communicate with the world, but they won't be able to use it anymore. Well, then tell me what's the difference that in the case of a person who makes 10,000, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is possible for her to decide 500+, and in the case of a pensioner who has 900 PLN, it is not possible for him to decide what he wants to buy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u19	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u20	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u21	Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not want to deprive my son of his right to be a citizen," said one of the mothers who have been protesting in the building of this parliament for 22 days. And this is what this protest is saying: about dignity, about full participation in society, about autonomous life. This bill is a lot of declarations, but no means. This bill does not respond to protesters' demands. Prime Minister! Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs! We're happy to see you in good health. [[So do we.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Surely the campaign for the European Parliament on the Danube is very demanding, but we are pleased that you have delegated three representatives to dialogue with the disabled: Mrs Krynicka, Mr Żalka and you [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Fifty. [[Applause]] But these are names, these are symbols... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...dialogue with disabled people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u24	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I form a question for Members of the applicants, but after the last speech by Minister Rafalska - also for Minister Rafalski. Do you believe and agree that the adoption of this amendment is precisely implementing the protesters' request for 21 days of parents of persons with disabilities and of the disabled themselves? That's one thing. Do you agree with the opinion that such a form of direct surcharge for persons with a high degree of disability also meets the demands of those who, being severely disabled, try to be independent, active and, among others, active. They're making enough money that they're being rescinded by social security benefits? Finally, Mrs Minister, do you think that the Sejm should work in substance, that it should work at all? Isn't it scandalous that there wasn't a Sejm meeting for two weeks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When did parents and children protest in the Seym? And isn't it your fault... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Where'd you get that tan?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u25	Thank you. Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicants - Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that these persons have the right, among others. for health services, rehabilitation, orthopedic supplies, auxiliary equipment and rehabilitation equipment. [[And so far they haven't?]] At the same time, it is written that the Sejm calls on the government of the Republic of Poland and the local authorities to take action aimed at the implementation of these rights. It was 1997. And this project, which we are working on today, is realising the Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[Voice from the room: From one card to the other.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real record, it is four benefits for people with disabilities: access to specialists without referrals, without queues, unlimited unlimited access to medical articles and devices and unlimited rehabilitation, financed not from the household budgets of these people, but from the money of the payer of the National Health Fund, not from the state budget, not from the deficit, as said yesterday by the Deputy Minister of Health Janusz Cieszyński, but from the surplus developed by the National Health Fund in the efficient management of the President and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, without raising health contributions. [[What are you talking about?]] We want to ensure what adults expect with a significant degree of disability. Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking how. Well, we'll reroute, we'll change the National Health Fund's financial plan by the end of May. This year, since July, we provide unlimited access to rehabilitation services, without burdening household budgets, diapers from which you laugh, orthotics, lenses, mattresses and other articles of these 130 listed, accessible and necessary for the everyday existence of people with a significant degree of disability. What else are we gonna do? In places where these people didn't have access, they're gonna have it. Why? This is because, where financial resources appear, there are entities who want to carry out these services. [[And the value of the contract will be greater?]] This was the case with oncology, this was the case with invasive cardiology - see, that was the case - and so it will be in the case of rehabilitation of people with a significant degree of disability. We've been able to do it since July this year. It's all together. I would like to thank all those people who, at the committee meeting yesterday, at second reading, noticed that this is a step in the right direction, because that is indeed the case. This is another support package prepared by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki for people with disabilities, but it does not solve all the problems, it helps to this specific extent, so that in the modest household budgets of carers of some people with a significant degree of disability it is proposed 500 PLN. There will be a lot more in some of these wallets. Ladies and gentlemen! It's gonna be simple. Not in commercial facilities, so far... At the same time, these commercial facilities will be able to carry out services if they sign contracts with the National Health Fund payer, and we, when we estimate the costs of these services, can include those who are now rehabilitating in private institutions in the scope of the public health service operation. We'll do it, I hope, with you, because there's a lot of concern in this room, empathy, tolerance. I ask all of you to support this project because we are not in breach of the deficit, we are not reaching for budget resources. There were such questions as why there are no financial consequences here. Ladies and gentlemen! Already in the first quarter of this year, due to the planned higher revenues of the National Health Fund, we had more than PLN 100 million of health contributions than initially planned. This money will be and from July this year until the end of 2018 we can really allocate more than PLN 450 million to rehabilitation aid to people with a significant degree of disability and another million will be devoted to access to medical devices. Thank you very much for your words of support for this project, and I ask that we together, above divisions, because disability has no political colors, express what we hear, it is precisely about helping this environment, so that together we can overcome these already proverbial seven stairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u27	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 202, against - 231, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. Before the vote on the whole of the bill, Members raised questions. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You had two and a half years to execute the judgment of the tribunal, which you still refer to. Why didn't you? I am very pleased that you have noticed this judgment of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] It's because of that sentence. The modern bill will support this bill, but only because it does not differentiate and divide people with disabilities, which is 5 million in Poland. It is not unfair that this group, which is protesting in the Seym today, is fighting for rights for 280 thousand. It's not unfair. Injustice is on the side of the government, and it is unfair that the government is unable to extend the scope of this group's requests, i.e. to give a rehabilitation supplement not 280 thousand. persons, but all persons with a significant degree of disability. It is your fault, your responsibility for injustice and your problem that you cannot solve this issue. This bill does not respond to any of the protests here in the Seym of the people. Let's be aware of that. The protest is ongoing and no law of this type will end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u29	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is fiction. This bill is another example of sloppy government and Marshal Kuchciński. She was permitted in violation of the Constitution, contrary to the Sejm's rules, because there are no financial consequences. This bill is sobering people's eyes, Minister, [[Applause]] because if there are no financial consequences, how do you calculate the value of the package at PLN 520? That's one big lie. If it's so great, why are those 22nd day protesters there? [[That's the question.]] Ladies and gentlemen... I didn't bother you. Don't bother me. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill doesn't contain... doesn't meet the demands that these people are reporting. A question for the Minister. Three years you've been here. That's not what you said when you were in the opposition, and here's something else. Your empathy towards people is the attitude of Mr Żelka, Mrs Krynicka and Mr Pieta. [[Applause]] That's your empathy for people. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The state in panic is now doing anything, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To show the public: look, we did something for these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u31	Thank you. The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u32	That's one big lie. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What have you done?]] [[For eight years, nothing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u33	... Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u34	Thank you, Marshal. Once more questions. Does this bill respond to protesters' demands in the Sejm? No. [[Voices from the hall: Yes!]] Does this law cover the disabled to a high degree up to the age of 18? No. [[Voices from the hall: Yes!]] Will this law cover the cost of treatments in commercial centers and rehabilitation tours? No. [[Voices from the hall: Yes!]] Is this law a real solution to the needs of the disabled? No. [[Voices from the hall: Yes!]] He's picnic, cheating, and eyewashing. Could the Sejm have gathered two weeks ago to deal with the protesters' problems? He could have. [[Voices from the room: No!]] Why didn't he come? [[Because no law can do that.]] Because Marshal Kuchciński takes neither protesters nor Members seriously. Finally, the last question: Does the Minister believe, by distinguishing parents and carers of disabled people, that they can really be among them, as Mr Zalek said, degenerates who do not deserve 500 PLN in cash? What makes you say that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u35	The voice of the Undersecretary of State... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please? Which one of you will speak? Minister Elizabeth Rafalska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u36	I won't allow it, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...for you to impertinate me to insinuate things I've never said. [[Applause]] [[That's not true!]] You're the one who said that I did, and I never said that. I expect you to apologize. Otherwise, please consider this matter by the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Apologize!]] [[In that case...]] [[Some Members chant: Apologize! Apologize! Apologize!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u37	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2489 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 424, against - 1, 12 Members abstained. The Sejm has passed a law on specific solutions to support people with a significant degree of disability. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on the processing of passenger transit data. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2481-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bartosz Józwiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report from the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the processing of passenger name data, print No 2461. The Sejm at its 62nd meeting on 8 May 2018, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2481 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Administrative and Home Affairs Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 8 May 2018, asks the High Sejm to approve the following amendments... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 point 6 is replaced by the following: PNR flight - aircraft operating regular or irregular air transport of passengers whose PNR data are processed, carried out from the territory of a third country, with a scheduled landing on the territory of the Republic of Poland or a flight departing from the territory of the Republic of Poland with a scheduled landing in a third country, including, in both cases, flights with stops in the territory of the Republic of Poland, Member States or third countries, reject; this was the request of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club; in Article. 4 in paragraph 2. 1 point 6 shall be replaced by the following: information on the payment of the ticket, including the number of the payment card, the cash payment information, the information on the invoice or other proof of payment for the ticket and the information contained in the transfer order: bank account numbers or the account numbers of the cooperative credit and savings banks of the sender and payee, the name of the sender and the recipient, the amount and currency of the transfer, the date and time of the transfer and its title - also reject; the same is the request of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Amendment 3. - that is essentially the same amendment, according to which in the following article, in this case Article. 33 in paragraph 2. 1 in point 3, additional details on the accounts in cooperative savings and credit banks are also added, and this is also the proposal of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u39	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2481. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants propose the new wording of point 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. [[But there's a question.]] There's a question. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment limits the collection of passenger information to those arriving from outside the European Union. The directive suggests that countries can choose whether to extend this scope to all passengers, both from the European Union and from outside. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration decided that it would collect all the information, i.e. it chose the broader version. We must realise that this is about 35 million passengers. In view of the laws which Law and Justice have so far pushed and in respect of which it has authorized services to collect practically all information about Polish citizens - at the moment the service will receive data concerning 35 million citizens - the question is: Are our services prepared for processing such a quantity of information and will they not simply choke on this information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u41	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This is an amendment that was already reported at first reading, then at second reading, and now it is again voted. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the EU directive allows for maximum expansion of citizens' surveillance. It also allows you to collect internal flight data. But let's ask ourselves a few questions. What's that supposed to do? Of course, we will immediately hear the answer that improves safety. Ladies and gentlemen! Are the systems for protecting intra-EU flights so ineffective today that we are constantly dealing with various types of terrorist acts or other acts? No. Second thing: Will this really change anything in a situation where other means of communication can also be used within the Union? Neither did I. What difference does that make? This only changes the fact that we achieve much greater access for many services to very important data, sensitive data of more than 35 million citizens. And Poland does not have to be at the forefront in this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] those countries that report it. In this particular case, you want to be at the forefront of the European Union. Interesting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u43	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Polaczek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was not going to ask a question, but in the light of the speeches made by my predecessors, I would like to ask government representatives: Is Slovenia alone - I am sorry - Finland has declared restricting the collection and processing of this data to citizens outside the European Union, and all other European Union countries adopt the same regulation as the High House here today? [[Voice from the room: That's the question. Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u45	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 194, against - 235, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 6. This amendment is linked to the 3rd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15, asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! These amendments are very simple: clarification. I absolutely do not understand the ministry, which insists that the word "other" will cover everything, because it is a word of broad significance. However, we are very clear: we support the SKOK's proposal that in detailing the data that will be collected, also add account numbers in cooperative savings and credit banks, because they are not identical to bank account numbers. So, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't change anything in the bill, absolutely nothing. In fact, it clarifies and refines it, sealing it. The ministry and the state, on the other hand, do not want to do this. I absolutely don't understand the purpose. The only one that's imposing on me is no, because no, because it's not our idea. Thank you. [[No, they're covering those bills.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u47	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For-- 195, against-- 231, holding off on five. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was raised by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers Brudziński and Błaszczak worked on this bill for 2 years. The law should actually implement EU law in several days. Gentlemen, you have worked on this bill for so long that for Parliament it is only a few hours between the first and second readings of the law, which concerns the data of up to 36 million citizens per year. High Izbo! This is not the time to consider such a complex bill, especially since during the committee work we were filled with 163 amendments to the project, which has 79 articles. High Izbo! This is EU law, but we cannot support this project responsibly because, I think, no one in the High House knows exactly what these regulations will look like and how they will apply. This is your responsibility. You're giving it to me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You free the government and hand over 30 million citizens' data to the service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u49	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u50	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In view of today's votes, when we are talking about the cancellation of Marshal Kuchciński or Prime Minister Gliński, we are talking about the social pension, we are talking about helping people with disabilities, this vote may seem trivial. But Minister Rafalska herself raised the subject, speaking of the fact that we need a Sejm working in substance. It is impossible, as my previous speaker said, to work in substance 6 hours or 12 hours on a large, important legal act, which will bring together 36 million records referring not only to a name or a name. These are sensitive data. This debate takes time. You don't give that time, even though the bill has been known for almost two years. The Sejm doesn't work in substance, Minister, and it's not our fault. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u51	The question will be asked by Bartosz Jóźwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Bartosz Józwiak. It'll get better by then. On the other hand, as regards the draft law itself, ladies and gentlemen, we can understand the need for certain EU implementations. Since we have decided to say A, we must also bear the consequences, i.e. introduce those things which are imposed on us because of the functioning within the European Community. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not that the European Union imposes such important laws on us within two days. There are two such laws. This is one, and the other is about GDPR. These are two very important laws concerning personal data, personal data. We process them in two days. Don't ask us to sign off on something we can't analyse. There really was a huge amount of time for that. I understand that Minister Brudziński is currently catching up, but it's not our fault. As Members, we cannot bear the consequences and sign such laws. We cannot support this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we weren't able to rationally analyze it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u53	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2481, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 249, against - 5, holding 181. The Sejm passed a law on the processing of Passenger Name Record data. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 2485. The question will be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u54	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Three years ago, you promised Poles IDs and driver's licenses in cell phones. It's not working so far. Now you promise the drivers they won't have to carry registrations and OC policies with them, but it's fake. It's just a curtain for another CepiK disaster. You gave us the first one in November. Longer queues, longer car registration time and many drivers sent back from office. People are laughing that CEPiK has a 2.0 in it just because the registration time of the vehicle has doubled. The only reason you're running from this bill is because in June the central driver records were to be launched. This law shifts the time of introduction of these functionalities, only no one knows, you don't know when. So it's worth it. I want the Minister to tell everyone how many more years It's gonna take you two a while to get this system in place and running. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u55	Thank you. The question is asked by Maciej Masławski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have a problem at the Kukiz Club15, among others. with the aim of supporting such a project, because, as my previous speaker has already said, you are still unable to determine when the CEPiK system will be ready. If we had at least learned yesterday some schedule that the Deputy Minister said we would get it soon, and we would know at what time these 6 stages will be implemented, we could possibly support it, because we are aware of what the implementation of IT projects looks like. However, in a situation where we do not know when the CEPiK system will be ready - we have already accelerated it, delayed it, the deadline shifted by up to 2 years, 3 years, it is difficult to say - it would be difficult for us to support it. On the other hand, we see such things that it is still to be possible to keep documents, proof of insurance or driver's license with us this year. This is some kind of plush, if it's actually in the plan, it's gonna run this year. That's a little bit of a plus. That is why we are likely to abstain. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u57	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2485 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 255, against - 153, 26 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 15 hours 10 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws (prints No 2215 and 2292). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on a draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and some other laws, print No 2215, and the report of the committee is in print No 2292. At its 58th meeting on 6 February 2018, the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Commission, after considering this proposal at its meetings on 27 February and 11 April this year. She gave him a positive opinion. The bill under investigation concerns the implementation of a programme of comprehensive support for families, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers in December 2016. The draft law was subject to extensive public consultation using its active forms, among others. at workshops, conferences, working meetings with interested environments, families raising children with disabilities, carers or non-governmental organisations, as well as the project was evaluated by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Local Government. At the meetings of the Social Policy and Family Committee on 27 February and 11 April, a large number of representatives of the social side were attended: employers, employees, associations of disabled people, foundations, WTCs, ZAZs, foundations and institutes. The essence of the proposed solutions is the creation of support mechanisms for families in the form of, among others. services supporting rehabilitation by introducing club classes in occupational therapy workshops, entitlement for persons insured to welfare benefits in the case of a disabled child up to 18 years old, the possibility of using flexible forms of working time organisation, including teleworking, by carers with disabilities. The amendments also concern administrative proceedings under the Professional and Social Rehabilitation Act. Certain provisions have been clarified concerning the operation of workshops for occupational therapy, obligations and rights of employers employing disabled persons and the provisions relating to the appointment of the presidents and alternates of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities have been amended. The contested bill introduces changes to the regulation of data collected in the Electronic National Monitoring System for Disability Assessment and the reimbursement of expenses incurred by municipalities for coordination of guidance for pregnant women and their families. The draft law provides for the regulation of quotas free of deductions and executions other than those currently in force. The project includes changes in a number of laws: in the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, in the Act on Social Security, in the Labour Code, in the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, in the Act on Social Insurance in the case of sickness and maternity, in the Act on Social Pensions, in the Act on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families. It is proposed that the law should enter into force on the day following its publication, which is justified by the important interests of the State in view of its vital social importance. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. A number of amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Social Policy and Family Committee on 11 April when the bill was examined. Nine substantive amendments, several amendments by the Legislative Bureau were positively assessed. One minority request was also made in Article. Point 1 (6) (a) a draft law. The Commission, as I said at the outset, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u59	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u60	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, contained in print No 2215. The draft law is closely linked to the implementation of the second stage of the comprehensive support programme for families, whose main aim is to support people with disabilities and their families. The submission is important and expected by the environment of people with disabilities, and the essence of the proposed solutions is to create further support mechanisms for families with disabilities. The project has been subject to extensive arrangements and consultation. There have been many conferences, workshops and direct meetings with representatives of interested communities. The biggest changes contained in the project relate to the functioning of occupational therapy workshops, which will be able to support their former participants in maintaining independence and independence in social and professional life by conducting club activities. The main objective of such clubs is to increase the efficiency of introducing people with disabilities into the labour market and their effective integration into society. Club activities will become a form of support also after the workshop participants have taken up work and the disabled person will be able to continue the course regardless of the loss or change of employment. High Seym! It is well known that combining parental functions with professional work requires reconciling many responsibilities. This is particularly difficult when taking care of a child with a disability when it is also necessary to combine a parent's participation in the process of treatment, rehabilitation and education of the child with a job. The project submitted responds to the expectations of parents linking their work with child care with disabilities, extending their entitlement to care allowance in the case of a child's illness until they are 18 years old also after that time, if the disability or disability are of a lasting nature. The term of care allowance will also be extended from 14 to 30 days in the case of care for a child with a significant degree of disability or a disability decision indicating permanent or long-term care. Another important change proposed in the amendment of the Act is to allow parents of disabled children to use tailored forms of working time organisation, i.e. mobile working time, flexible working time and teleworking, depending on the employer's ability and needs. This is the answer to the public expectations raised. Thanks to this change, parents will be able to plan and share their working time and childcare time more effectively. The right to use flexible forms of working time organisation will also benefit parents who care for adults over 18 years of age. The project also provides for changes in data collection in the Electronic National Disability Assessment Monitoring System and extends its scope to data on health, education, social, occupational and family status, allowing for optimisation of the disability ruling process and transparency. The next amendment to the Act aims to include funds from the Labour Fund intended to coordinate guidance and support for pregnant women and their families into the income of the municipality. This will make it possible to employ or increase the employment of family assistants and will contribute to the care of as many families as possible. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This project introduces a number of further positive changes in the functioning of people with disabilities in social and occupational life. It is a continuation of actions undertaken systematically by the Government of Law and Justice to improve the difficult situation of people with disabilities, measures to provide support guaranteed by the State to their families in the programme of comprehensive support for families. The overarching objective of the proposed amendments is to create effective mechanisms for the next areas of support for this social group. This is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of adopting a draft amendment to the law. Mrs. Marshal! I would also like to make amendments on behalf of the club. I'm asking you to accept them and proceed with the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u61	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Piechota from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The ongoing protest in the Seym also gives a new dramatic context to this law. That is why I call once again for us to use our work on this law to find real solutions that effectively solve the problems of people with disabilities. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is critical of the progress of the project so far. We appreciate that there are positive things in this project - my previous speaker very much exposed them - and we do not question that these are the solutions needed. However, we also believe that many of the solutions contained in this project are cosmetic in nature. They give the impression that we are introducing a wide range of solutions that, if they weren't, no one would notice. Unfortunately, what is most painful for us is that this project does not solve the real problems that are expected to be solved for a long time and also introduces harmful solutions. These missing solutions First of all, the failure to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of October 2014. I would like to remind you, in view of the declarations of empathy and generosity repeated here, that it was the Members of the Law and Justice who demanded that the Court should consider the inequality of service to the carers of adults with disabilities to be contrary to the Constitution for carers of children with disabilities. And that's what happened. The Court recognised this in October 2014. To this day, this sentence is not being executed by those who have demanded it. That's what's missing most from this bill. Finally, there is also a lack of equalisation of the status of children with disabilities to a light degree with the status of other children with disabilities in the 500+ programme. There is also a lack of equalisation of the welfare allowance proposed by the PiS Members on several occasions. Finally, these things are very harmful. I would very much like to ask Minister Michalkiewicz to think about and refrain from these harmful solutions, first of all, from giving up the two-instance proceedings in cases concerning the support system for people with disabilities. It is, of course, extremely absurd that the appeal against the decision of the President of PFRON will be dealt with by the President of PFRON and the appeal against the decision of the voivode will be dealt with by the voivode. In our view, it is absolutely paradoxical and absurd to say that it will make it easier for the interested parties to investigate their rights. This was clearly mentioned by representatives of NGOs, representatives of employers at the committee meeting. Let us hear this voice and depart from this evil solution. The wrong solutions also apply to occupational activities. I hope that, after the discussion that took place in the committee, no one else will speak disrespectfully of the ZAZs because we heard at the committee meeting that this is just one of the many elements of the support system. But how poor would this support system be if it weren't for professional activity. So let us not put in place a solution that will result in a drastic deterioration of the competitiveness of occupational activities in the market by means of a new way of clearing the benefits granted by the employer of disabled persons to other entities in payments to PFRON. Those who grant these benefits, multimillion-dollar, will not be affected to the slightest extent, and professional establishments will feel it very painfully, because they very often account for up to 100% from one invoice. its relief, with the average amount of reductions granted by ZAZs per year of around 150 thousand. zł. And those who give multimillion-dollar reliefs are not affected at all. Similarly, let us grant ZAZ's right to subjective grants created by local governments, which will make it insanely easier to operate. The government wants to do this, the state budget will not cost anything, and this will radically simplify the functioning of the ZAZs. Similarly, let us react to the behaviour of the tax administration, which is now beginning to accuse ZAZs of inappropriate contributions to the employment fund. Let us make this easy for them, let us make it clear in the Act when there is a deadline to transfer these funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there are many concrete solutions that we ask for. Let's fix this project. It's not too late. We make 12 amendments, which we ask for favorable consideration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u63	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka now has the floor to pursue from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I agree with my previous speaker on the fact that the process of this law has taken on a slightly different context, but due to respect and how much work they have put into this bill and the time they have devoted to consulting other NGOs, organisations that deal with disabled people, ZAZs, WTCs, I think we should proceed with it. This law has begun to look decent, I will say yes, and it is really worth leaning over its records, although it is a law that improves a number of laws, but does not improve any more, as Mr Piechota said. I just think it's still partial and detailed solutions that don't touch the point that the Minister was talking about, which is about repairing this system, which is lame in every respect. The position of the Kukiz club15, which I am presenting with regard to this contested law, print no. 2215, is of course the position that the club will vote in favour of this law, because there are a number of solutions that draw closer, for example. the possibility of professional activation of persons who are in occupational therapy workshops. The solutions introduced regarding welfare allowance or teleworking are positive. These are solutions that will help people who take care of people with disabilities, in such a flexible approach to their employment, to a small extent, but still. It should also be pointed out as positive that workshops for occupational therapy will have the opportunity to start club activities. Such activities, where you will be able to return and will be able to partially activate professionally in these clubs. The bill does not contain details of the rules under which the occupational therapy workshops will receive money for this. I assume there won't be any competitions here, and only a few of them will get the money, but all those clubs that want to run will get the money. During the procedure of this law, Kukiz15 also submitted amendments that repaired some of the provisions on occupational therapy workshops, and those that brought closer to this goal, so that really professional activation in occupational therapy workshops would have such a practical dimension. On the road to professional activation of people with disabilities very often the barrier is simply fear and fear that something will fail in the labour market and there will really be no place to go back, because the workshop of occupational therapy will not create a place for these people and will not ensure that this return to workshops of occupational therapy will be. Therefore, people with disabilities do not take up this activity. The possibility of creating traineeships, traineeships outside the occupational therapy workshop within up to 3 months and the possibility of return would be guaranteed at the time when Kukiz15 would have been accepted concerning the fact that the establishment has a duty to take back a disabled person as its participant within 3 months if this proverbial leg had fallen into the labour market and had it not been possible. So we're hoping that this will not be an apparent assurance, which is written at the moment, because the assurance that a disabled person can return to the waiting list is not a guarantee, and it's really going to be a fiction. It will not fully fulfil its task either, which concerns the possibility of co-financing workshops of occupational therapy by the fact that they themselves will gain funds, because they are actually risking, and this confirmed the Polish County Association that the counties will simply automatically reduce their subsidies if they themselves acquire any funds, so it is no incentive for them to try and obtain these funds. In the course of this work, I also make an amendment. This is an amendment agreed with the social side at the last committee meeting. The amendment concerns the possibility of real evaluation of the effects of occupational rehabilitation in the occupational therapy workshop, the assessment of these effects and the extension of the assessment time after such a real time, i.e. after we first assess in the individual rehabilitation programme at which stage the participant is at work and social development, and then within 6 months we will only assess whether there has been any progress at all. So this is an amendment, in my opinion, technical and dictated by the fact that all professionals who are involved in such professional rehabilitation are applying for this amendment. I also have this point in terms of professional activities. Mr Piechota had a lot of comments here. I agree with them, I won't be able to replace them anymore, but I encourage you to do so, because occupational activities are a very important link in professional rehabilitation and there are a lot of rigid rules that prevent real activation and that these people draw closer to the open [[♪ The bell ♪]] the labour market. So this is the whole line of work that I encourage you to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u65	Thank you. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska from the Modern Club now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a law on rehabilitation, which we have been debating for a long time in a rather turbulent atmosphere together with the environments of people with disabilities, associations, foundations, people who have been dealing with these things and activities of people with disabilities for years. We are here dealing with the implementation of the second stage of the programme. I wonder how many stages this program will still have, because it was announced quite a long time ago, many months ago, and still many of the records are just empty records that exist only on the card. I'm afraid that those records that go slowly into the various laws will also for some time be simply the records of the dead. Therefore, my huge request at this stage for as soon as possible verification and control, whether what we determine and what we implement are actually being implemented, whether there are measures to implement it, how the individual records work and how it is used by the persons to whom it is directed. The bill raises many different doubts. We have talked about this many times, and we have tabled numerous amendments, which, unfortunately, have been rejected in most cases. Art. 22, changes in reliefs, which also do not solve the biggest problem of bureaucracy and even gently deepen it, changes in administrative proceedings, huge risks for entrepreneurs and people with disabilities doing business. There are many doubts about, for example, the professional activities mentioned here, workshops of occupational therapy, clubs that are assigned to these workshops of occupational therapy. ♪ 'Cause on the one hand ♪ These are the things that are expected, and these are things that the environment has repeatedly called for, but there are still no clear and concrete records on how this is going to work, who is going to finance it. There's a big risk that this money will be there for a while to create it, to show that the bill is working, and then it'll just end, because if it starts to run out of money, for example. employment, they will first go to work, and some of the things that are added to the responsibilities when it comes to the activities of these workshops will simply be eliminated. This can also happen with the club activities mentioned here. What Mr Piechota mentioned: equalisation in the 500+ programme of children with disabilities to a light degree at the age of 16 and 18 with other children with disabilities. Why has this not been taken into account so far? Two-instantness - the matter is completely incomprehensible, as is the issue of competitions for presidents. Environmental self-help homes for adults with autism, combined and intellectual disability. This voice may be a narrow environment of people with disabilities. As I bring up this subject, I still hear that the SDS are, the seats are, there is no problem. Only that among people with disabilities, even those with a significant degree of disability, are those who are simply pushed out of the system because no one wants them. These are very difficult people, when it comes to care, cooperation, people who become increasingly aggressive as they age, are a nuisance and a threat to their carers. For them, you need special therapy, one in one, you need not only emergency care, but also rehabilitation, which will not cause them to retreat. That's not there. There have been petitions, for example to the petition committee, to introduce environmental self-help homes such as D and E. These would be small environmental homes that would deal with such cases. That's still not there. We have a problem with the entire bill at all, because it's been in force for many years, and right now it's just a garbage can. There are several pages of the repealed articles, there are old rules that do not fully relate to what is currently in force, are slowly amended. Therefore, those who use this law are very often unaware of the extent to which it is in force at the moment and what is actually working from it, what does not work, what can be intertwined with each other. We could also use a change in vocabulary. Rehabilitation. What does "rehabilitation" mean? Here's an example of the medical rehabilitation bill. What about professional rehabilitation? What about social rehabilitation? Perhaps it is worth changing this name, changing it to social inclusion, to professional activation. Then there would be no doubt about what it refers to. The question of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Sub-Committee on Disabled Persons works all the time. This issue has not yet been resolved. The modern amendment is also tabled today. We don't want to duplicate all the amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will accept the amendments made by other clubs. We are making an amendment on 12 times the social pension and rehabilitation allowance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u67	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u68	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws, prints No 2215 and 2292. Ladies and gentlemen! The key question today, to which the government should first of all have an answer, is: How can the carers of the disabled help? I understand that the answer is to be the "For Life" programme, specifically, its second stage. The cost of rehabilitation for people with disabilities is enormous. I understand that the government's proposal is an amendment to the PIT Act. It is intended to allow people with disabilities to benefit from rehabilitation relief. It's a good thing, except the applicants forgot that this relief was working because it was established by the previous coalition. Parents of children with a disability are entitled to a tax rehabilitation allowance, i.e. to settle with a fiscus, they can deduct rehabilitation expenses from their income. Some of these expenses have no limits. So, ladies and gentlemen, by being precise, I will say that this is about extending the existing relief. Of course, this will not solve all the problems of people with disabilities and their carers, but it is a step in the right direction. However, there is a much more important thing about which - I have the impression - the rulers forget. Projects should be consulted with stakeholders, here the carers and the disabled themselves. Are they? Not exactly, since there are a lot of skeptical voices about government proposals. Listening to the voice of carers of people with disabilities, it is worth noting that there is a great need to introduce an assistant to a disabled person, someone who, for a moment during the day, will relieve the burden on the parent. Another extremely necessary change would be to guarantee the transport of disabled people who are 25 years old. Until then, they can use it. As to the relief, I would say that disabled carers would also like to see that income obtained once, for example, is not included in the statutory amount. compensation for accident, special benefit, etc. Today, too, they automatically deprive the caretaker of the possibility of deduction, although they do not compensate for rehabilitation expenses. The most expected solution would be to abolish the income limit. It shows how much more to do. Ladies and gentlemen! Polish People's Party is ready for such talks, while stressing that they should be combined with real consultations involving the environment of carers and people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the gallery is attended by a group of young people from the Koszalin Children's Society, together with carers, who are in the Seym at the invitation of Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now I ask that Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan speak from the Free and Solidarnia Posel Wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and some other laws following the work on this project in committee. The fact that the project is extremely needed and expected does not need to convince anyone. Thanks for the project, which I join, have already been expressed on numerous occasions by interested parties, among others. at a committee meeting. I have no doubt that the changes that have been made are going in the right direction. I am pleased that, despite extensive and in-depth prior consultations, the Ministry also took into account a number of important requests during parliamentary work, such as the deletion of a point that would prevent the management of the occupational therapy workshop from being combined with its work, a point which, as the interested parties have justified, instead of being a convenience and a protection tool for the participants of the workshops, would only be a difficulty in their implementation and conduct. The project, which we are looking at, contains many very important changes, including supporting former participants in the workshops of occupational therapy in maintaining self-reliance, which are intended for new club activities. When expressing my position for the first time, I said that the number of hours of these classes is too small in my opinion and that it should be increased at least twice that this form of assistance, which can become an opportunity for many people to benefit from it, has much greater potential than the regulations contained in this amendment. However, I understand the ministry's position on this issue. I understand that the solutions proposed are taking advantage of today's possibilities. However, I look forward to the result of the announced further work and further legislation, which still fills a large gap in this area. The discussion of this project, in which there was no lack of emotion, was extremely insightful. However, I am pleased that many extremely difficult issues have reached an agreement. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u71	Thank you, Member. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Magdalena Kochan a question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: the bill we're investigating today is a code of rights for people with disabilities. When the government project entered the Sejm, the protest was not yet ongoing, but began during the process of the bill. Why, then, instead of focusing on the amendments made during the work on this bill, which goes against those who are on strike in the Sejm, do you propose new solutions which, by the way, do not fully implement these demands? Minister! Now, here's the question. Not: whether or not: when. When will you execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which equals the amount of benefits received by persons who care for disabled children and adults with disabilities? Not: whether or not: when. When you meet your demands [[♪ The bell ♪]] increase the welfare allowance and care allowance in order to at least equalise these benefits? And if you really wanted to help this environment, you would have... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u73	Thank you, Member. I ask you to ask Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! It is really very difficult in a minute to fit this question and sometimes the kindness to finish a sentence would not be too much of a courtesy to the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u75	Madame, I have extended your opportunity to ask a question, really. You're welcome, sir. She will have her time soon, Mrs Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u76	High Seym! Minister! A key element of the protest and the protesters' statements is the introduction of rehabilitation. Could this not be done in the way we propose in the amendment - by raising the amount of care allowance to 500 PLN? You have also asked for eight years of our governments to raise this allowance in order to at least equal it to the care allowance paid in the pension scheme. Therefore, is it possible, even in stages, to increase the care allowance to the amount of PLN 500 and to align with it the care allowance paid in the pension scheme and to cover both benefits with the same valorization mechanism, so that in the future there will never be such a gross difference between them again? And the other thing. Minister, we do not usurp the exclusive right to make amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These may also be amendments to you, and may be amendments from Members of Law and Justice. We will support them as an upbuilding new system, especially in those elements where they cost nothing. Therefore, I would ask them to consider patiently that this project should come out in the form of a really good service to people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u77	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Really, the Sejm mute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u78	I solidify with the speeches made by Mrs Kochan and Mr Piechota. Minister! What have you done with PLN 657 million left by the government of PO-PSL to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? Second line. We proposed PLN 200 million in the 2018 budget for solving and supporting the situation of people with disabilities. You crossed it out. Legitimate. We're talking about... You like to talk about constitutions. This constitution would be a constitution for people with disabilities. Why are you trying to implement the demands of the strikers today, rather than in this law? You can afford 600 million for local elections cameras, you can afford 1 billion PLN of supplement or aid for television, and you cannot afford to execute and support the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] protestors. You have stone hearts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u79	I would like to ask Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Today, in this Chamber, Minister Rafalska said that she had a problem adjusting her right to the judgment of 21 October 2014. Meanwhile, we left the solution ready. I will no longer talk about money, because this was often mentioned today, but I would like you to tell the Minister to take a look at the Government Legislative Center. It was there that on 16 March 2015 we published a draft law amending the Law on Family Benefits and some other laws. So perhaps it would be good to refer to this draft law, which was prepared just in response to the question of the implementation of this judgment on care benefits, namely real, specific assistance for carers of disabled persons, also or above all adults. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u81	Thank you. That concludes a series of questions. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your discussion, for your questions, for your interest in the subject of people with disabilities. There is always an important time - for me, but also for you and for the disabled - to talk about the problems of people with disabilities. I will start by asking questions in your speeches, because they later became concrete in the questions. As far as Mr Piechota is concerned, the proposals made by the Member - and from the club speech, and later from the questions - go beyond the content and scope of this law. You know very well that this law does not deal with the Constitutional Tribunal, nor with care benefits, nor with other matters such as the status of children as regards 500+. These are certainly important matters and certainly worthy of interest, whereas this is not the content of this law, and as you know, legislation requires that we stick to the original scope of the law. You mentioned a nursing allowance. We've talked a little bit about him. We also believe that the fact that since 2006 the care allowance has not been verified is a huge negligence or omission, and that it is also a matter that needs to be regulated in the future. On the other hand, I would like to remind you once again, Mr President, that there is another date for verification of the care allowance in November. I promise you, Mr... We are working very hard right now to figure out what it should be like to increase this benefit, what its future should look like when it comes to people with disabilities and its relation to the care allowance. With regard to the appeal against the President's decision, we can discuss this, while the Government of Law and Justice wants, where possible, to move away from bureaucracy. I will repeat once again: the party to proceedings in the event of first instance adoption of a decision by the President of the Management Board of PFRON will have the opportunity to lodge a complaint against that decision directly to the voivodship administrative court, which will significantly shorten the administrative procedure. Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz also mentioned this. I am surprised that you do not believe in the impartiality and effectiveness of the trial. I believe that the fact that we can appeal to the court against the decision of the PFRON Board is a guarantee that the cases will be dealt with properly, but also that the administrative procedure will not hinder the functioning of employers with disabilities. Mrs Wróblewska has talked a lot about the programme "For Life." Of course the program isn't a bill, so we need laws to implement it. On the other hand, we monitor the effects and I will give just a little bit of examples for 2017, I wanted to share this with you. 19,5,000. provided benefits in relation to coordinated care of pregnant women with particular regard to complicated pregnancy, 169 500,000. zł. 60 million spent last year on the financing of the employment of family assistants in municipalities. We created 220 places for pregnant schoolgirls, spent over 1 million. As far as the issue is concerned, almost 4 million have been spent on creating places in nursery facilities for children with disabilities. As far as coordination centres are concerned, more than PLN 0.5 million have been spent. As far as coordination and rehabilitation and care centres are concerned, almost PLN 10 million was spent, 255 agreements were concluded with local authorities and almost PLN 3 000 covered the programme. children. 16.5 million were spent on a one-off benefit for the birth of a disabled child. As far as environmental self-help homes are concerned, nearly 35 million have been spent on creating new environmental homes and creating new places. So that in terms of the place for the audience mentioned by Mrs Wróblewska, an additional 10 million, almost 10 million, 9300 thousand. zł, increased subsidies due to space for autists. 337 places were created in sheltered apartments and more than PLN 10 million were spent. I will remind you that the first law implementing the programme entered into force in the middle of the year, so the data I am talking about covers less than half a year, it is about months, and at the same time because the programmes were mainly implemented by local governments, it obviously also required effort from local governments. On the other hand, this program has started, the first results are. I hope there will be more of this year's results. One of the Members, I think Mrs Wróblewska, spoke about autistics in environmental self-help homes. Madam President, it is the Social Assistance Act that talks about environmental self-help homes, but we are trying to finance these places for autists and we are also thinking about how to ensure that this care is as good as possible in the future. When it comes to rehabilitation, the terms social, professional or medical rehabilitation are known. It is also known from research into people with disabilities that medical and rehabilitation needs are at the forefront of those needs that are mentioned as the most important, and also of course what we are talking about all the time: various disabilities require different rehabilitation. Disabled people put medical rehabilitation first, people with intellectual disabilities talk about social rehabilitation and rehabilitation tours, people with mental disorders talk about access to specialists, psychiatrists and access to medicines. And in this bill during the voting process, this availability has been increased, but this is not this law again, this is not the subject we should be discussing here. Mr Jarubas. Of course, we're signing with two hands. This law has been examined for so long because it is still being consulted, it is being consulted and working in committee with the environment of people with disabilities. You know best how many of the things that were in the bill were removed from this law only because people with disabilities did not agree to their application. And here we are open to it all the time. However, with the fact that there is much to do, I agree, and that is why I am afraid that we have been working on this bill for a very, very long time. They're waiting in line for the next one we're preparing, and we're reporting to the government's work programme because we think there's actually a lot to be done. On the other hand, people with disabilities believe - and so do I - that support for people with disabilities should be evolutionary rather than revolutionary. Disabled people have greater problems adapting to new solutions and do not deserve revolutionary changes. On the contrary, let us introduce those changes that are expected, but so that the environment of people with disabilities can accept them and adapt to them. The speech by Mrs Skowronska was interesting. I do not hide that this is again a subject that goes beyond the scope of our law, but once again: PLN 657 million, there are documents in the Ministry, Minister Szczurek refused Minister Kosiniak because there has not yet been a passed law, and as you know, the fact that the project is in the Sejm, and not before the end of the term of office has been passed, causes this project to end in a basket. You know that as a longtime Member. [[No, it's not, it's the budget, it's not, Minister.]] I'm not talking about the budget, I'm talking about the project we were talking about. [[And the project, too.]] On the other hand, as regards the budget, there was no 657 million saved for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal because there was no such law. This bill has not been passed. Second thing. There was money for family benefits for the implementation and implementation of two other laws that you prepared and carried out by the Sejm. First law: gold for gold and second law: maternity benefits for people who have never worked, for moms who haven't worked. Minister Kosiniak is proud of both of these laws. If you do not remember, I will say again: they were passed by you, but they entered into force on 1 January 2016 and if there was more money in the budget as regards family benefits, because that is what we are talking about all the time, they have been used for these two laws. On the other hand, if you wish, we can provide you with documents that Minister Szczurek did not agree to increase the budget in the draft budget when it comes to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, and I am surprised that you, an experienced member of the bureau of the finance committee, pretends that you do not understand this, Mrs. As regards the other questions, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Zwierzan for seeing that this draft law was widely consulted, that we were open to taking into account the opinion of the environment of people with disabilities, that it was also widely discussed during the work of the committee, also during the readings in the plenary room. And for that, I would like to thank you. Those questions I was able to write down, I tried to answer. If my colleagues have any further questions, we will, of course, answer them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u83	Thank you. As part of the corrigendum, I would like to ask Mr Sławomir Piechota to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in such a brief speech, it is difficult to take into account the whole context of the matter and hence, I think, is also the misunderstanding of my speech. Minister, there is no doubt that some of our proposals go beyond the scope of the proposal, but nothing prevents us from taking them into account. Who would want to sue them if we all agreed that they were needed by people, that people demanded it? It would also be an option with a proposal to resolve the ongoing protest in the Seym. So let us not be afraid of it, and let us not curse it in connection with such a formal limitation. And the second point is the things that are clearly wrong with this bill, and this bi-instantity. Minister, you should be the first to be interested in making decisions concerning persons with disabilities in the system under your control. Getting rid of this control is incomprehensible to us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Representatives and NGOs and employers protested on this issue. We know what things have happened in PFRON in the last two years. You should be interested in making sure that things like this never happen again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u85	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u86	I ask you to include this, for example, in your work in the Senate, where you have a very strong partner, a former representative of the government for people with disabilities, who understands these problems and would undoubtedly want to support you in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u87	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you to take the floor in correcting Ms Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u88	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I wish I could disagree with you. I'm sorry. It was written in the reserve, and you can't interpret freely, as you think in this case, it was for this kind of solution. That's one thing. And you didn't answer my question about erasing or voting. negative in this case - whether looking in the budget and saving 200 million PLN for 2018. This applies to support for people with disabilities. And thank you very much for your compliments on your work in the finance committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u89	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on the promotion of new investments (prints Nos 2307 and 2483). I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on supporting new investments, prints no. 2307 and 2483. This draft law was designed to adapt to the needs of instruments in the form of tax reliefs for entrepreneurs planning new investments across the country and not, so far, in special economic zones. The new regulation is the result of government work to adapt tools in the form of incentives to invest for entrepreneurs in the new economic reality, against the completely new challenges that we are currently facing. The instrument in the form of tax exemptions will now be available for new investments, which include the creation of a new production plant and reinvestments, while the conditions for obtaining public aid will depend on the rate of unemployment in the district and adapted to the size of the entrepreneur. This will apply to investments that meet the quantitative criteria for investment expenditure and to qualitative criteria in accordance with the strategy for responsible development. The draft law in accordance with the decision of the High Sejm was sent to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development after first reading on 20 March. During the meeting in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on 11 April this year. an extraordinary subcommittee was set up, which I had the honour of chairing. High Izbo! Members, representatives of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, representatives of business associations and associations and the social side were present at the extraordinary subcommittee meeting. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the report of the subcommittee in a good atmosphere once again. As a result of this meeting on 12 April this year. The subcommittee presented a report which took account of several amendments tabled by members of the Law and Justice Club. This meeting also adopted proposals for legislative and editorial amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm. In turn, during the examination of the report in committee at its meeting on 8 May, an additional system amendment concerning the rules for the clearance of public aid was adopted in the sub-committee report. These changes meet the expectations of entrepreneurs, as well as the committee members who presented their need during the subcommittee. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 11 April, 7 and 8 May 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt the proposed draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u91	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u92	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the report on the government draft law on the promotion of new investments. The project under investigation introduces solutions that aim to implement new mechanisms to support entrepreneurs in making investments across the country. It includes a number of mechanisms of tax preferences, special reliefs, which are designed to develop a favourable investment environment. This support will complement the existing solutions of the Special Economic Zones Act. The new regulations are an important instrument in the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. One of the elements of this strategy is to build tools that will really stimulate economic development and at the same time remove barriers to entrepreneurs. Our priority is to stimulate the growth of private investment, particularly in the areas of innovation development, technology development and exports, and to create stable jobs. The Law on the Promotion of New Investments is an update of the solutions used in special economic zones, the primary task of which was to stimulate economic growth in a specific territory of the country, e.g. through locally applied tax reliefs and exemptions. This formula is already gradually exhausted. New solutions respond to dynamically changing needs of entrepreneurs and investors, reducing investment time. At the same time, it should be stressed that we do not abandon special economic zones which will continue to operate in accordance with the rules until 2026. The coexistence of two laws will create a new system of investment incentives. The new solutions contained in the bill will include investments in the form of new production facilities and reinvestments, in line with the strategy for responsible development. The government project also envisages a complete departure from territorial restrictions on the possibility of receiving support in the form of tax preferences. The provisions of the draft law on the promotion of new investments implement a coherent investment infrastructure system and provide for legal solutions to improve the whole process, e.g. the possibility for the National Centre for Agricultural Assistance to transfer property intended for industrial and service purposes. We're going with the spirit of time. Law and Justice will support the processed project. I would like to add that as a former entrepreneur, I see huge potential in the proposed solutions. This is a very good direction, especially when all these possibilities and tools will aim to favour our Polish small and medium-sized enterprises. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare one amendment to the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u93	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Mirosława Nykiel from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present a statement on the Act on Support for New Investments. Let me start by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be understandable and obvious that since economic reality is constantly changing, we often adapt the rules to this changing reality. The Special Economic Zones Act, which has been operating since 1994, has produced the expected results. I will give here only two examples: 112 billion zlotys of accumulated capital, over 320 thousand. jobs or various innovative and educational solutions. The governing state has previously amended the Act on Special Economic Zones, making Poland as a whole one economic zone. The justification was, let's say, the fact that barriers within the functioning of individual company managers did not work properly, because procedures often lasted for a very long time and entrepreneurs waited. And that's understandable to us. On the other hand, with regard to the objectives set out there, the fact that you want to strengthen the eastern wall and other regions in Poland in terms of investment and economic terms, let's say that we show good will here, a desire to understand: you are trying to change reality. On the other hand, the way in which this law is being processed is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen! Your rapporteur spoke beautifully here and thanked us, and we thanked you, but we called the subcommittee almost forcefully. And as we have called it, it turns out that there are really a number of important issues to be agreed upon. You can't change the rules like that. And this is mine and the club's main objection: it was happening too fast. You've given seven days to consult. It is unacceptable that a regulation which did not appear on the website should be reviewed when there is a second reading. This is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, as a club, we have reservations. The first serious reservation concerns Chapter 2, namely the entry into the competence of voivodship authorities. This is unacceptable. Mrs Janyska will talk about this, so I will not develop this issue. As far as the support you provide for small and medium-sized enterprises is concerned, I think you speak a lot, but when you look at the implementing regulations, there is unfortunately little there. You have introduced - which also raises serious concerns - the concept of fossils. That's what I'm gonna ask you. That's where I'm gonna develop this problem. On the other hand, the Civic Platform has prepared amendments and we are making the way of voting conditional on taking these amendments into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u95	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Maria Margaret Janyska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u96	High Izbo! This project would have the chance to be effective, good and objective, if the management of the area, i.e. managers of the entire regional development, were, so far, marshals of voivodships, the management boards of voivodships. Unfortunately, this law, despite the noisy slogan: The whole Poland with one economic zone, will not meet the expectations that entrepreneurs place in it, because they are not yet aware that although they will meet the quantitative and qualitative criteria, the governor of the state, often from the other end of Poland, will decide in fact and indicate where this investment will be implemented, without regard to regional development and the competences of the marshals. This is getting into the marshals' powers, restricting the role of self-government, centralizing economic turnover. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is that in Wielkopolska, where I come from, where I live, investments, support for new investments, i.e. tax reliefs, people from the Kostrzyn-Słubice, Łódź, pole, Wałbrzyskie zone will be steering. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a way of thinking about regional development. And it is said that the areas that you have identified in the regulation were intended to be economically and territorially consistent and to be well managed through coherence. This consistency is absolutely not preserved. Well organized voivodships, which manage regional development, are being destroyed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will submit a completely separate project, because this organizational law cannot be altered. I've tried to make adjustments, but we need to come up with a comprehensive regulation, and we're gonna make such a good, comprehensive regulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u97	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We had a problem with this law because it is really going in the right direction, and I will not hide that the Modern Club will always stand in the position that all actions aimed at improving the functioning of Polish companies and improving competitiveness towards foreign entities are worthy of support and we will support them. We assume that this bill will meet expectations. As for proceding, I will not hide that, like the Members of the Civic Platform, we have reservations, because it was indeed possible to do so sooner and better. If we had more time to bend over to this bill, maybe we could find a few more points. We have already highlighted some and this has been reflected in your actions. Perhaps in a few more places this bill could be improved. As regards the assumption that this law is intended to give more opportunities for access to tax relief for new investments, but also for those entities that increase their industrial potential, they are opening up new plants, and in particular those that are putting the emphasis on innovation, I will not hide that this is a good direction. Finally, Poland should become a country that will not compete with foreign companies only because of lower production costs, but also because of efficiency, innovation and competitiveness. Therefore, we share the comments of the ladies who mentioned that the law is a law. It is known that these records are not different, but a lot will depend on how people who are going to do this will do it. The point is that we can expect that someone who will manage the zone will feel that without cooperation with local governments - especially with the regional government - it is impossible to carry out economic development wisely, and will allow for participation in councils that are foreseen in these zones, more representatives of the local government, better chosen, who really know what they are talking about, and will bring something useful. But there may be an official who will say that what the government is going to mess with, he knows best, and will therefore decide that he will take people who are not competent, who have no experience, just because they will, let's say, be connected in some sense with the local government. Therefore, I would like to point out that this will depend largely on who you put on, which management companies will be allowed to manage these zones. As to whether this law is largely directed towards larger companies, the explanatory memorandum states that it will also provide significant aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, but it does not follow directly from the provisions of this law. You say that this regulation, which may not be perfect, and those parameters that small and medium-sized enterprises need to demonstrate, can be changed. I am counting on the fact that, indeed, the comments that were made during work in committee or subcommittees will be taken into account, because of course it is much easier to change the regulation than the entire law. I will appeal very strongly to the Minister to take into account the comments which have been made by the Polish Craft Union, and these were not isolated votes. We will depend to a large extent on developing companies in the context of innovation, competitiveness, but let us not forget that critical voices in relation to special economic zones appeared among entrepreneurs who did not have a chance to introduce some unlikely innovation in the short term or to increase employment very quickly. They felt a little hurt, because if it turns out that the Western company, the Western concern gets a good morning very good conditions to invest, and they just need to invest with their money, they actually have administrative problems and they have to jump through various logs along the way, then I urge you to lean on the regulation in particular to analyse and see which elements of this regulation can be improved so that the availability of tax breaks is as broad as possible. The Modern Club will give credit to trust and vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u99	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u100	Your marshal, Kasprzak, Mieczysław Kasprzak. But such mistakes...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u101	Excuse me, sir. Mieczysław Kasprzak. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u102	Mistakes happen, but I forgive you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, the law in its very name: about supporting the development of entrepreneurship, the new investment has a rather positive, emotionally positive pronunciation. However, we need to think about what will change, what the effects will be in the future. Because we hear all the time about equalizing development, sustainable development. I remember very well the meeting in Przemyśl when Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki arrived and said: at last we will end here with this crap, Przemyśl, the region will develop. That was two and a half years ago. On the way, I listened to it on the radio. I was glad something was going to happen in my region. But what happened until today? Nothing happened - as it was, it did. The economic zone that is still functioning there, as far as I know, does not have any new investor, but it is observed that - very often, even in today's press reports, there is information - the region is rolling up, the thought is rolling up, other cities are rolling up, there are no new workplaces arriving, there are no investments. So talking about how we care about the east wall... We should care because the conditions for investment are much more difficult there, there are very difficult conditions, because every owner is counting resources, waiting for some economic, economic success, and by the way it can affect the development of the region. Such general support, I think... I hope I am wrong, because I want the region of Eastern Poland to develop, so that Podkarpacie begins to develop. Of course, there are cities where economic zones function - there it is visible - such as Mielec, Tarnobrzeg or even Rzeszów itself, while more east and more south nothing is happening, really nothing is happening. I am afraid that - because we here apart from saying that Poland will be one big economic zone and it works on imagination, because everyone wonders how it will be, what it will be - conditions remain the same. There may be some minimal changes, but these are the details that I think will not affect what is happening in these regions waiting for a lot of support at the moment, and what we expect and what people would like: that this economic recovery should not be said that Eastern Poland is supposed to be only agrotourism or agriculture, but that people stay there because cities are depopulation and it is depopulation, as you can see from year to year in statistics. The Polish People's Party will support economic zones, as we have so far supported, because it was a good solution for those times. Many cities, many regions gave such a boost and attracted many investments. On the other hand, I keep saying it's not enough. Many times here, from this stand I have said that this is not enough when it comes to the difficult conditions of investment, which exist for various reasons - one could talk about this for a long time - in Eastern Poland. You'd have to think about better support. Because we say there's more unemployment. At the moment, unemployment is already lower, but unemployment itself, more support, more time - all this will not be the case if companies are suddenly to start investing in these regions. We will support these solutions, although we believe that they are insufficient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u103	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Cyranski, a non-associated Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft act on supporting new investments, contained in print No 2483, is a chance for progress in Poland's economic development. This is a very important and necessary law that will significantly affect the geometry of the functioning of special economic zones. The regulations introduced in this law can improve Poland's competitive position as a host country of investors. During the committee's work, a number of changes were made, most of which were clarification amendments. However, there were also some that had a significant impact on the shape of the proposed solutions. I'll give you a few of them. Art. 2 point 6 - the amendment concerns quantitative criteria and, more specifically, minimum investment costs depending on the level of unemployment. Where the investment is located in more than one district, the level of unemployment shall be determined on the basis of that district where most of the land is located. Art. 10 the calculation of the services referred to in paragraph 10 is extended. 1 which is provided by the manager of the business area. These are training, support and intermediary services with business environment actors: promotional, advisory and other directly related to the implementation of support decisions. Unfortunately, I regret to say that another mandatory signing of contracts for the above mentioned activities is not a good solution for entrepreneurs. At this point, it would be much better to sign such agreements, not to impose it from the top. Let us give investors more freedom to decide how they want to advertise, train or use what advice they need to use. Significant positive changes are also those introduced in Article. 13, Art. 18, Art. 35, Art. 37, Art. 38 and Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 44, which aim to clarify the situation of entrepreneurs who have more than one decision to grant public aid - e.g. the obligation to allocate revenue to individual authorisations or to keep separate records for each authorisation is waived. Despite the immense amount of work put into this bill, there are still areas that need attention. First of all, concerns from local governments need to be mentioned here. In this form, this law significantly interferes with their autonomy. The mechanisms of local investor support developed over the years may be worsened. The project involves some kind of centralisation, entering the area of competence of local authorities. This is the main element of the bill, which requires immediate change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the question? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. I am the first to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska for a question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I come from Mielec, where experience in special economic zones is extremely well known. We were the forerunner for the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act as a tool for combating unemployment and raising capital. We were also in the second step - for the operation of special economic zones by 2026. But I'd like to ask you two questions. Firstly, to amend the rules that are already in force, among others. to account for entities that have more than one permit to operate in the zone, more than one concession. And it should be... Here I am pleased to say about this amendment - because this is the problem I have reported - that this has been solved. But there is one threat in this bill. If we can locate entities across the country that will have tax reliefs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you not think that the country's attractiveness of western areas will continue to be greater than that of Eastern Poland? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u107	I would like to ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform. And let me remind you, time is one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u108	Thank you very much, Marshal. I want to ask you a question about fossils, because there is a provision in the law that it is not possible to issue a decision to support the location of investments in the areas of fossil deposits, except for investments in these deposits. You made an autocorrection and added that undeveloped fossils. But in my mind, not just me, it doesn't solve the problem, because the definition of fossils is very broad. It is not known in what way, at which stage of the decision on support and who is to conclude that there are fossils in a given location, even if they are undeveloped. This doubt may have to be resolved at the stage of the examination of the request for support. It is still necessary to consult experts. This will prolong the process of making investment decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u109	Thank you. I ask you to ask Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u110	High Izbo! Minister, I have a question I asked yesterday on the committee, but because I didn't get any specific information, I'm going to repeat it, because maybe to this day you've already looked into what you've included in your bill and how to explain it. The area manager is to have competence, among others. to develop tools for the development of an innovative economy. And that's what I want to ask you. What did you mean by that? Second question: Why do you leave out the whole law, clearly ignore local governments? There is no obligation to consult and cooperate with local governments or local governments. And it is worth knowing that voivodship local governments have very good experience in innovation and innovative tools for economic development, for example, because they have been authors and realizers of regional operational programmes for years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u111	Now the question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the next law, which is back to the Polish People's Republic. For example, the Tczech economic zone works well, it is also connected with education. You want to destroy it. You say there will be more access to relief, but it will only apply to those reliefs that will be for theirs, because that will be decided by the minister. It is a raid of local governments, which participates in most economic zones, with the possibilities of influence and possibilities of action. You're welcome. I wanted to ask if you consulted all the local authorities and what were the opinions of local authorities in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u113	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question that I already mentioned in my speech on behalf of the parliamentary club. What mechanisms are envisaged in the bill, but also in the regulations that will apply to it in order to support small and medium-sized enterprises, our small and medium-sized enterprises? Is there really going to be a system of preferences that will make it easier for these companies to obtain relief decisions so that they can develop their small businesses, and will it create the potential to make use of this capital, which is the largest capital of our economy, small and medium-sized enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u115	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You stress, both the Ministry and the governing coalition, that this is the implementation of a strategy for responsible development. I know precisely the strategy of responsible development and it seems that the idea itself - perhaps so, while the way in which this idea is implemented is subject to a more program of party or governing coalition, i.e. to some centralism, and for some time also to the slogan that Budapest, Orbán's concept of functioning of the economy in Poland will be in Warsaw. And this was pointed out at the meeting of the committee by a representative of the Association of Polish Cities and Local Government. He even said that you nationalize what worked well in local governments, because the economic zones, the old economic zones, functioned well in local governments, being subordinate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, however, they will be subject to central government, state authority. And that's not something you can agree with. You're taking something that worked well. Those powers...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u117	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u118	They built this zone, and you take over and submit to the central government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u119	Thank you. I would like to ask the question of Mr Adam Cyranski, a non-associated Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for the Minister. The first concerns Article. 10. Why can't we give investors the choice of how they want to promote their projects or what advisory services they want to use? The second question concerns Article. 9. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 we read of the obligation for the manager to draw up an investment development plan within a maximum of 60 days from the date of entry into force of the Act. Do you think that such a comprehensive document, including planning and strategic documents, can be prepared in such a short period of time in a responsible manner?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u121	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During our work in committee, we had a problem with the record that talks about the minister's delegation to issue tax relief permits in the form of an administrative decision. In our view, it would indeed be strange to construct if the Minister could cede his powers not to an administrative officer, but to the President of a commercial law company. Is there any way you could explain this? How will this continue? Do you keep this record that's in the bill, or have you found any other solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u123	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u124	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the constructive discussion during the subcommittee and committee meetings. I think it's worth thinking about what's going on. 25, 30 years ago the Polish economy was in a completely different place than today, practically bankrupt. There was hyper unemployment, there was hyperinflation, and there was no so-called. modern know-how. So the task of economic zones at the time was to attract capital from abroad, because then there was no home capital, and job creation. The important thing is that there's work. The economy 30 years later is in a completely different place. Now we have only 6,6 unemployment. This is an indicator for the whole country. Unfortunately, in some places we still have about 15% unemployment but in other places - at 1%. And in the case of those tools that were economic zones 25 years ago, today we have completely different tasks to do. We cannot provide public aid in places where unemployment is very low, but we still need to support where it is high. So we need to diversify our tools. What's with the new bill? First of all, we're not just looking at the amount of investment. It promotes large foreign companies. Mostly these investments are near our western border. We also want to look at quality. Where there is low unemployment, the quality of this investment will be much more important, whether this investment will make the quality of the work of our Polish employees good, whether it will cooperate with universities, universities or will create a series of suppliers in Poland, whether it will develop research and development in Poland. This is the most important thing to us. We still have places in Poland where unemployment is very high. There's more to it than that. There's more to it than that. There's more to it than that. The secondary is whether a string of suppliers will be developed there, etc. So we have to do these two things with this one tool. This is the first thing we want to do. Second thing. So far, the investor, as he wanted to benefit from the economic zone benefit, had to be allowed to be there. In order not to pay the CIT tax, he had to be located in the economic zone, he had to go in there. If the zone had a geographical restriction, we had to go through the procedure to expand this zone, which sometimes lasted up to 20 months. It's unacceptable for an investor to wait 20 months for consent to enter the economic zone. So this is where we completely change our approach. It's not like the investor goes into the zone, it's the zone goes to the investor. For this reason, the whole of Poland is potentially a zone. That doesn't mean that there's a zone all over Poland. An investor, especially a small investor, because this is the most important here, SMEs or micro-entrepreneur, does not need to move from where he lives, where he works, to the zone, only the zone will come to him. So that's a lot of ease. I don't quite understand why there's a problem with local governments because we don't change anything about local governments. The law doesn't change anything, there's no centralization, there's no ownership change for zones, there's no management of economic zones. [[How can you not?]] They just get a lot bigger regions where they can help. Of course, we want it to be in the law that the zone needs to develop a development strategy for a given region, because we do not want each region to be identical. We have the Aviation Valley, we already have a automotive belt, we have specializations in Poland and we want to promote the zones together with entrepreneurs, together with universities, together with local authorities, to develop the broadly understood infrastructure according to what entrepreneurs want there, in cooperation with the management board. There is no centralization here, decisions are still made by the same individuals, by the same economic zones, so here I do not fully understand these changes. There have been a lot of questions and we will answer all the questions in writing in detail, but I will answer some at random. Mr Meysztowicz asked for a delegation with regard to the company. We've checked with the lawyers, and I can confirm that it's okay. These are State Treasury companies, not ordinary companies, so we have an answer to that. We had a question from Mr Kasprzak that there are no investments in the east, there are investments in the west. That's exactly how we want to address it. The problem is that the current Economic Zones Act is purely quantitative. These are those big foreign companies that have big capital, in one shot they employ a lot of people and have the opportunity to enter the economic zone. This is what we want to change and not only look at the amount of capital that is invested, and the number of jobs, but we want to look at and condition this quality of investment, which will allow smaller companies to invest, and smaller companies, I think, will benefit from the opportunities of the eastern part of Poland, because then we will also promote those companies which will not only put their money on quality, but will also export it, and it will export not only to the European Union, where there are 80% of our exports, but also to Asia, Africa and South America, which means that they do not have to be on the western border of Poland, near our biggest partner - Germany, they can be in central or eastern Poland. I hope that this is how we will encourage investment in other places than in the western part of Poland. I'd say, too, that so far the main task of economic zones is to sell real estate and make money on it. We want to change this character so that the main task of economic zones is to support investors to listen to the investor so that it is called. one-stop shop, the first point of contact of the investor, so that the investor doesn't have to walk around the entire local or central administration and look for a solution, only that it is the economic zone that takes on such things. As to Mrs Chmiel's question, this consultation was carried out even twice in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. I think all the comments that came out of this consultation are taken into account. The honourable Mrs Nykiel asked about fossils and development. There is an amendment that has been tabled on this issue, but I think we will continue to strongly consult and consider whether there are any other options, as much as possible. Mr Cyranski - I apologize if I twisted - asked for 60 days to create this plan. It's technically 60 days, it doesn't mean the zones are waiting for this bill to come into force, and then they'll be working on it. These plans have been consulted for a long time, and work has been on them, so I am sure that these plans will be agreed in due course. Mrs Janyska also said that we are pointing out the place of investment. There's no indication here. We're just providing the investor with information that... The aid depends on the level of unemployment in a given district, so we point out that if it invests where there is high unemployment, we have more opportunities to provide public aid under EU law, and where it is smaller, we have less opportunities. It's just an indication, but we're not pointing. This is of course the absolute decision of the investor, where he invests himself and whether this place of investment is in line with his business plan. The rest of the questions will be answered in detail. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u125	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the system of conformity assessment and the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws (prints Nos 2376 and 2442). I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the system of conformity assessment and the Act on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and some other laws, print no. 2376. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and on the basis of Article. On 22 March 2018, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for first reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 12 April, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. As regards the work in committee, only one very important change should be mentioned, namely the title of this law has changed. Following the amendment adopted, the title of the Act was replaced by the following: Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u127	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Law on the system of conformity assessment and the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws, prints Nos 2376 and 2442. The need to amend the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems of 13 April 2016 and certain other laws, firstly, aims to bring Polish law into line with European Union law, secondly, adapts to the Polish market surveillance adopted last year to K.p.a. arrangements for the system of administrative fines and, thirdly, introduces changes aimed at facilitating the functioning of entrepreneurs, such as the indication in certain certification of accreditation of the relevant Union harmonisation legislation, the possibility to authorise the market surveillance of persons other than employees and the possibility to certify copies of documents also by an authorised person in the course of that check. Three European Union Regulations were adopted on 9 March 2016 in accordance with the new legal framework: Regulation 2016/424 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cableway installations and repealing Directive 2000/9/EC, Regulation 2016/425 of the European Parliament and of the Council on personal protective equipment and repealing Directive 89/686/EEC and Regulation 2016/426 of the European Parliament and of the Council on appliances burning gaseous fuels and repealing Directive 2009/142/EC. Poland should adapt its rules to these regulations in two main aspects. Firstly, the application of these regulations requires systemic adjustments primarily in the area of market surveillance rules. The law on conformity assessment systems for market surveillance requires changes in order to bring Polish law into line not only with the Union directives being implemented but also directly with the application of European Union regulations. The most important proposed amendment resulting from the adaptation of the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems to the regulations on the conditions for the placing on the market of harmonised products is the separation under the so-called law. formal non-compliance. The draft law provides for the separation in the control and supervisory procedures governed by that law of the way in which formal non-compliance is to be dealt with. Secondly, Poland is under an obligation to lay down sanctions for infringements by economic operators of the provisions of those Regulations. This obligation is to be implemented by extending the catalogue of the provisions of the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems concerning administrative fines to provisions sanctioning infringement of the provisions of the abovementioned Regulations. In order for the system of conformity assessment and market surveillance to remain consistent and non-discriminatory and for market surveillance to be effective, it is also necessary to amend the catalogue and to edit some existing sanctions in the law. When determining the level of new sanctions, sanctions already existing in the Act were laid down. The proposed draft provides for a reform of the administrative penalty procedure provided for in the amended law, bringing the rules of this procedure closer to the model of the Code of Administrative Procedure. A rule will be introduced that the accreditation certificate issued for authorisation will indicate the relevant EU harmonisation legislation in order to determine the scope of accreditation. Appropriate, i.e. one where the requirements for notification for accreditation are specified. The objective is to accelerate the examination of the results of the notification. The draft law makes a clear distinction between recognised third party organisations and other notified conformity assessment bodies. In implementing Directive 2014/68/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pressure equipment, the difference between them has not been clearly and clearly identified. However, in order for the trader to be clear which products can be made available or put into service and according to which rules market surveillance authorities will assess these products, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice amends by proposing a new wording of the Article. The 12th proposed bill I'm putting on the hands of a marshal. As a result of the amendment of the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, eight other laws, including the Law of 30 August 2002 on conformity assessment systems, are needed. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the provisions of the revised Act and recommend that it be adopted after the proposed amendment has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u129	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! After this comprehensive explanation of the content of this bill, I would like to focus only on some of its elements. We introduce into a functioning law on the compliance system, among others. the obligation to certify cableway installations for the carriage of persons, personal protective equipment, appliances burning gaseous fuels. In this respect, we are fulfilling the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. This amendment of the law indicates among others. a new procedure for the confirmation of formal non-compliance, which shall be established by the supervisory authority. In this respect, it is a good solution. In terms of, I would say, the products we are talking about also introduce penalties for non-compliance. What does this law give Polish entrepreneurs? Certification offers both the possibility of exporting and importing these devices within the European Union, significantly improves the consumer's role in this area. I would like to declare that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support this solution, although we do not know this amendment. A slight correction to my previous speaker's statement. I counted not eight changes, but nine laws in force, but I don't think we're going to fight for this case. Therefore, apart from the introduction or implementation into the Polish legal order, we will discuss this. I have drawn attention in the committee - and I would also like to raise this today in this speech, apart from the statement on the position of the club - to a matter that is extremely important at the moment, and somehow difficult to solve, i.e. the introduction into the Law on the compliance system of certification imposed on fossils, which we use for combustion. So this is about these standards, because we are talking about coal standards, we are talking about how we have a highly polluted environment, whether you planned or are planning to introduce in the system the compliance system also standards for categories or individual components in coal, so that we have a cleaner environment. That's one thing. Secondly, I have been calling for years - and I think this is an important argument - that in situations where we are dealing with regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council or of the European Commission, this procedure to agree on the whole agreement procedure, to inform Parliament of the start before, during and after the process or birth of certain standards, so that we can react quickly in situations which are troublesome as a parliament. And there are probably no such fields of concern, but if they were to appear, it would be much easier for the government to negotiate the existing European rules, which we then adapt to the Polish legal order. I have said this on several occasions in the various presidencies, and I think that this is an important, good argument not only with this solution, but also with everyone where we are implementing European rules to discuss this during the various presidencies as representatives of both Parliament and government, not only in the European Union's Committee on Affairs, where you are informing, but also in order for Parliament to participate in this process. Once again, I would like to remind you that we will be in favour of this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u132	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The project mainly introduces a new solution when it comes to formal errors. It was something that entrepreneurs often tried to stop control when it comes to products that didn't always meet all the requirements, and there was no way to enforce these errors, formal errors, when it comes to accessing products, information. Therefore, these solutions seem to be good. The Modern Posel Club will support these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u133	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to say that we will support these solutions, because the synchronization of our national economic regulations with European Union rules is needed because it facilitates life and functioning. And that is the requirement, that is the need for our economies, our entrepreneurs, to be treated equally. We support these solutions and I will no longer justify it here, because many of the previous speakers have spoken about it. There is a need, and we have to do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u135	Thank you, sir. No questions. Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr. Marcin Ociepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u136	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank the High House briefly for the cooperation that has been made so far, especially the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, and indeed for those words by Mrs Skowronska from the Civic Platform, who stressed that the law is definitely improving the consumer's situation. That is our intention, and this is how we proceed. As regards environmental standards only, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this law does not apply. We want to put these issues in order, as I would say, in a strict and disciplined way through the draft of this law. On the other hand, the issue of standards is a broad issue, dependent not only on us, but also on the European Union. We will be careful to see how much these records should be included in the laws. I mentioned this at the committee meeting that we, as the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, attach great importance to limiting regulation, to combating overregulation of the Polish legal system and therefore with great caution - I kindly ask you to understand us - we approach all issues that must be regulated by laws. One more word, Mr. Marshal, about this amendment. The amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice enjoys our full support. Indeed, it improves the business situation even more, it simply clarifies those issues which may relate to a transitional period which may need to be clarified. This amendment makes this law just better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. And please take the floor of the rapporteur... No, Mr Meysztowicz does not want to. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law on the management of a successful natural person enterprise (prints 2293 and 2454). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation on Government draft law on the management of a successful natural person enterprise, print No 2293. The Sejm at its 60th meeting on 22 March pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation for consideration. The contested bill concerns family businesses in the first place. The number of family businesses in Poland is very high. It is estimated that this is 60% the whole small and medium-sized enterprises sector, with around 1 million players. Family businesses account for 36% all Polish companies and produce 18% GDP. In the current legal situation, together with the death of the entrepreneur, the legal existence of the enterprise which he conducts as one which is inextricably linked to the deceased person ends. Even if there are legal successors, they cannot continue their business on the same terms What businessman owns. The heirs can only resume their activities and therefore there are many very serious practical problems. You can't use an entrepreneur's company, the problem is employment contracts and employee proxy issues. There are virtually no more civil law contracts. Administrative decisions shall expire. There is no possibility of a smooth continuation of tax settlements and the use of NIP. There are difficulties in accessing a bank account held for the business of the company. There is an obligation to reimburse State aid if it has not been fully used up to now. In turn the succession processes, which accompany such changes in the company, are, as we know, long-term and this is practically a dead time, preventing business from continuing. The problem for the entrepreneur may also be to find a successor, even if the entrepreneur takes such action, this possibility does not always exist even in the circle of the immediate family. The current legal order uses or can be used to establish a temporary manager, but this does not solve an absolute number of problems, e.g. issues of concessions, permits, use of NIP, use of the company. There is a lack of mechanism to ensure a smooth way of continuing business. Therefore, there is also a barrier for those interested in continuing the company's activities. The structure of existing companies shows an increasing trend towards the ageing of family businesses. Many companies were created in the process of market transformation of the economy in the late 1980s, hence the threat to continuing the business of these companies is a question about the stability of the economy. It is also necessary to provide legal protection for companies. The problem is that more than 30% of companies have existed for more than 20 years and 6% it exists over 30 years. The Act proposes the entire procedure concerning the succession manager: appointment and dismissal of the manager, resignation, termination of the management board, scope of business management activities in succession, any obligations incumbent on the succession manager and his responsibility, liability for obligations, as well as the possibility of using the company, the right to dispose of the funds collected in bank accounts, the rules relating to civil contracts, and the entire space associated with the transfer of rights to legal successors. Administrative obligations and any issue of business-related permits shall be regulated. The Act provides for regulations on labour law and social security. Allows you to keep an employment relationship or to resume it quickly. Another part of the regulation concerns tax law and ensures continuity in tax settlement, the use of the NIP, the use of the existing owner of tax interpretations and business continuity rules. An important objective of regulation is to protect people connected with their activities, e.g. protect the fate of contractors, co-operatives, consumers and employees of the company. The project started in 2016. A number of consultations were held and the comments submitted were taken into account in part. The consultation was attended by business organisations, including family, employers, trade unions, industry organisations. In total, more than 300 entities were invited. The work of the Extraordinary Commission has been very efficient, with the participation of the social side, including representatives of family businesses. Most of the comments submitted were legislative in nature and their introduction during the committee's work improved the quality of the proposal presented to the High House. The Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation after considering the draft Print Act No 2293 at its meeting of 12 April 2018 requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u139	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u140	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice of its position on the draft law on the management of a successful business of a natural person. This is another law, alongside the business constitution, which aims to facilitate business activity and which was very expected by entrepreneurs and their families. This project was prepared on the initiative and inspiration of family business environments and was widely consulted with them. This law governs the principles of the temporary management of the enterprise after the death of an entrepreneur who, on his own behalf, carried out an economic activity on the basis of an entry in the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity and continued business activity using that undertaking. The Successive Management Act is a comprehensive regulation that focuses on intergenerational succession. It is intended to protect businesses from the consequences of the death of an entrepreneur. This project also allows to safeguard the interests of the company even during the life of the entrepreneur by the appointment of a succession manager. Thanks to the provisions of this Act, contracts, employment contracts, permits or concessions concluded or awarded by the company concerned and related to the death of the owner of the company will remain in force. In addition, the Act will facilitate tax settlement and exempt from inheritance tax the person acquiring the company. However, the most important institution of this project is the issue of the succession board, which is established in the course of life by the entrepreneur himself. If this is not the case, future heirs will be entitled to appoint a succession board and a succession manager. As I mentioned at the outset, this is a very important law for family businesses. Finally, I would also like to make six amendments, which are clear and precise. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u141	Thank you. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Discussions and assumptions concerning this law were initiated over 3 years ago by family companies. This initiative and the work of many people over the years have led to today's results. It is a law needed and expected. It contains practical solutions to support companies in the cases already mentioned here by the rapporteur of the committee, i.e. in the case of a problem which is often very severe in the family, but at the same time it is severe in terms of the existence of the company and, therefore, the whole family with which it is connected. However, this law is difficult because it concerns matter in various areas of law. For the average recipient, especially for micro- and small entrepreneurs, and later, after taking over this company, for subsequent generations, perhaps not working in this company, it is also difficult to understand. That is why it is so important that it is universal - universal in the sense of communicating information, education and advice on how to apply it. I mentioned in my first reading and in the commission that even though there was such a tool so far - it was not perfect, but it was - the inheritance of the will, it really was a small fraction of people who used all of this. This is why it is so important that it can be implemented as soon as possible after the entry into force of this law. I also talked at the committee meeting about the fact that perhaps there is too little time to set up a succession board after the death of the entrepreneur, perhaps too short a time when decisions concerning the company expire. It may also be problematic that the owners of the company obtained in succession may benefit from the expected profit. After all, even an entrepreneur and his family do not always live on this profit. They often live simply from turnover, from income, and only after a long period of time, even after a few years, can you see whether the company is restricting its activity or developing, because these are very different economic periods, which relate especially to these small activities. Those and a few other comments I made didn't make any sense. And I think that in these amendments they may be included - it would be good - but if not, I think it is necessary to give time at the moment for the functioning of this law, to observe and will certainly be to it in some time good, practical comments and necessary system solutions. Because this is one of those laws that practice shows, and it confirms that there are certain doubts that may be reported. That is why I do not make any amendments at this stage, but I declare that I will observe, certainly my club will observe, the practice of these laws. And we will also prepare a system solution in this area, so that information, education and advice are available to companies, especially micro- and small companies, in a continuous manner and as close as possible to the company. The Civic Platform Club will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, it was a long-awaited project. It is not a simple issue, so it was also not without concern about the records of this project. I agree with the Member that it would be good for the project to enter into force and if these rules were in force so that it could be further assessed whether there were any additional legal, practical problems. There are literally a few reservations we're making at this stage. The first is the period for the appointment of the manager after the death of the entrepreneur. It's only been two months. In such a short time you will need to obtain the consent of other people to choose the person of the manager. In the case of succession proceedings, it may not be so sure. The second problem is to limit tax effects only to single-member companies. The lack of a comprehensive approach to the issue, i.e. to regulate all situations in which the person was earning income from non-agricultural economic activities until his death. Another problem, I think, is that it is quite important that a living spouse as a co-owner of a company that was part of the property of a common spouse, which is a standard, will be responsible for tax arrears even if it is omitted in the will. In doing so, he will be responsible for the backlog of both his spouse's life and his death, which is not advisable. Moreover, such responsibility will also be borne by those who will also take part in succession proceedings and will not accept this inheritance. Such a pro-budget legislative approach is also very significant in the explanatory memorandum. This is one of the main ones, but one of the basic motivations for these regulations, this project, that these changes will simply increase revenue to the budget, because they will allow the company to operate and thus pay taxes. There are a number of problems in Poland which, although the solution will not result in budgetary revenue, will solve big problems in functioning or in conducting business activity. I'd like the Ministry to take care of them, too. I'm not talking about the positive side. The rapporteur has already mentioned this. So that as a Kukiz club15 we are in favour of the project. We hope that these comments, like not now, not within this package of amendments to the Law and Justice, will be introduced after some time of operation of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the report of the committee on the Government bill on the management of the successful enterprise of the natural person, prints no. 2293 and 2454. Dear Minister, High Izbo! This is a law that has been expected for a long time, because there have been problems of entrepreneurs who were heirs of persons who carried on business on the basis of an entry in the business register. This continuation was so for a good cause impossible. Unfortunately, all the permits, all the concessions so for a good cause were unrecoverable, from day to day this company could not function for a good cause. This solution, which has been proposed, seems to be a good solution. This law provides for the possibility for the management board to operate such an undertaking, such a company until property matters are settled. It also gives a great deal of freedom when it comes to identifying a person who would run such a company during this period, and it is therefore not imposed. This will give the possibility of a real suggestion. It is good that the actions of the person running such a successful management are a little limited, because it would not be good if it turned out that such an administrator sold the company without the consent of any future heirs. We view this bill as good. You really need to see how it will work in practice, because sometimes it is only practice that shows where possible some elements are not refined or where this machine, which is supposed to work, is blocked. That is why we think that after some time we should see examples of whether it really works. As far as the comments we have are concerned, I'm about to make one amendment. The Act exempts persons who inherit such a company from income tax, provided that they carry on this business activity for 5 years. Everything is fine when the company works well, when it brings profits and there is no problem with it. The problem may be that after 2 years of activity, when everything was okay, suddenly there could be a market collapse, some events that would cause this company to lose its liquidity, lose its customers and close it. It comes to a situation where - if this company is closed for these very economic reasons - this heir will have to pay the outstanding tax, because unfortunately this relief will not benefit him. Therefore, our amendment aims to ensure that, in a situation where there is no economic justification for the company to continue its business activity - but also to prevent it being used or abused too often - the minister can agree, by decision, without erasing this relief, to suspend the operation or to terminate the activity. To sum up, the Modern Club will support this bill, because it considers it good and expected by entrepreneurs, and I will pass this amendment right away, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to comment on the draft law on the management of the successful enterprise of a natural person. This is a very important and expected law, as the predecessors have already said, because in many cases the introduction of this law and the adoption of these solutions will allow the company to continue to function, prevent debt and thus the collapse and liquidation of the company. Who's gonna benefit from that? Surely the owner, surely our national economy, and the additional employees will not lose their jobs either. This is a difficult law, because it regulates difficult economic relations, succession proceedings, etc., but nevertheless it protects the continuity of the company's operation. I think we need to support that. It is certainly a new law, these are new solutions that have not yet applied in our economy, and we will have to look and observe. And as was the case with CEIDG, when it was introduced, it was not possible to predict everything, all the consequences that could arise, and several times it had to be amended, so there will probably also be some observations here and some amendments will have to be made. Nevertheless, the law is needed, these solutions are needed, and we will therefore be in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u149	Thank you very much. And Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the management of the successful enterprise of a natural person, prints no. 2293 and 2454. The bill submitted regulates the principles of the temporary management of the enterprise after the death of the entrepreneur who carried out business on his own behalf on the basis of an entry in the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity and the continuation of the business activity carried out using the company. The current legal situation makes it impossible to maintain the continuity of the business after the death of the entrepreneur, it is only possible to resume the business. The procedures for establishing the acquisition of the estate and the formalities for the renewal of the legal successors of the deceased usually last for months. Such a situation poses a significant threat to the continued operation of the company and can even lead to its liquidation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a legal adviser, I have dealt with cases where family companies - including those operating in the form of a civil company - could not resume their business long after the owner's death due to ongoing succession procedures. This has often resulted in the loss of confidence of counterparties and the need for job losses. All of this negatively affected the company's condition and forced the legal successors of the deceased owner to build it almost from scratch. It should be noted that these companies are the main drivers of the Polish economy. In the vast majority, they implement their tax obligations towards the State in a timely manner. The behaviour of the company on the market is important not only from the point of view of the legal successors of the deceased, but also from the perspective of contractors, consumers or workers. It was therefore necessary to develop rules that would allow companies to operate continuously after the death of the trader. The law on which we proceed gives us the possibility of succession after the deceased entrepreneur, who carried out business activities, until the legal successors of the entrepreneur and the decision on the future fate of the company are established. It lays down rules for the establishment of a succession board and general principles for the execution of a succession board. This allows a smooth continuation of the business activity previously carried out by the deceased entrepreneur without having to liquidate the company and fire employees. In our view, it is a very good law, which significantly increases the chances for the company to continue to operate and develop after the death of the entrepreneur. The Act will protect legal successors of entrepreneurs from losing their achievements, and, more broadly, it will really support the formation of a strong middle class. Indeed, it will have a very positive impact on the functioning of the whole small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The vast majority of single-person entrepreneurs affected by the draft law are part of this sector. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, coming from the REGON register, in November 2017, the number of single-member companies in Poland reached a record level of 3 million. Supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises sector is extremely important because, as I mentioned above, it helps to create a middle class that most effectively supports the economic growth of the country. History shows that countries where middle class representatives prevail are reaching a higher level of economic and civilization development. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle strongly supports the bill on the management of the successful enterprise of the natural person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u151	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. I would like to ask you, Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Emilewicz and Minister Halady for this bill very much on behalf of family businesses. And I have two questions. First question. As a successor manager is established after the death of the entrepreneur, where there are several heirs, e.g. Five, six? That's the first question. Second question. Do you have any simulations, maybe some calculations, how many family companies the bill will help to run the company, in long-term planning, so that today's investments that the company is taking have a chance to continue with this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u153	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! One question in relation to the subject of Mr Meysztowicz's statement. This is a situation that concerns the tax credit after the heir has taken over. It is known that the economic situation varies. It could happen... The Minister may answer. If, for 5 years, we have to conduct an economic activity and if we have the situation that the economic situation in a given industry will be, so to speak, poor and could be declared bankrupt, will the State Treasury claim its claim in the event of bankruptcy? Will this entrepreneur have to pull it out for five years to keep the relief, or is there a possibility, or would it not be worth considering that the Minister's decision could be waived, say, to release it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u155	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit about those voices that were also raised in positions. As far as information activities are concerned, I will confirm what we said in the Parliament's deregulation committee that these information activities will not only be undertaken, but are already planned to be undertaken, and here we are in constant contact with family businesses. The evaluation of the project will also be carried out, and in the impact assessment of the regulation we commit ourselves to this, the OSR is an integral part of the justification, so this will also be. As far as the very detailed comments are concerned, Mr Kulesza spoke about the period of appointment of the succession manager. We have already answered whether I responded in detail during the first reading, why this period is thus balanced. On the other hand, the fact that not everything is included in this law has also come to the attention of the Member. But, as the Member himself said, we are not closing the whole topic for today, we are meeting with one of the associations of family businesses just to talk about succession in commercial companies. So it's not like we're closing the topic of family businesses here as such, and as the ministry, we're ending up taking care of it. And just one more point to Mr Kulesza, regarding what he said, that one of the objectives of the bill is... that the bill is to have a positive budgetary impact, so that there is revenue to the budget. I can't leave that remark without comment. This is, of course, at the very least, a certain figure of rhetoric used in excess, because this is nothing more than a reliable assessment of the impact of the regulation, which shows the impact on all areas of life and social, and economic. The budget is also one thing, so to speak, from objects to which this bill will affect, and the fact that it will have a positive effect is probably only better. On the other hand, I absolutely deny that the aim of this law is to increase budgetary revenue, while its effect is indeed to increase budgetary results. And now I move on to the questions that you Members have asked. Mrs Michalek, Mrs Michalek, asked about the question of the choice of succession manager for many heirs. We assumed that 80% the heirs in respect of the shares which they have in their inheritance will decide this. We have not accepted unanimity because there may be such a situation that, for example, There are, I don't know, five heirs, four want to lead it, and one person who has a negligible share in the inheritance, even because of some personality conflicts, opposes it and turns the dead's life's work upside down by it. So that's also the result. After all, consultation with the environment of family businesses we assumed that it would be 85% so that this share is high enough so that it's not half-fifty and that it's not so that the majority gets together, it decides, with damage to the other large group of heirs. That's 85%. This is, I think, a balanced share, which, on the one hand, will preserve the continuity of the company, on the other hand respect for the interests of the heirs, will allow to preserve. [[And if it's less, what?]] If it is less, it will simply not be appointed a succeeding administrator and will apply normal inheritance rules as they are today, i.e. the property will be inherited by the heirs, but not as a company, as a functioning enterprise, but simply as a complex of assets. How many family businesses can that help? That was your second question. The Act is addressed to companies registered in the Central Register and Information about Business Activity. There we have about 2 million companies today, which is like this potential wallet of interest. There are other issues, however. We estimate that, so to speak, the number of family businesses, although it is not, of course, that we are building a definition of a family business and someone who is not a family business will not benefit from this solution. It is known that the intention to prepare this regulation came from family companies and they are mostly interested, but any company registered in CEIDG will be able to benefit from this solution. On the other hand, we estimate that family companies as such in Poland are about 1 million, that they are more than 1 million enterprises, and that this data, which is also important from the point of view of society, is that in CEIDG we have about 200,000 companies. registered entrepreneurs who have passed 65 years of age, i.e. people who are approaching the age already, so to speak, mature, and rather some inevitable phenomenon is before such people. These are companies that really started their jobs in the late '80s, early '90s. And it's like, I think, the first segment of companies that can benefit from these solutions. Of course, we encourage you to use these solutions even during the lifetime of the entrepreneur, even then the appointment of a succession manager, even then the appointment, because from 30 April we have this possibility, a proxy in such a family company. 200,000. companies are companies whose owners are over 65 years of age. So this also shows the social scale of this problem that we are responding to. Today we have about 100 notifications to the Central Register and Information about the business activity concerning the death of the entrepreneur and the need to delete it. It's like it's also showing the social issue that we're responding to here. The Member also asked about the tax relief. Indeed, we in the discussion both at the first reading and during the committee meeting discussed this, we also discussed it with the club, we talked with the Ministry of Finance. And the amendments made by the Law and Justice Club include this period of 5 years reduced to 2 years. I think that this is already a period in which one can predict a certain economic situation and a certain life cycle of this company, and whether we are able to undertake to run a company transferred as a result of the inheritance as a person outside the family group, because the rules on exemption from this tax in the group of people closest to us already apply today. And we have indeed agreed with these remarks that these five years are too long to take responsibility for driving. And for this incentive to have a more real value, there is this period of 2 years. It also coincides with the period of the succession board itself, which may last a maximum of 2 years. So it's like finding a balanced solution. On the other hand, I think that we will be talking in detail tomorrow at the committee meeting. But as a result, I think that this solution is probably happier than the proposal that the government administration, the Minister of Finance, should assess whether the company should still function, whether it should already function and whether or not it is assumpt to benefit from the tax exemption. To judge, for example, or. bankruptcy is not, I don't know, controlled or targeted in some way, in fact it would be necessary to enter into some assessment issues, the issue of management errors or even the issue of guilt. Of these two amendments, which in principle concern the same scope, I would recommend shortening this time, introducing a predictable, two-year period, no longer entering into the evaluation solutions. I don't know, I think entrepreneurs would be looking forward to it, too. On the other hand, I think that both amendments are moving in a similar direction, responding to the same previously diagnosed problem, so I hope that this amendment of the Law and Justice Club will consume the attention of the Modern Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 59 hours 13 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals (prints no. 22991, 2291-A and 2513). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my pleasure to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals - the prints that Mr Marshal mentioned just now. After first reading on 12 April, the bill was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance, which, on 8 May, yesterday, examined the draft law and recommended that the High House adopt it. This proposal introduces a number of adjustments to the tax burden under the current rules, which are the result of an assessment of the implementation of the current rules and are aimed at clarifying them and reducing the tax burden and thus facilitating the functioning of taxpayers by merely clarifying the rules. They also aim to implement the European Commission's recommendation on minimum taxation on rental income. The main objectives of the amendment should be to enable the heirs of fixed assets and intangible assets to re-establish the initial value and thus to allow for re-imposition, which mitigates the provisions that appeared in the Act of 27 October 2017, and to allow the gifted to make depreciation write-offs not from the initial value, but at the value determined by the donor, which is the solution expected by family companies. The purpose of the government project is also to ensure uniform treatment of participants in legitimate games, run both by licensed casinos and by a state monopoly company, as well as the introduction of an income tax exemption from individuals from the proceeds of assistance granted to the Police by persons who are protected by it, where, through the information they provide, they participate in the disclosure of offences. To this day, the Act exempts from taxation remuneration from the provision of assistance to state services paid from the operational fund. On the other hand, as regards contact with the police, these issues raised some doubts, they required clarification, as has been done in this project. The catalogue of areas where 50% of revenue costs can be used has also been extended - among others. in the field of construction engineering, translation, computer games. In this respect, an amendment was tabled to extend the catalogue of these privileges to research and development, scientific and teaching activities and teaching by academic teachers and teachers of secondary schools. However, this amendment was not accepted by the members of the committee. 12 Members voted in favour, 25 against and no one abstained. Special attention is paid to the benefits of the Law relating to the exemption from taxation of interest waivers on housing loans so-called. An old wallet. The repayment of housing loans of an old wallet, otherwise called Balcerowicz's loans, was regulated by the 1997 Act. This was the case for loans up to 31 May 1992. This law on State aid in the repayment of certain housing loans, among others. A transitional repayment of interest on these loans from the State budget has been introduced. This was a form of compensation for the huge burden which fell on borrowers because, firstly, interest was charged on interest, i.e. interest capitalization was carried out even though the payments were timely and although the borrowers did not agree at the time of the conclusion of the contracts and the interest was commercialised contrary to the provisions of banking law. This resulted in a huge burden on some borrowers who, paying their loan for many years, made payments equivalent to two or even three times the value of the apartment. This is a very painful case in Polish housing, in Poland, because a very large number of borrowers, members of housing cooperatives suffered a huge injury in the form of an inexplicable usury. We in previous terms have tried twice to amend the law to reduce these burdens, for example by otherwise charging this aid from the State: to charge interest, not interest, but capital itself, which would cause that capital would not create this interest again. However, this test was not accepted by the majority at that time, which we regret very much. The 1997 amendment introduced the Law on State aid in the repayment of certain housing loans. Both the temporary-purchased interest and the capitalised interest were allowed to be remitted to the burden of the State budget. This law states that if borrowers have paid or paid off their loans regularly for 20 years - this also applies to individuals and housing cooperatives, starting on 1 January 1998, but not later than 1 January 2006. - it is after a timely, regular repayment for a period of 20 years that are guaranteed by the Law of redemption into the burden of the state budget precisely those charges arising from the temporarily redeemed interest and capitalised interest. These are large amounts, please, because even for 2018 for this purpose was reserved in the state budget of PLN 390 million. In turn this burden is measured per member of the cooperative and on average ranges from several hundred PLN to more than 100 thousand. zł. There is also a large burden - in the order of up to PLN 1 million - on housing cooperatives. These are the amounts of redemptions. Since, as of 1 January 2018, the most massive use of this privilege began - a provision for members of housing cooperatives who meet these conditions - a problem arose. On the one hand, these persons are guaranteed by the interest waiver law, but on the other hand there has been a problem with the tax on this redemption. The banks have observed to cooperatives, as well as to members of housing cooperatives, that under the current law, which is true, this is a taxable advantage. And that's where the problem was solved. I am very pleased and thank the finance minister that, after a thorough examination, after an initial attempt to solve the problem only through the regulation at the moment, because this was not possible by the bill, comes up against this issue, i.e. those who meet the conditions for redemption after 20 years of repayment from the State aid law, since the entry into force of this law which we are discussing today, may not be afraid to tax the benefits of this redemption. Thus, it is possible to apply for the State aid law, which leads to a write-off of interest. Once again, I stress that this is a very important thing, because it raised doubts, a certain social concern. Of course, there are other doubts, e.g. what about those persons who, although they were legally entitled to redemption, fearing the consequences in the form of taxation, continued to pay off those redemptions. I hope that the Ministry of Finance, together with other ministries, will proceed as soon as possible to clarify and reassure these members of housing cooperatives and cooperatives themselves and we will solve this problem together. Of course, we are ready to work, to cooperate in this direction. These are actually the most important issues that the bill raises. There is another important issue, because in the face of the aggressive struggle to keep them hidden, mainly by large economic operators, taxes on the rental of large real estate areas, has been introduced by the current finance resort minimum tax. The European Commission raised some reservations about this, suggesting that this income tax should cover all real estate, buildings, excluding residential buildings which have been put into use under general government programmes. It is therefore recommended to apply a minimum income tax to those properties or parts thereof that are rented. This also required an adjustment in the Act on income tax on natural and legal persons, which was made. Therefore, in favour of the need for these solutions which the Act implements and in favour of resolving the problems it is facing, after the discussion that took place yesterday, the committee explicitly supported the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u159	Thank you very much, Member. Our debate is attended by students from the middle school in Jemelnica, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Bielecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u160	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Government's draft Print Act 2291, 2291-A and 2513. The project in question primarily introduces minor regulatory modifications, which started in force on 1 January 2018. The project proposes e.g. enable businesses to redefine the initial value acquired through the loss of fixed assets and intangible assets, allowing for their re-precision. In the case of funds acquired through donations, the project introduces the principle of continuation by the gifted depreciation write-offs made by the donor. The project introduces a tax exemption for revenue obtained from financial assistance received from the Police by persons protected under the Crown Witness Act, the Protection and Aid Act for the Victim and the Witness and other similar benefits paid in connection with the so-called. the institution of a small coroner, described in the Penal Code. The government in this amendment wants to sort out the so-called loans. an old portfolio from the time of economic transformation, linked to the market share of housing loans from the 1990s. Therefore, it adds in the PIT and CIT Act the exemption from taxation of the amounts of deferred liabilities arising under the State Aid Act. According to the designed solutions, the total income tax exemption from individuals will be subject to winnings in slots, cards, dice, cylindrical games and bingo. This will ensure uniform treatment of participants in legal games, regardless of the player who organises these games. The amendment to the PIT Act also includes a change that clarifies the concept of creative professions and adds new fields, among others. in the field of construction engineering, translation or computer games for which 50% of the cost of income may be applied. In print no 2291-A, the government at first reading submitted an autocorrection which introduced the necessary amendments to the PIT Act and to the CIT Act eliminating objections addressed by the European Commission as a result of the so-called proceedings initiated. minimum income tax. As a result of the proposed changes, the minimum income tax will cover all buildings located in Poland, with some exemptions. These are residential buildings that will be put into service under government or local state aid schemes. The tax will apply to those properties and their parts that are rented. The project assumes that the reduction of the tax base in the minimum income tax by PLN 10 million refers to the entity rather than to the property it owns. The possibility of refunding the revenue tax on buildings is also noted if the tax authority confirms the payment of PIT or CIT at the appropriate amount. The aim of the introduction of the minimum income tax was to reduce the optimisation measures applied by large operators. Changes in this tax may therefore have a positive impact on the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, it will fill the next point in the electoral programme of Law and Justice. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the changes presented in the government bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u161	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Vladimir Nykiel, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. Currently, Poland lacks a comprehensive vision of the tax system, the aim to which the government should pursue, giving a clear answer, what it wants to achieve, how to stimulate and protect the economy. Every few months, sometimes even more often, every few weeks, various types of tax-change projects are being made to the Sejm, but there is no legislative action plan, and the quality of these projects is often low. These are not minor changes, as my previous speaker said. However, first of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal significantly amends the regulations that were adopted on 27 October and started to apply on 1 January 2018, so very recently, they were adopted very recently. Why, then, are the rules that were adopted a few months ago changed? These provisions must change, since they contain many different types of substantive and formal errors and have been prepared carelessly. If we look at the Polish dictionary and make mistakes with carelessness, then the linguists tell us to call it sloppy. I will not discuss the scope of these changes, because it was presented by my previous speakers, but I would like to stress that the scope of these changes is very large. It should be stressed that the text of the amendments covers 12 pages, and the Ministry of Finance already noticed in November 2017 the shortcomings adopted several weeks earlier. There is no doubt that there was no proper coordination of the work on the various pieces of legislation in the course of legislative action. The opinions and experiences of future addressees of the regulations have not been taken into account, and this is why the reflection that the previous regulations were simply good, because they are now coming back to them, turned out to be late. In the case of so-called. the revenue tax on buildings was not sufficiently analysed and established as to the compatibility of the legislation on that tax with European Union law. The project improves regulation by means of changes and is therefore necessary. Unfortunately, it does not completely eliminate all bad or questionable regulations, e.g. In addition to the rules allowing depreciation from the market value in the event of the acquisition of the asset through inheritance, we have only the possibility for the buyer to continue the depreciation, i.e. if the father buys the apartment outside of the business and gives it to his son to the company, the son loses the cost of the acquisition. A number of formal allegations can also be made to the so-called regulations. tax on revenue from buildings. But, as I say, because this proposal improves legal regulations, we will be in favour of adopting it, but it would be worth thinking about preparing legal acts of such quality that they do not need to be changed in a few weeks or a few months. This should be treated as a kind of lesson. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u163	Thank you. Mr Blażej Parda, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, that's right, there's a big problem here. I mean, the problem - now it's going to be a success. How can we succeed? All you have to do is mess something up, then fix it. But is this the right way? Is that why we're coming here, to pass the law in files, in volumes, in tons, really? Because here you often leave with tones with regulations, laws, and then it turns out that additional tons have to be added to fix what has just left. Sometimes I think there's a little Chinese law factory here - just as much as possible. Although China already specializes, quality is getting better, so that it might even be offensive to China. A large amount, a small quality, and then it causes problems. We call for the process to be slower, more precisely, calmer. So much of this right is re-created that citizens or entrepreneurs are still not able to read it in sufficient time. We've got here anyway. In the explanatory memorandum proposed in this draft law, the amendment concerns inter alia. Restoration of winning tax rules in force until 31 December 2017, which means we are back to the same thing. Another issue is the law on the application of income costs. We as Kukiz.15 made such a bill a year ago, so that when it comes to creators, authors, they would raise this limit, which the Civic Platform had very shorted out. Law and Justice recently increased this limit twice - we wanted it not to be at all - but it forgot, as it turns out, to add a few industries and therefore there were numerous problems with the interpretation and fears of the creators who today were at this stake, whether they could or could not. We know that every IRS is some kind of individual kingdom, and as the warden says, it is. And maybe there's such a huge request to the ministry to finally control what's going on with these rules, because then there's these rules, and there's an entrepreneur in the middle, and there's a head of the office who's gonna interpret it in his own way. So let's either write this law more accurately, or let's give some general interpretations, but in that case for every article, because then it turns out that you can interpret it very differently, and for example. there are reservations about those activities that are exempted, because on the one hand there are architects, there is interior architecture and landscape architecture, and this is actually a sub-architect of architecture, so I don't understand why break it up. And for this reason, going further, we have separate audiovisual and audio-visual works, but for example. There's no visual. The tax office will treat it so that, since it is broken down into different architectures, the legislator wanted them to be so individual. And since there's no visual, it means she shouldn't be fired, even though it doesn't make any sense at all. This whole thing is so inconsistent. I don't know what category it was made in. Let's focus on whether it's PKD, or there's a system, because it's just chaos, and now there's gonna be other people who are gonna be hurt, who aren't fired, because that's what you can read in your own way. I also have an amendment in this title to add visual art to this category, so that there are no problems with interpretation, so that we don't have to meet here in three months and fix it here again, and computer graphics, which by some is considered to be art, is not by others, but since we have detailed computer games, I think that all the more computer graphics should be here. Another issue is the interpretation of the tax office. Yeah, this is where you fix it, too. In the explanatory memorandum: the amendment aims to eliminate undesirable interpretations of the rule - because the amendment was wrong, because you were thinking about one thing and then it turned out that the tax office was thinking about the other, you did not meet in the same place. So let's really slow down on these laws so we don't make mistakes like that. Last question: property rental tax. The government has taken into account the concerns of the European Commission. We understand the need to stabilise the rules, but it looks more and more like a cadastral tax. May the rulers, using such a method of foot at the door, not come up with the idea of taxing other properties, such as apartments or houses. Poles, you know, reach their properties for many years. 30 years - credit, interest rates often many times higher than in other European countries, and in a moment it may turn out that one of the rulers will come up with the idea of taxation of housing and homes. [[Voice from the room: Don't scare.]] ♪ 'Cause if you lift ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] the price of fuel of 10 gr per finger snap, then who knows what will be next month in the case of property tax prices. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u165	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! There was supposed to be a tax that will fight against optimization applied, among others. through galleries, large shopping malls, and actually came out a minimum income tax on commercial real estate, which at the moment you are expanding so widely that it can be said that, taking into account commercial property, we will pay it quite commonly in Poland. Let's remind you that at the end of the ub. In an urgent fight against optimization, the government introduced a tax which has been paid since the new year, among others. shopping malls, office owners. At that time, the UOKiK and the MFA pointed out that the tax is incompatible with EU law, that it is used too selectively, and most likely the European Commission will simply question this tax, just as it had questioned before the trade tax, whose fates are still still undecided. That's exactly what happened. Even the KPRM lawyers said that this tax would most likely be challenged, but the Ministry of Finance went on. Of course, it turned out that the tax is not compatible with EU law, is used too selectively and cannot be accepted. The government had two things to choose from: either once again, to go out into a government that cannot create tax solutions, but to create legal bubbles not accepted by the European Commission, and to withdraw from this tax, or simply to expand it quite widely. Unfortunately, in order to get out of this whole problem face-to-face, the government chose this second way and decided to tax all commercial real estate additionally, you can say, reducing the amount of free money that was supposed to be allocated to each building so far, and now it will be counted for the owner - if someone owns several buildings, it will have a total amount free of PLN 10 million. What does that mean for customers? That this tax will be paid not only by the owners of the shopping galleries, not only by the owners of office buildings, but also by e.g. hotels, warehouses and owners of various types of apartments. Apartments built for rent will also be included. Only those housing units that are built under government programmes will be left out. And that really means that the recipients of this tax and the payers of this tax will be customers of the shopping galleries, customers using hotel services, clients renting apartments, clients renting their offices in office buildings or persons renting. storage surfaces. As a result, taxes will be passed on to apples, citruses, toys and other items stored in these warehouses, because this is exactly how the introduction of special taxes ends - as in the case of banking tax and any other special-purpose tax they are ultimately translated into customers. There's no other way. Moreover, the latest data also disproves myths that shopping malls in Poland do not pay tax because they pay, and they pay very much. This is the reason why we are absolutely unable to accept these changes as Modern, even though some positive changes are actually being made by this law. Because let us remind you that globally and initially this whole amendment was simply to correct the errors of the legislation sealing the tax system that was passed at the end of the year, and the extension of this minimum tax is the effect of the self-correction, which occurred a few days before the first reading. There are positive things there, such as restoring the possibility of depreciation of fixed assets received in succession or in the form of a donation, clarifying the tax treatment of income generated from the disposal of shares acquired under the so-called "merger." incentive schemes, extension of the catalogue of creators covered by the possibility of applying flat-rate revenue costs, etc. But unfortunately, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The autocorrect broke the entire bill. As a modern club, we will certainly not support this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u167	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on income taxes, prints 2291, 2291-A and 2513. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we analysed the draft law submitted to the government along with the self-correction and substantive amendment tabled by the Civic Platform group. The Commission has taken into account, with the approval of the government, proposals from the legislative office, proposals of an editorial nature, quite numerous amendments of this nature. Unfortunately, this substantive amendment, as a result of the vote and the fact that there was a majority of the PiS Members in the committee, was rejected and concerned a slight extension of the Rule. 22 paragraph 9b of the Act. Members also requested tax relief for authors of research and development, scientific and teaching activities, scientific and teaching activities also carried out by teachers of secondary schools. Unfortunately, the amendment was rejected, and I must say, honestly, for reasons which I do not understand. This rejection is certainly not an incentive for teachers to do this, and innovation and research, after all, the government counts as a priority activity or even, I would say, a strategic one, so it is incomprehensible to me. Is that why she was rejected because she was not reported by Law and Justice? I guess that's the only reason. The remaining substantive decisions are, in principle, in the version originally submitted in the draft submitted by the Government. Recalling the provisions of the bill, I would like to say that they refer to the Act of 27 October Ub. R. with an identical title, a law passed several months ago. Many of the changes made restore the provisions in force before the amendments were introduced in October. These include: depreciation charges on fixed assets and intangible assets acquired by way of a donation or inheritance or the introduction of a uniform treatment of casino gaming participants irrespective of the player in play, so uniform tax rules have been restored for both casino games and games organised by a State monopoly company in this respect. In addition, the project contains favourable proposals for, among others, the exemption from income tax on income income from financial assistance received by persons protected under the Crown Witness Act and similar benefits, and provides for exemptions from the tax for the redemption of part of the housing loans or of the guarantee premium refunds granted and paid by the bank. The project also proposes solutions for minimum income tax on building revenues. This provision is probably the most controversial, but these issues, as the government assures, have been agreed with the European Commission. In conclusion, according to our assessment, the project contains good proposals, eliminates the adverse provisions introduced a few months ago by the Law of the end of October Ub. It is only a pity that it has not taken into account the proposed amendment concerning the relief for teachers of secondary schools. However, in general - I must emphasise this once again - this is a flagship example of an unbiased legislative process. This, of course, concerns the previous project, from last year, which was imposed on the Sejm by the ruling party. Such practices should be avoided in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u169	Thank you, Member. Mr Gaina gave his position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If anyone wants to sign up for the floor, come on in. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. [[One and a half minutes.]] One minute. You can say anything in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Whoever received the property in a donation before 2018 cannot now depreciate it. This was confirmed by the Director of National Tax Information in the interpretation prepared for the individual case of April this year. It was only after this interpretation that the government noticed that there was something wrong with the legislation that it changed in October and which came into force in January. This is the good change, that it's always changing for worse, with mistakes, and then it comes back to earlier solutions. The current changes mean a partial return to the earlier system. It's a way to meet the demands of family businesses. Changes have a positive impact on the situation of heirs. They will be able to depreciate their inherited assets on existing, favorable principles. But it's not the same as the gifted. For them, the revision of the rules does not mean, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that they will still be able, as before 2018, to determine themselves for depreciation purposes the initial value of the assets received from their loved ones. I wanted to ask, wouldn't it be better to go back to the previous legislation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to come back and ask you a question about the discussion before yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. It's about the doubts we've been reporting. Has the Ministry made any changes? Will there be a correction of those records that raise doubts? Firstly, this concerns the refund of the tax. The law says whether the draft law states that two conditions must be met: the first, i.e. at the request of the taxable person, and the second, if the tax authority does not find irregularities in the amount of the tax liability. This record is very unclear, because it is difficult at the moment to assess how it will be implemented in practice. Why doesn't the legislator or the designer refer to the Tax Order but introduces unknown criteria? That's one thing. The second issue concerns those 16 days a month, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to the use of real estate. Has there been any change in this matter during the night or day? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u173	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Gabriela Masłowska from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u174	Minister! I have raised this problem, which I want to ask you today during the committee's work. It concerns, in particular, this group of taxpayers, members of housing cooperatives who have made, using the benefits of the State aid law in the payment of certain housing loans, payments, payments of interest already unduly paid to no one capitalised and temporarily redeemed. They just wanted to make sure they weren't treated like debtors afterwards. In this situation, will those who have been paid back by law guaranteeing that they did not have to pay those interest rates have the opportunity to make any claims for reimbursement of those amounts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the Minister, a few days after this discussion, promise us that he will consider this problem with the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Infrastructure? He will certainly need an urgent solution, because we receive a lot of calls about it in the parliamentary offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u175	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one short question: Is the Ministry of Finance planning to introduce this exemption from the tax on minimum rent of small areas, e.g. To 20 m2? The turnover of contracts, which is reported by the owners, is very large when renting such areas. It seems that such a solution is very sensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u177	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first question concerning the alleged return to tax rules for the inheritance and depreciation of fixed assets subject to such a reduction. We're not going back to the way we were. We are creating a new legal state, which means that the heir can continue to amortize on the existing principles, the parameters used by the heir. Therefore, there is no double recognition as a cost in situations where this should not be the case. The second question concerning the rules for verifying the appropriateness of the refund of the minimum tax. These rules are clearly laid down in the general provisions of the Tax Order. This type of test is an obvious procedure, is carried out according to an obvious methodology. It is simply verified that the taxpayer's accounts are being settled with an emphasis on whether the financing of a property is based on market values or whether the cost of certain intangible services is not excessive in the company that owns the property. It's a pretty standard procedure. That's how we imagine it. With regard to this non-precision provision concerning the entity bearing the cost of tax on sales during the month, we are actually working on a minor word change at the moment to eliminate this ambiguity. We are counting on the possibility of this correction at the senate stage, because earlier, I think we are not able to present a sufficient change. They ask questions about the interest paid on the outstanding loans. Yesterday after the committee meeting, we asked a question to the Ministry of Infrastructure. We are in contact with them and will respond in writing as we announced at the committee meeting. On the minimum area to be exempt from the minimum tax, we have also recognised this argument from one of the social parties at the committee meeting yesterday and we are preparing a solution which will eliminate these incidents, let us hire from the general principles of the minimum tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u179	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals (prints 2291 and 2291-A). The draft law is moving towards tax rationalisation of economic operators' behaviour in a competitive environment. Technical amendments were made during the work of the Committee on Public Finance and a number of provisions were clarified, making them more understandable. Several doubts were also raised, which were considered in the discussion and resolved in the vote. The proposed amendments to the Act have the approval of the Free and Solidarnia Posel Circle, especially as they meet the demands of taxpayers and are beneficial for economic and civil trade. In particular, our acceptance is made in print 2291-A autocorrection concerning the tax on revenue from buildings, which in principle will counter aggressive tax optimization. The doubts raised in the discussion of this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances were mainly related to the extension of the catalogue of entities subject to this tax and to burdensome administrative obligations for smaller entities. There have also been reservations about the efficiency of managing the rental of very small areas, such as ATMs or distribution machines for beverages and foodstuffs, in the context of the contested law and the mechanism for applying for tax returns in the event of a real loss on the rental activity of the property. The procedure for agreeing with the European Commission on the non-discriminatory nature of the law also raised doubts. The Ministry of Finance has in substance justified the provisions adopted and agreed that the problem of very small areas can be resolved by excluding these revenues from the Act. Other reservations concerned the extension of the catalogue of professions covered by tax concessions resulting from cultural, scientific and technological works, which are extremely important for the development of the country. In particular, the discussion focused on the professional group of primary school teachers and computer graphics. In our view, the provisions adopted describe creative fields of activity well. The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the government's initiative to introduce a number of tax modifications in this project. They are fundamental in nature and meet the economic and social needs of our country in a systematic manner. It impresses the number of changes introduced systemically in many areas of life. The regulations concern, among others, the following: taxation of winnings obtained in slot games, extending the exemption of income from financial assistance received from the Police, increasing the catalogue of revenue obtained from the use of copyright, introducing favourable depreciation rules for family businesses, clarifying the revenue generated from the sale of shares acquired under incentive schemes, introducing exemptions related to residential loans, clarifying the rules on taxation of monetary contributions to companies. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u181	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Law on Education Law (prints No 2413 and 2500). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the joint committees: education and local government, the draft law contained in print 2413 was considered. The project concerns two changes in the Law of Education. One change concerns the way trade union representation is selected for the selection committee for school heads and the other concerns the rules of the pedagogical board, which proposes that a secret vote be taken in the case of decisions relating to personal matters relating to the management of that school or establishment. During the committee's meeting, there were no substantive comments on this law. Most of the discussions concerned some other topics. The only issues raised regarding the Education Law as amended by this law concerned how to distinguish trade union federations and confederates, because this was the case with the law, and whether the provision concerning any reference to the presence of a work commission in a given educational institution would also change the case law. That's where the suggestion was to look at those records again. As regards the point concerning the amendment of the Council's Rules of Procedure, there were in principle no comments. One minor editing has been accepted. The committee is asking for... I mean, she hasn't applied for admission yet, but she's directed it to further reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u183	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I was just saying, this bill was created in connection with the voices of local governments and teachers. They pointed out that the current provisions of the Educational Law in at least two elements had some inconsistencies, or at least different interpretations. The first of these suggestions concerned the composition of the competition committee and the manner in which it was appointed. Let me remind you that the Education Law here provides for representatives of the governing body, i.e. self-government, and the supervisory authority, i.e. the curator, as well as representatives of parents, teachers and trade unions. This last piece... Although the amendment of the Education Law, which was so fundamental several months ago, tried to regulate the matter unambiguously, indicating that the various representative trade unions should have one representative on the competition committee, it turned out that the provisions of that law are interpreted differently. Although this intention was accepted by the legislator in most local governments, in some local governments it was the case that trade unions, which are a federation, were replaced by the principle of one representative for a representative trade union and there were representatives of two, three trade unions, which were part of a federation trade union. The case was so controversial that in one of the cities it was sent to a voivodship administrative court, which accepted the position of the voivodship - which was such as the legislative position - that one representative should be chosen from individual representative trade unions. However, the case is still pending before another judicial instance, and some local authorities are still trying to apply such an interpretation that they can identify several representatives of these smaller trade unions that are part of the federation. We felt that, in order to regulate this matter, it was worth submitting a bill which would clearly confirm the will of the legislator, expressed several months ago, formulated in a slightly different way, and would achieve the same goal, so that there would be no question of interpretation. Hence those changes which concern Article. 63. 14. The second part, as I mentioned, concerns the teaching board's rules of procedure. These were, above all, the voices of teachers who signaled that when decisions were taken at the meeting of the pedagogical board concerning the management positions at school - for example, expressing their views on whether the term of office of the Director should be extended or whether the election of the vice-director of the school or the institution and similar subjects - some directors unfortunately move to impose a public vote on the pedagogical board, which clearly makes it difficult to express the true intentions of the teachers participating in the vote because of concerns, for example, about how the vote against the current director will be dealt with. Hence, we were asked to make this clear. The point is that there is no need for a public vote to be taken again on a secret vote in personal matters, only in order to make it clear in the rules. Indeed, we have proposed such a provision that explicitly forces the educational councils in schools to apply this solution, and this has generally not raised any doubts. We hope that this problem will be resolved in this way. We welcome the position of both the Sejm Analysis Office and the majority of social organizations that they agreed to both of these solutions. As I said, there were some doubts about union representation. We, in agreement with those comments which were made during the committee's meeting, will propose amendments to the Rule. In order to amend the content of this section on trade unions and to make this content the following: In order to conduct the competition, the school or institution shall appoint a competition committee in its composition, and in point 3 on trade unions it shall read as follows: one representative of the trade union organisations within the meaning of the Council of Social Dialogue Act, comprising the school or establishment in which the competition takes place, selected from among the members of their organisational units or the organisational units of the trade union organisations which are members of the representative organisations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a trade union association of teachers, the representative of which may not be employed in the school or institution to which the competition relates. In addition, there are two other amendments: one concerning the transitional period and the other, in principle, editorially covering this amendment of the regulations not only schools but also educational establishments. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u185	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present our position on the draft amendment to the Education Law Act. I would like to remind your fellow Members that a few months ago, when we examined this law, we made it clear that it is a threat to the apoliticality of schools. Unfortunately, our predictions have come true because we have seen how policy has entered schools on the basis of this Education Law, and how involved, often politically, there are school curators, as reported by the media, and you have repeatedly had the opportunity to read in the various kinds of media that the school curators are doing. These are not apolitical actions. And therefore, we are in favour of changing the composition of the competition committee a little more at the same time. We propose that we return to the old records which said that the competition committee consisted of three representatives of the lead authority and two representatives of the pedagogical supervisor. This will make the schools more depoliticized and that the curators will not be so willing to make decisions. As to who is to be the headmaster of the school, and they will be more concerned with the substantive work, helping with the school's activities. And that is the purpose of this amendment. I, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, put this amendment in the hands of your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u187	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u188	At the same time, I would like to say that the aim of this amendment, as the applicant said, is to clarify the rules on the participation of trade union representatives in the competition committee for the position of school head. You considered - probably rightly - that this caused some kind of conflict, but I will remind you that at yesterday's meeting of the education committee, representatives of trade unions who were allowed to enter the hall - because I would remind you that the representative of "Solidarity" for understandable reasons, the bans unfortunately could not be found in the hall - were quite critical of this amendment proposed by you. Well, they said that you favor one of the trade unions. This was the opinion given by Mr Valery Pisarek from the Trade Union Forum, also Mr Baszczyński, vice president of the ZNP, had a similar opinion. I think that this amendment that you have made at the moment partially improves these provisions, but that is probably not yet what it would be about. I still feel that, unfortunately, you're favoring one of the trade unions. And as far as there have been some kind of problems between unions so far with the fact that there have been conflicts in these competition proceedings, I'm afraid that now, in favor of one trade union, these conflicts are going to be even bigger, and I don't think that's quite a good solution. Let me remind you that at the moment, these provisions, which are in the Education Law Act, are still not satisfying neither the Civic Platform nor teachers nor trade unionists. If you could go towards these three amendments - I have tabled one and my colleagues will report two more - then, of course, the Civic Platform will consider supporting this project. If our amendments are rejected, the Civic Platform will certainly object to this project because it does not change anything in fact. And I keep saying this with stubbornness, looking into the eyes of the Member of the applicant, that this causes the politicisation of schools. We do not want schools to be politicized, and you should be in favour of schools being depoliticised as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present my position on the Act amending the Education Law Act, print No 2413. The proposed amendments to this legislation are acceptable without reservation only in one element, i.e. the confidentiality of voting on the resolutions of the educational board of the educational establishment taken on or in matters relating to persons acting in management functions or concerning the opinion of candidates for these functions. This case raises practically no doubt and we stand for it. The second element of legislation, although we understand the reasons for it, contains serious formal and substantive shortcomings and therefore requires clear repair. This is about representation of trade unions in competition committees for executive positions in educational institutions. The practice has shown that local government units do not manage to interpret the existing provisions of the Education Law Act, which, by ambiguity, would cause representatives of as many as seven nationwide trade unions to be part of such committees. This is an extended interpretation, but applied in practice, or one which all trade unions in the broad sense demand. However, the solution proposed by the applicants is the solution not only ineffective, but even more unauthorised, because in the case of the impossibility of selecting one member from several trade unions, the right to participate in the competition committee of this organisation, which has the largest number of members in the institution. This solution is only seemingly fair. Today, Mr Piontkowski has proposed a change which destroys the original wording contained in this amendment. However, we propose such an amendment that the committee should consist of representatives of only one trade union organisation which operates on the premises of the educational establishment, of course non-teachers or employees of the institution. Why are we restricting the participation of professional organisations of teachers or employees in the educational institution? Because the choice of management refers to a particular institution, there is no reason for its management to be decided by those trade unions that do not have a representative in it who do not work in it. It can also cause this effect that they will be more expansive in their activities. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 amendments are tabled. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Education. The draft law submitted is a minor amendment to the Education Law as regards the clarification of the regulation concerning the participation of trade union representatives in the competition committee in the selection of the head of the school and the secrecy of the voting of the pedagogical board, where the voting concerns persons holding management positions at the school. Both cases of change should be considered justified. However, on the occasion of this amendment, I would like once again to express my opposition to the over-representation of the curator's representatives in the competition committees. For this reason, we welcome the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, and we make our vote conditional upon adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, club of the Polish People's Party. Ah, he made his statement in writing. Mrs Mirror also submitted them in writing. So let's get to the questions. Nine ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mrs Margaret Navel... [[One and a half.]] ...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Proposed as new Article. The 63th Act is intended to clarify the question of the participation of representatives of the trade union organisations in the competition committee, since it may have been overinterpreted earlier, but it may exclude one of the representative trade unions operating in education from the committee. The proposed provision may be interpreted in such a way that the appointment of a joint representative would be the duty of two or more establishment organisations forming part of different trade union organisations. Interested parties were right to propose adding the same word before the union organisation was formulated, which would resolve the concerns of both the applicant Members regarding the proposed text of the Act and the organisation itself. There would be no room for overinterpretation on either side. And I wanted to ask if it was like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the record will be entered. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u195	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! During my many years of educational practice at school as a visiting officer at the school, I often met with information that school heads are forcing a public vote when considering different opinions. This was most often the case for competitions for the headmaster of the school. Teachers felt intimidated, such an atmosphere of nervousness, such an extortion. And that's why I'm really glad that the Ministry took a look at this case, that it needs to be cut. I just wanted to ask you a quick question. Can teachers be in the future thanks to these records [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you calm about that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u197	Thank you. The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You're doing this because you're listening to your own people. I mean, at the request of the "Solidarity," one trade union, you change the law, but you do not do what is important in this law, i.e. the choice of the school head and the politicisation of the school. You created these regulations to introduce your Pisiewicz people into school. Today the school curator blocks the choice of school head, today the school curator does not allow local governments to manage the school, makes sure that the school is ruled by someone who is law and justice or favors this party. You're protecting your directors. The Director of Steel Wola, who promoted ONR, is still the Director. He's your headmaster supported by the education parole officer. And education curators do not care about the quality of education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] school policy. [[And the question?]] I'm making an amendment that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u199	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the Member of the applicant, representing the applicants. Mr President, please explain to us, because I did not get a specific answer at the meeting of the Education Committee, the aim of which is that you have increased the number of representatives of the curatorium in the competition committee that elects the head of the school. Why is that? What's the reason? Because we're accusing politicisation here, and I think we're right, because we're getting these signals from schools, from the press, as I've already said before. I want to ask: What is the purpose of this? Why? In my opinion, if we have a lot of competitions every year, then representatives of the supervisory authority are just so busy at the time that they do nothing else but sit in competition committees. As for the three members of such a committee, it is often the case that there is no one to work for. That's why I'm wondering what the point is, and I would ask you very much to answer me that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u202	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The proposed changes will have a positive impact on the process of electing a school head and are certainly expected by both teachers and many local authorities. These are based on substantive considerations, not on the political context that my previous speakers spoke about in particular from the Civic Platform. I have a question for the Minister: Is the Minister familiar with the following situation? Before 2015, the curator in the Świętokrzyskie Education Center was a prominent activist of the Civic Platform, while the deputy curator of a prominent... [[Voice from the room: PSL.]] The other way around. The curator was a PSL activist, and the vice-curator was a Civic Platform activist, who in 2011 ran from the Civic Platform's list to the Sejm and became your colleague from the Parliamentary benches. Were they political or apolitical? [[Applause]] And the question to the applicants: Is this bill... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u203	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. There's no envoy? Oh, here it is. Here it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u204	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The issue of the participation of a trade union representative in competitions in educational institutions is extremely important. It is a good thing that the legislators in Education Law also increased the representation of parents in these competition committees. But it would be great if these competitions were held as public hearings. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry provide for such an amendment of the Law of Education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The changes introduced in the Education Law concerning representation in the competition committee in practice have led to the politicisation of schools, unfortunately. In my opinion, it is the authority that runs the school, which is responsible for organising the school work, for its functioning, for its budget, that should have a significant voice. However, many, concrete examples - which I will not give from the speaker but which I have - show that for political reasons the competition is won by a person who is often not adapted to this function, and who loses to general amazement by a very good, proven school headmaster. [[There's no way someone very good is losing.]] These are not objective criteria. I have a question for the Ministry because I don't think the applicants are gonna give me an answer. Doesn't the Ministry see the need to change these rules? It's about representation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u207	Thank you. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u208	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There's more students in school. Not only are there the most of them, but they're also the most important ones. The voice of the students should also be heard, which is why we, as the Civic Platform, want to give them this opportunity. I submit an amendment to the Marshal, which is intended to enable the adult members of the student council to be part of the competition committee. You have talked so much about young people, listening to their voices, increasing their participation in public life, so we give these young people the right to vote in competition committees. Let them choose their principal too. Just a few weeks ago, you hosted a youth conference in the column room. We're just saying, "I'm checking." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u209	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister of Dream of Machalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the questions and problems outlined in this discussion. Indeed, many questions concerning the matter of this submission, which is a parliamentary submission, have not been raised. I will now refer to the questions, comments and the position of the Ministry in relation to the proposed amendment. I believe that, indeed, if the practice and case law are taken into account, the provisions concerning competitions and representation in trade union competitions should be clarified. I understand that today an amendment has been tabled, which is the result of the discussion that took place yesterday at the committee meeting. Of course, we'll look at this amendment. I would also like to say that I am following discussions with trade unions, not only with the Solidarity Group, but also with the CIS, and I have the impression that we will be positive about these comments and these conclusions that go in this direction, so that this representation is appropriate, so that there is no contradiction in practice, also resulting from different case law. That is why I want to express my openness when it comes to looking at all the amendments that have come in today. On the other hand, I will refer very briefly to some of the thoughts that were outlined yesterday at the committee meeting and today. I'd like to say again that we're talking about the principal's pageant. Let me remind you that 2009 was a limitation on the powers of the curator, a imbalance between the powers of the supervisory authority and the lead authority. This balance has already been restored. Here I want to refer to the fact that I think we all know what reality we are living in, and I don't think we can deny the fact that many self-governments, heads of government are representatives of an active ruling party. This is the case in the city where I live, where Mrs Czernow lives. So it's hard to say that if someone's a self-government officer and a party representative, they're apolitical, and if someone's a probation officer, they're political right now. Besides, I think we should start giving the right word: politics. This is a prudent concern for the common good. Let us take care of education, care about education, care about balance and that the best directors are actually appointed to be the proper representation and body that supervises quality, and the body that runs schools, trade unions, teachers' and parents' representations. It seems, and I am convinced, that these records which we have restored, and we are also modifying under the influence of the opinion of the social side, are going as far as possible in the right direction. I call on you to refrain from this negative concept of politics, because we are all really politicians and in the education committee, but also in the ministry we are creating a good educational policy. I suggest we create it together, not abuse it in the wrong sense of words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u211	Thank you very much. Now the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since several questions were addressed to applicants, I will try to answer them on their behalf. Firstly, the project had no intention to discriminate against any trade union on the selection of representatives to the competition committees selecting school heads and institutions, only to regulate the rules and to ensure that the will of the legislator expressed in the Education Law is equally and uniformly interpreted everywhere. We listened to the representatives of the ZNP, they had no doubts such as the Trade Union Forum, contrary to what you said, but talked about the need to clearly separate these federations from the Confederate ones. By listening to their demands, we have seriously changed the provisions on the emergence of trade union representation and this element has been included there. The second point at the committee meeting was that it should not interfere with the question of whether a trade union is active in a given school or whether it only covers the scope of its activities in a given community or district. This also applies in part to the question or suggestion of one of the Members. We have maintained the case law here, which clearly states: if a trade union organisation includes the scope of its activities also this school or this institution, it also has the right to send its representative to the competition committee, and in this case we do not change anything. The concerns of the forum about some discrimination in our view are unjustified. They, as in previous records, will have the right to select one representative and will do so according to their principles, we will no longer indicate to them on the legal path how this representative of theirs will emerge. ♪ Like this ♪ so we will ensure that each representative trade union has one representative. This will also stabilise the composition of competition committees in all competitions in the country, not so far, when sometimes the addition of another trade union representative has increased the number of representatives of both the pedagogical supervisory authority and the lead authority, which would further interfere with the work of the curatorium - following the voice of one of the Member States. The next element is the politicization of schools. I have already mentioned this in the committee, I will repeat it again today: the bill does not in any way affect other institutions, the environments that send their representatives to the competition committees, refers only to trade unions. So to clarify only these records, in my opinion and everyone who looks at it, does not cause politicisation of competition committees and the conduct of competitions themselves. However, you asked something else, whether the increase in the number of representatives of the pedagogical supervisory authority, which took place several months ago - not in this draft law, only a few months ago, when we amended the educational law very widely - is a politician. It may be asked whether the participation of the curator or the representative of the body leading the political contest, because if the mayor, the mayor, the governor or the president of the city is related to some political party and sends his representatives to the competition committee, it is necessary to ask whether his representatives are political or not. The state, as I understand it, suggests that never a government representative is political, whether the mayor, the mayor, the president is party or not. In our view, however, in many cases the mayors, mayors, city presidents, starosts, marshals with political connotation - no longer pointing out what - are also politically motivated. The second element, to which the State merely and exclusively draws attention, concerns the curator. Today you say that the representatives of the probation officer in the committee are political because they rule Law and Justice, while when the PO and PSL had their government, then I did not hear from you about situations or suggestions that the probation officer from the Platform or from the PSL is a political official and politically behaves at the meeting of the competition committee. [[But there were two of them.]] So please decide whether from your point of view the curator's representative is political or the curator's representative is political or not. We've increased the number, as the Minister said, from two to three. We want to make this clear. Once again, this was done several months ago, not in this bill. This was because we believe that the state must have a real impact on education policy and not just... [[It's not the state. It's the PiS who wants to influence.]] Mrs. Member! I tried not to interrupt you. Culture, please. This one is also valid in the Chamber, also during the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u213	Madam, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u214	Oh, that's right. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Once again, I ask you to calm down, calmly respond to the attempt of a substantive conversation, if you are able to do so. We thought that the curator would be the implementer of the state's education policy, because until now he had almost no influence on what was happening in schools. It was therefore necessary to ensure that the state which is the subject of supervision of school work also had a real impact on who is becoming a director. [[Today the state wants to influence the worldview and everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u215	Madam, I warn you, do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u216	Contrary to what you're suggesting, it's not the probation officer himself who chooses the principal of the school. It does not have a majority on the competition committee because the competition committee consists of several people and the curator has only three representatives. So that's what it is. 1/3 or even 1/4 of the entire representation, of the entire competition committee. So it's hard, I don't know how you can count on 1/4 of the school headmaster. This is ridiculous. Only in cooperation with the environment of teachers, parents, trade unions, and sometimes in agreement with the local government, when the votes agree, the school head is elected. I agree with you. These voices are falling from all sides. It is not always the choice of the director that everyone likes and does not always seem to be the optimal choice. For the time being, however, no other way has been found which would be completely objective and has always chosen the best candidates from among those who have applied for the competition procedure in question than the operation of the competition committee. By clearly answering several questions about whether we are politicising the school, I am clearly saying: this bill does not politicise the school. It regulates only the way the union representation is selected for the competition committee. To answer Mrs Michalek's question, first of all, thank you for this question, because it actually rained very often on the part of teachers. We, following these votes, have regulated this in such a way that, both when selecting candidates for the competition committee and when assessing in any way the extension of the director's or vice principal's work, there will be a secret vote. So the teachers, without fearing any restrictions from the management, will be able to freely express their will. I think that's what we really wanted, so that teachers can freely express their will, who might possibly represent them on the competition committee. Of course, we're going to look at those amendments that came in here. We'll probably decide tomorrow. Teachers and self-governments are waiting for this law to be implemented quickly, so that they can clearly select competition committees without any problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u217	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment is linked to two issues. The first is the introduction of secret ballots. It is a question of voting on the resolutions of the pedagogical board on matters relating to persons acting as head of the school or the opinion of candidates for such positions. In their explanatory memorandum, the applicants argue that there have been times when school heads put pressure on the pedagogical board and forced transparency of the vote, e.g. as regards the opinion on the extension of the term of office of the school principal. This led to a kind of intimidation of workers who, fearing for their positions or positions, voted as expected by the director. The new rules introduce the mandatory secrecy of voting in such cases, with the aim of free and objective decision-making by the members of the Board. We are able to accept this change because in our opinion it serves the good of the teaching staff. Even if the argument is a little out of line, it works according to the principle: the guarded Lord God protects. Another change proposed by the applicant is no longer so clear and obvious. This is to clarify the regulation contained in Article. 63. 14, concerning the participation of trade union representatives in the competition committee in the competition for the position of school head. The proposed new wording of the Article. 63 The Law of Education undoubtedly clarifies the question of the participation of representatives of the trade union organisations in the competition committee in the competition for the position of head of the school, but at the same time excludes from the committee one of the representative trade unions active in education, i.e. ZNP or Trade Union Forum. According to the article added. 63. 14a These associations will be obliged to appoint a joint representative for the composition of the competition committee. We therefore maintain and fully support the proposal presented by the Polish Teachers' Union. We express the need to supplement the wording in the paragraph. 14a by adding after the words "involved" in the same word. The amendment proposed by the NAP will enable one representative to be selected from individual representative organisations, not from a joint candidate. Our position will be expressed during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Education. One of the objectives of this draft law is to clarify the ambiguous provisions of the Act concerning the representation of trade union representatives in the competition committees electing the head of the school. In view of the doubts and situations that have arisen contrary to the intentions of the drafters of the Education Law Act, which were cited at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I consider this change to be beneficial and necessary. I also have no doubt that voting on matters relating to managers in schools should be mandatoryly secret. This will ensure that those taking part in it vote according to their conscience and views, not under the pressure and pressure of the person concerned. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u220	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws (Prints No 2480 and 2526). I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 7 May 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, print No 2480. The Commission of Justice, following its first reading on 8 May 2018 after a few hours of discussion, invites the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. In the course of the discussion, proposals were made for the rejection of the bill by representatives of two parliamentary clubs: the Civic Platform and the Modern Parliamentary Club. The requests for rejection of the bill did not obtain the required majority. It is worth noting that the law has been amended as a result of the legitimate suggestion of the Legislative Office, and some legislative and clarification changes have been made. As I said at the outset, the committee asks that the bill presented be passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u222	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Parliamentary draft law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The bill introduces several changes, previously expected by the opposition, among others. introduces a change that judicial assistants will be appointed, not by the Minister of Justice, but by the President of the Republic of Poland. These were expectations, and we listen to the voices of Poles and Poles above all, but if we believe that the opposition has a legitimate voice, we are also open and adopt solutions that seem to serve the cause and at the same time satisfy the opposition. The National Judicial Council will have the right to object to the appointment of assesors. Another solution proposed in the Act is to change the substance of the essential basis for an exceptional cassation complaint. Namely, earlier the proposal was in this way that the cassation complaint would be recognized in order to ensure the rule of law and social justice. Notwithstanding this, the other criteria must also be fulfilled, namely that the judgment infringes the principles or freedoms and rights of the human and the citizen set out in the Constitution, that the judgment grossly infringes the law by misinterpreting or misapplication thereof, and that there is an obvious contradiction between the substantive findings of the court and the content of the evidence collected. But as I said before, it is essential that compliance with the principle of a democratic rule of law, which implements the principle of social justice, is ensured. This is the main purpose of identifying an emergency complaint. The amendment also introduces such solutions that when judges of the Supreme Court who, due to their retirement age, are approaching the end of their career, may apply to the President for a further position. The amendment is based on the fact that the President will be obliged to consult the National Judicial Council before taking a decision on this matter. Another element introduced in this Act concerning an exceptional cassation complaint is the limitation of the number of entities which will be able to apply for a cassation complaint. Previously, there were a lot of these actors, and ultimately we felt that the most appropriate solution would be if only the Attorney General and the Ombudsman could bring a cassation complaint. It seems that this is meeting the expectations of the opposition, and it also seems that these solutions will serve to improve the quality of the law. I think that the situation is developing dynamically, and therefore the amendment of this law was necessary. As I said at the outset, Law and Justice are in favour of further proceding the Parliamentary bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Budek, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak. We welcome young people and teachers from Primary School 32 in Bydgoszcz. It's very nice to meet you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u225	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are dealing with the repair of the legal bubble which was adopted in the High House a few months ago. It's just that you can't fix another bubble, because the bubble will always be a bubble, and the majority of them have gotten used to it. A few months ago, we were assured by the mouths of representatives of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic, the author of this law, of the great advantages of the emergency complaint and of how millions of Polish citizens are waiting for this extraordinary remedy. And what did it turn out to be? Once again, it was a big mess. Once again, it turned out that the words given to the voters meant nothing to you. Today, it turned out that the person who co-authored these laws had just been detained by the CBA at the direction of the prosecution. I wonder whether this will always be the case if someone who does not like the current majority dares to write regulations, even for the President of the Republic, whether this type of work will be carried out towards him. Doesn't it turn out that someone who is now writing regulations, questions about referendums will be detained in this Polish-Polish war in the so-called camp. A united right hand. Ladies and gentlemen! You tricked the voters. You lied when you talked about the reform of the justice system. You lied when you talked about the reform of the Constitutional Tribunal. The only purpose of the changes in the Supreme Court is to expel about 40% from the Supreme Court. the most experienced, substantive and above all independent judges. You want to replace them with the people designated by the Party's National Judicial Council, so that the two new chambers will have people totally dependent on the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, the Member and the policy of one party. But you're doing all this for two reasons. First of all, the ruling in the Disciplinary Chamber should be made by people who will not go back to doing anything to remove unruly judges, independent judges, for whom the constitution and laws will be more important than the line of the only right party. And the other important thing. You've made changes to the Supreme Court to create a new chamber there, which is supposed to be a kind of safety valve when you lose the election, a chamber that you think is supposed to stop what is inevitable, which is your electoral failure. From this point on, I assure you, all these intentions are ruined. Fortunately, Polish judges are free, fortunately the judicial system has survived the period to which you refer so often, and in fact on which you follow. I am convinced that both the public in Europe and the Poles will not be fooled once again by those lies which gave rise to this amendment. This amendment doesn't fix anything. She's aggravating legal chaos. This amendment shows that propaganda, lying, manipulation were the only things that led to the submission of laws concerning the National Courts Council and the Supreme Court. You pretend before the European Commission that you are taking a step backwards, but in fact you are taking the next two steps forward in destroying the justice system in the stubbornness of Polish courts, but above all in making the Supreme Court dependent on party activists. There is nothing left but to explain to the public that there has been no reform, there is no reform and there will be no reform. Finally, I want to say one important sentence that I heard in Sanok from a gentleman who came to the meeting. That's what he said: the arguments haven't changed. In 1982, one of the prosecutors assisted in searching my house when the so-called. It's a paper. And this prosecutor said exactly what he said now from this Parliamentary Speaker: a Constitutional Constitution, but the law must be respected. He wanted to do it again, looking into the eyes, and saying that you don't forget things like that. This person [[♪ The bell ♪]] She said that the constitution would be the most important, even if for some this constitution originated from the Polish People's Republic. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u226	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Member of the Commission, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The microphone is not working.]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u227	Mr. Marshal, maybe one more time, 'cause I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u228	It's working, it's working.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current law adopted by the Sejm on 8 December 2017 entered into force on 3 April 2018. It was subsequently amended by the Sejm on 12 April 2018. It hasn't been a month, and today we have another amendment. Is that how you make a good law? This law does not improve anything, but adds to the chaos around the Supreme Court, because there will be no narrowing of the grounds for bringing an emergency complaint, as the designers have said, but to increasing the discretion of the court examining the complaint as to whether the conditions for its admissibility have been met. Why will there be an increase in the scope of the conditions? Well, that's because it's art. The 7th Constitution concerns legalism, i.e. the principles of the rule of law and Article. 2 refers to the principles of the democratic rule of law and is therefore broader. There is a question about the role of the Supreme Court in ruling in cases brought against it. There is a risk that the Supreme Court, when recognizing an emergency complaint, will first judge not so much the settled decision as the law which was the basis for its adoption. At that time, it will be possible to establish that we are dealing with a model derived from a democratic rule of law that implements the principle of social justice. Thus, the amendment of the condition may result in a precedent in the form of a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal in order to take account of the action, and therefore the admissibility of an emergency action will be decided by a de facto body other than the Supreme Court. The draft contains a proposal that, when the contested decision had irreparable legal effects, in particular if five years had elapsed since the judgment under appeal was finalized, and if the annulment of the decision would infringe the international obligations of Poland, the Supreme Court is limited to the determination of the contested judgment in breach of the law and the circumstances for which it issued such a decision, unless the principles or freedoms and rights of the person and of the citizen set out in the Constitution give rise to the decision and therefore to the repeal of the judgment under appeal. Firstly, it should be pointed out that it is incomprehensible to repeal the prohibition of an emergency complaint in cases of criminal offences and tax offences, secondly, the provision is extremely vague. If its purpose was to derogate from the form of a decision by repealing the judgment under appeal, which is to justify irreparable legal effects, including in particular the expiry of 5 years, the introduction in the final part of the provision allowing for a derogation from that rule is simply nullifying. As regards the declared objective in the form of a limitation of the circle of entities entitled to lodge an emergency complaint, it should be pointed out that it refers only to cases whose judgment was valid after 17 October 1997 and before 3 April 2018, because nothing changes after that date. There is no justification for this differentiation, and that means inequality towards the law. A 5-person membership of the Supreme Court shall be introduced when the Supreme Court has ruled in the course of the proceedings. But he could rule not only on substantive matters, but also on formal issues. Therefore, why increase the composition? It will affect the economics of the proceedings. According to the project, because of course, gentlemen, this project does not only apply to the Supreme Court, but also to the National Judicial Council, it will be the President who will appoint the assessors. However, it should be borne in mind that, with this provision, the appointment will require countersignation by the President of the Council of Ministers. The Constitution speaks only of the appointment of judges in the President's prerogatives, and in this project it is written that these are the persons who perform the duties of Judge. There's no judge to rehearse. In legal matters, such a phrase does not exist. ♪ It's giving birth ♪ It's a danger, by the way. Imagine that the President of the Council of Ministers will not support these candidates at all. Will we then have another argument on the line of the President-President of the Council of Ministers? We've already had a dispute between the President and the Minister of National Defence. It could cause such a danger. This law does not bring any positive changes, but, on the contrary, makes it even more complicated and more difficult, introduces inequality towards the law. Modern maintains the motion to reject this project, because it does not serve...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u230	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u231	...good law, and hence the handwriting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u232	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws contained in prints No. 2480 and 2562. It is extremely nice that this project you want to give more autonomy to the judicial assessors. Indeed, their independence and independence have been reconciled by the way they have been appointed. Once appropriate, the Minister of Justice will not have the chance to appoint any judicial applicants to serve as an assessor. The problem, however, is something else, ladies and gentlemen. The point is that they will be appointed at the request of the National Judicial Council, the composition of which has been formed in the assessment of many who are not in conformity with the existing constitution, and not in the evaluation of politicians, but of experts who have been involved in this area for years. We're gonna face this as a result, and you're gonna have to be aware of that too, with doubts as to whether the court's assessors are really them. And it is not because of the qualities of these persons or the mode of their appointment that I would like to point out from this point of view, but because of the mode of their appointment and the composition of the body which will ask for their appointment. That's the question. The same doubts will apply to newly appointed judges. Another element discussed in the bill is the package of amendments to the emergency complaint. The scope of the case and the temporal scope of the emergency action have not been changed, from eight to two, but the number of entities through which the action can be brought to the Supreme Court within 3 years of the validity of the law. Since 1997, i.e. since the current constitution, several hundred million cases have been brought to the Polish courts. It's not a slip of the tongue. You've heard that number well. The Supreme Court recognizes between 10 and 12 thousand on average. cases per year, maintaining the average time for the case to be dealt with until the judgment is delivered at the level of 7 months. If he comes to this court about 100,000. cases, apart from other cassation and cassation complaints, are judges of the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs, a chamber which has not even been established yet, will recognize them for decades. It's also worth thinking about today. How it works today The Constitutional Tribunal, we already know, twice as slowly, because it is an organ affected by your reform. An emergency complaint should concern only criminal matters and not proceedings of all possible types. In the case of civil and economic matters, it is a fight for legal trade. The certainty of legal trading in Poland, also in the opinion of many, is on the line. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, only in the first quarter of this year a considerable sum of PLN 150 billion evaporated from the Warsaw Stock Exchange. An instrument of social justice badly chosen may not ensure justice, nor the speed of its execution, nor increase our economic security. In Poland, the so-called. a narrow model of constitutional complaint, i.e. only the provision of the law on the basis of which the judgment was given, but not the very judgment. An emergency complaint after all these changes actually introduces the next type of constitutional complaint, this time in a broad model, which occurs e.g. in Germany. This is not only against our constitution, but will also create problems with the subsidiarity principle required by Article. 35 The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which states that the European Court of Human Rights can only deal with the matter once all the remedies provided for by internal law have been exhausted. PSL-UED does not accept such legislative powdering as a prescription for improving the rule of law in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this bill cannot count on our support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u234	Thank you very much. Nine ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, is the first question to be asked. There's no envoy. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Platform Club. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to address my question to the representative of Mr Ast's applicants, whom I would ask him to focus on hearing the questions, because the changes to the Supreme Court Act are quite important. What happened, sir, that, within such a short time after the applicant's law came into force, he has changed his position on the cassation complaint dramatically? A drastic reduction in the number of entities entitled to lodge an emergency complaint will cause huge problems, and in principle will reduce the possibility for Poles to submit exceptional complaints in a very significant way. Is that what this is about? Why the change? What is it justified? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u236	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At present, as well as the emergency complaint and assailants proposed by you, the legislation is a mere legal bubble that is more suitable for basketball than for handling in this House. But what can we expect from a party that has accustomed us to mindlessly pushing unconstitutional laws? You are thus admitting to adopting another legal bubble, which is the previous law on the Supreme Court. This project will not change the situation of the justice system, whose stubbornness and devastation will continue. Even recently, you and the president talked to Poles about the need for an emergency complaint, after which you narrow down the range of entities with the possibility of bringing it, so that, for example. Mr Zbigniew Ziobro will decide to apply this law. This law also lacks specific provisions on the situation of assesors. You want to fix the justice system? [[♪ The bell ♪]] All you have to do is swear three legal judges of the TK, depoliticize the KRS, withdraw the party nominations... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u238	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a brief question - the question that concerns the introduction of a solution restricting the right to lodge an emergency complaint only to two bodies, namely the Attorney General and the Ombudsman. I understand that giving plenipotence to too many authorities - on the contrary, maybe just, so to speak, mess up, while limiting to two bodies really highlights the uniqueness of the solution, which is an emergency complaint. But I have a question: What were you saying that you chose these two, the Attorney General and the Ombudsman from among the eight? What was the dictation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u240	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a brief question for the Member of the applicant. Why is the proposal proposed to change the basic wording of the ground for an exceptional cassation complaint? Why is the previous sound wrong, why are we changing it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u242	Thank you very much. Marshal Barbara Dolniak, please, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President, this amendment concerns only decisions that have been adopted between October 1997 and April 2018. Then no longer, then all the entities that were, can bring back this complaint on behalf of the citizens. I therefore have a question about how you considered it and assessed it, since by 3 April 2018 it is 20 years old when it will be possible to bring complaints... And here it works for the future, and we have all the actors, so a wide range of bodies that can be asked to file this complaint. In 20 years' time, this has brought only two actors, and we know that the Ombudsman has many other responsibilities. Therefore, my question is precisely about justification and motivation, including with regard to technical possibilities. And the second thing I wanted to ask you. In the explanatory memorandum, you quote that now there will be a narrowing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the reasons, but unfortunately the content of the legislation results in a direct extension of them. So why don't you just justify it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u244	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law only applies for a few weeks. I have a question about how many of these emergency complaints have already been filed, because the media reports show that there is a lot. Of course, narrowing it down to two entities will complicate the matter. As far as the Attorney General is concerned, of course I have no concern, because the Attorney General will not be analyzing, but according to his own will he will judge, politically most likely. On the other hand, as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, the ombudsman whose funding you have taken away is an incredible amount of work. So the question is, how do you imagine that? How will the Ombudsman be able to carry out these tasks? Unless you're trying to prove that he can't rewrite what's going to affect him, and of course he needs to be replaced. The question is, is this case really so politically set up again, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to eliminate the role of spokesperson. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u246	Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u247	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr Piotrowicz said that this law meets the expectations of the opposition. I think we've been in other committees for a year, I think Krystyna Pawłowicz was effectively shouting at us with her invectives. We demand that you finally start obeying the Constitution. As far as the Supreme Court Act is concerned, it's just a legal piece of shit. And all your laws on justice are legal. You're just bringing us closer to Turkey or Russia. You want to control everyone in the courts. You want only party activists to be in court, so that there's a prosecutor, a judge, and even a lawyer, because even a lawyer you want to discipline. You want to set up the Supreme Court president and smack her with the president of the quasi-second Supreme Court, the first president of the Disciplinary Chamber. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You will not blind the European Commission... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it your intention to postpone the discussion with the European Commission until 3 July when you remove 40% of the Supreme Court judges? Do you really think that no one will realize that this law is not restoring the independence of the justice system in any way? Do you think the EU institutions are gonna let themselves be blinded by this bill? You are putting the future of EU funds on the line for Poland. With the money of the citizens, you simply want to pay for the party control of the courts. We citizens want a strong Poland at the heart of a united Europe. So on the 12th of May we will show together, [[Applause]] that Poland's place is at the heart of a united Europe, among the rule of law, democratic countries, among European countries. And that's why I want you to meet me next Saturday at hours. 12 at the de Gaulle roundabout in Warsaw on the march of freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u250	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u251	Ladies and gentlemen! There was a movie "The Endless Story," and we are dealing with this series, which PiS is funding to Polish and Polish people in relation to the justice system. Even recently, the presidential project has been adopted, and today there are further amendments, there is another game of cat and mouse with the European Commission. On the other hand, this project also shows total hypocrisy, as well as the fact that this narrative used by the President's Office was only a completely false narrative, because today you restrict the institution of emergency complaint, an institution to which we had serious reservations that it could pose a threat to the certainty of legal trading, and you said that in any case any ruling could be the subject of such an emergency complaint in the Supreme Court. Today, you narrow this matter down to strictly systemic matters. But in these very political cases, there will also be formations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jury. And this is a serious danger to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the validity of these judgments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u252	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws (Prints No 2480 and 2526). The bill submitted concerns the introduction of amendments to four laws, which in Polish legislation are crucial for the proper functioning of the justice system. We are talking here about the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the National Judicial Council, the Law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the recently passed Law on the Supreme Court. The amendments to the first three laws are basically a revision of the procedure for the appointment of judicial assistants. The President of the Republic of Poland shall appoint the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the National Judicial Council for an indefinite period, as proposed by the applicants. In the current legal state, the Minister of Justice has the competence to appoint the assistants. In view of the systemic position of the head of the State, applicants have reformed the procedure for appointment of assesors also as regards the possibility for the National Courts to object to individual candidates for these posts. Such an objection will be possible at the stage of the procedure prior to the appointment of the President, not as it has been now, after the appointment of the Minister of Justice has been made. This change should be assessed positively, in particular with last year's attention, which is particularly detrimental to the appointed assessors to the exercise of this power by the National Judicial Council of the previous term of office. As regards the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court, applicants propose the reform introduced by the Act of 8 December 2017 of the institution of emergency complaint. First of all, the Article has been amended. 89 indicating the reasons for the complaint. In line with the proposed wording, an emergency complaint can be lodged where this is necessary to ensure compliance with the principle of a democratic rule of law that implements the principle of social justice, which is the general principle of the system described in Article. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In the current wording, the legislator has used the premise of the need to ensure the rule of law and social justice, which - with which it is difficult to argue - due to the lack of solidity in Polish Judaism and doctrine could cause serious interpretation difficulties for the Supreme Court. Another significant change in the scope of the emergency complaint concerns the limitation of the circle of entities empowered to lodge an emergency complaint against decisions which have become valid before the entry into force of the draft law in question. On the basis of the added provision of Article. 115 § 1a From such judgments, an emergency complaint will be granted only to the Prosecutor-General and to the Ombudsman. It is worth noting that in other cases, i.e. with regard to final decisions taken after the entry into force of this proposal, the other bodies listed in Article will have the power to lodge a complaint as well as so far. 89 § 2 Act on SN, i.e. President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, spokesperson for the rights of the child, spokesperson for the rights of the patient, chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, financial spokesman and President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The amendment also clarifies the possible decisions of the Supreme Court in situations where the contested action caused irreparable legal effects, but it has not been five years since its validity, or if the annulment of the decision would violate the international obligations of the Republic of Poland. The proposed draft amendment to the Act on the Supreme Court also provides for changes in the procedure of the President of the Republic of Poland's consent to the further occupation by the judge of the Supreme Court after the age of 65. As proposed by the applicants, the President is required to consult the National Judicial Council, which shall forward this opinion within 30 days of the President's request to present that opinion. In drawing up an opinion, the National Judicial Council shall take into account the same conditions as in the similar procedure concerning the general judiciary, i.e. an interest in justice or an important social interest. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project submitted as a whole should be assessed positively. It is hoped that no changes to the Supreme Court Act will be necessary for a longer period. We must finally allow this law to function so as to be able to really assess whether it has fulfilled its most important objectives and objectives. Once again, I would like to point out that the process of changing the justice system has not been completed. In addition to the changes that we have been working on at the current Sejm meeting, there is a need to improve procedures that affect the speed of proceedings. This refers in particular to civil procedure, but also to matters relating to economic law, labour law or criminal procedure. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice is working on the reform of civil and criminal procedures. We look forward to the final results of this work in the form of ready-made legislative proposals. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u254	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law, I propose that this request be settled in the voting block without reference to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: What about the answers?]] We proceed with the examination of items 22 and 23 of the agenda: 22. First reading of the government draft Law on Higher Education and Science (Print No 2446). 23. First reading of the government draft law Provisions introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science (Print No 2447). I would like to ask the Minister for Science and Higher Education, Mr Jarosław Gowin, to provide a justification for the draft laws contained in prints 2446 and 2447. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is an important moment for the whole academic world in Poland, because the final phase of a unique not only Poland, but also the whole European Union's process of dialogue between the government and the academic community, the dialogue which I believe will be the final one - the adoption of what has been called a constitution for science, the new law in a systematic way that regulates the functioning of Polish universities or scientific institutes. When in autumn 2015 the government included the camp of the United Right, Polish universities were in the implementation phase of the previous, adopted in 2014, another, nth in a row, revision of the Law on Higher Education. In the academic world, it was common to believe that any subsequent amendment only deepens chaos, leads to the fact that the document, the content of the law becomes in many respects illegible even to the authors of these changes. In short, it was common in the academic community to expect that we would not once again correct the document as many times as it had already been amended, but to start working on a new law. This is also the decision I made in autumn 2015 and I immediately announced that the work on this law will be conducted through dialogue with all interested professional groups: from outstanding scientists, through young capable doctors, doctoral students, students, administrative staff at the university. The starting point of this law was the competition, within which we selected three teams, teams consisting of representatives of academic circles, teams which prepared three competitive concepts of detailed assumptions for the law. From the beginning, we wanted to collide with each other various arguments, different points of view and try to find a golden center between them. In parallel to the work of these teams, we launched a series of dozens of great conferences, but also dozens of different kinds of symposiums and discussions, and the culmination of this process of dialogue on the new shape of the law was the National Congress of Science, which took place in September 2017 in Krakow. I would like to thank everyone very warmly - many thousands of scientists, doctoral students, students, university administrators who took part in this unique process of dialogue, a unique process of seeking new legal solutions. I would like to say that this uniqueness of the way to investigate the new law appreciates very many critics, the vast majority of the critics of the final solutions. This uniqueness was also recognised by the European Commission. I probably belong in this Chamber to those who, rather than to a greater extent, attach importance to the position of the European Commission, but I would like to say that the European Commission has repeatedly put this process of creating a constitution for science as a model for all EU countries with all kinds of major systemic changes, and that there is such a major systemic change in the case of a constitution for science. As I went to work on the bill, from the beginning I said that we were betting on a few vectors. The first and the basic is the vector. increase the autonomy of universities. In the Polish academic world, among Polish scientists, didactics, students have huge potential, which is often looped with too detailed regulations, too narrow scope of academic freedom. A measurable example of this expansion of autonomy is the volume of the new law. Firstly, it is a single law that replaces the four existing ones. Secondly, the overall volume of legislation is twice as low as the number of rules currently in force. A few years ago, I proposed to introduce into the Polish legislative system a principle which was introduced in some European countries at the time, led by the United Kingdom: they in, they out, means to stop this endless expansion of bureaucratic regulation by applying the principle that if one new rule is to be introduced, it is at least one of the previous ones with a similar scope - out. Since then, many years have passed, at that time the United Kingdom has introduced a different rule: they in, two outs, to bring into force one new rule, namely: they in, are at least two of the previous ones - outs. I would like to say that the constitution for science fully meets this principle. The number of regulations will be halved, more than half the number of regulations will be reduced. This is the measurable space to increase academic autonomy. A much larger area of decision-making will now be shifted from law and regulation to external acts of universities, i.e. above all statutes. An example of this increased autonomy and, at the same time, some of the misunderstandings that accompany the Act is the issue of internal structure. As you know, under the law today all Polish universities must divide into faculties. Meanwhile, we all know great universities in different regions of the world that do not divide into departments. They share, for example. For schools, they're divided into colleges. In short, the internal structure of the best universities in the world is very diverse. And with us, there's one shamel, that's a post-peerelic remnant. The new law gives universities autonomy in terms of how they will define their internal structure: whether they will divide into departments, so far, probably the vast majority of universities will choose such a path, or decide to divide into schools, colleges or adopt mixed structures. This solution, as I mentioned, is linked to a misunderstanding, namely that there was a charge that the law would remove departments from the top. Nothing more wrong. The Act removes only the compulsion to structure itself into departments, and thus significantly extends the freedom of the academic community, which itself will determine, by adopting the statute, what this internal organisation is to look like. Another example of such a very measurable and very important extension of autonomy for universities is the change in the model of university funding. At the moment, they're funded by grants, so each zloty is top-down by the ministry. Universities have their hands tied when it comes to making the most effective use of these budgetary resources. In the new law, we replace the grant with a subsidy, so it is the university that receives a certain amount of money from the state budget that will decide how to use it. Increasing the autonomy of universities must be more responsible. Where there is greater freedom, there must be greater responsibility. In other words, we need to change the model of management of Polish universities. It is no secret that the current model is extremely inefficient. In the new law, we want to significantly increase the powers of single organs, i.e. above all, the rector. As in the government, it is important that the Prime Minister has a strong position, as should the real leader, the real leader, the leader with not only the authority of the law, but above all the authority of democratic elections, because the rectors in Poland are elected by the academic community. However, if we are to increase the competence of the rector, then it is necessary to create a body that will monitor the daily management of the university. This is one of the more controversial elements of this law, namely the establishment of a new body, which is the university council. I would like to draw the attention of those of you who may share the concern that the establishment of a council in some way violates the autonomy of universities, that such councils work successfully in more and more European Union countries, and one of the recommendations of the European Commission to Polish universities was the introduction of these advices. Councils will be 100% elected by the academic community. That I would like to emphasise very strongly: 100%. There is no space for external interference, in particular political interference. One member of the board will be elected from among themselves by students - this will be the chairman of the student council - the other will be elected by the Senate. In fact, the Law imposes only one limitation on the choice of council members. More than half of the board members must be non-university members. Why would you do that? Well, the council is an organ that has two very important missions. Firstly, as I mentioned, it is to monitor the work of the university authorities, and secondly, it is to be a transmission belt between the university and the socio-economic environment, in short, between the university and our society and Poles. Universities must not succumb to the temptation to be an ivory tower, universities should serve society. I was a scholar at Cambridge University, and when I got there, I saw the motto of this college. This motto does not apply to the fact that, I do not know, to seek the truth or even to serve the interests of professors or the interests of the academic community. The motto is to serve the society, serve society. For this reason there are all universities, including Polish universities, and certainly each of these universities is trying to serve the public, but thanks to the daily presence of external representatives at universities this dialogue between universities and society will certainly be better. The head body of the university - I want to emphasize this very strongly - remains neither the rector nor the council. Moreover, the Council will not have any powers in terms of research or education, which is the essence of each university's mission. This chief organ will remain the Senate. The Senate, among others. he will adopt the statutes of the university, i.e. something like the constitution of the university, he will adopt the rules of study, he will give an opinion on the development strategy. In short, it will deal with everything that I have just mentioned and what is part of the university's mission, i.e. the training of students at the highest level and the conduct of research at a competitive level vis-à-vis the best countries in Europe. We certainly can afford this, especially in terms of intellectual potential, but I believe that in time, soon, also in terms of material, financial potential. I would also like to say that when choosing the rector, we also retained this principle of internal autonomy and the principle of collegiality. The Rector can be chosen in two ways. One is foreseen [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the present law, although it has never been applied. I mean, the way of the contest. I understand Mr. Marshal will give me a little more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u256	A minute, I'm sure. Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education: Excuse me? [[One minute.]] A minute, I'm sure. Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education: One minute. This could be a little harder. I'll be brief on that. The primary way of choosing the rector will be through the electoral college. Ladies and gentlemen, Polish universities must break out of the trap of average growth. The fact that we educate students, young, highly capable generation of Poles at an average level, that we conduct research at an average level, all this causes that every year there is national drama, emigration, leaving usually without the return of the most talented seniors, the most talented students, the most talented young scientists. To prevent this, we want to implement the long-standing request, at least part of the academic community, a significant part of the academic community, i.e. to select a group of so-called. research universities, universities that will compete in terms of education and research levels with the best universities in Europe. I stress once again that this is the most important objective of this law: to prevent the brain drain and to prevent the emigration of the future, or rather of the future national elite. But it is just as important as identifying those universities that will compete with the best in Europe - and I stress that it is equally important - that all universities raise their level. This law is consistently infiltrated by the spirit of the principle of sustainable development. In the law, especially in its final version, which was created after numerous consultations with smaller, medium-sized universities, sometimes called regional universities, we have instruments to support these universities. One of these instruments is the possibility of joining federations, another is the competition for regional initiatives of excellence, because in these regional universities are islands of scientific excellence, which will now be supported by special grants. And professional universities, I mean state higher vocational schools, which play a very important cultural and elite role in local environments, will take part in the competition, a dydactic initiative of excellence. I would also like to say that this competition has already been held this year. The key element, another of the key elements of the law, is the consistent increase in the level of PhDs and habilitation. As regards the new model of doctoral training, it was developed in close cooperation with the National Representation of PhD students. It seems to me, I can say immodestly, that this is the element of the law, which is widely praised: instead of narrowly specialized doctoral studies - interdisciplinary doctoral schools, decisively raising the requirements for doctoral students, but at the same time introducing a universal scholarship system. At the same time, I would like to say that the problem faced by Polish universities and Polish science for many years, i.e. the problem of reducing the quality of PhDs and habilitation, requires certain decisive actions. That's why we're changing the rules of granting doctoral or habilitation rights. In fact, today there is a purely quantitative criterion, namely the number of independent academics - professors or habilitated doctors - employed at a given university. Unfortunately, this results in the fact that the habilitation is often given by academic centres, departments or institutes in which research has not been carried out for a long time, departments which receive the lowest category, category C, in the context of the once every four years of categorization, i.e. evaluation of scientific achievements. Therefore, in order to improve the quality of PhDs and the quality of habilitation, we want to link the right to confer degrees with the scientific category, i.e. with the quality of scientific research grown in a given discipline at a given university. I also want to say that after a long discussion... Prime Minister, please conclude. Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education: Excuse me? I've already added you five minutes. Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education: Yeah, well, I'll be on my way to the finals. I would like to say that, after a long discussion, we have decided to leave the habilitation behind, but we are putting up with its obligation. The law is praised by students - it was supported by, among others. Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland - for better protection of students' rights. However, I would like to say that the current legal arrangements in this respect are largely satisfactory and wherever the current rules work, we have followed the principle of continuity so as not to change something for the change itself. Finally, I want to say something very important about the financial housing. For this reform to succeed, there must be an increase in spending on science and higher education. It is also a condition for success of the main plan of our government, i.e. Our government, after dealing with many, sometimes very dramatic social needs, decided that in the next year's budget there would be 700 million more to learn... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...that he will transfer PLN 3 billion of State Treasury bonds to the distribution between universities, that he will also introduce a permanent algorithm for the annual increase in spending on science. I would like this algorithm to be steeper, but this is still to be discussed by your fellow Members. There are calls from the academic community... Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education: I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this law has been created so far in the course of the dialogue. I would like to thank all those who participated in this dialogue, including the critics, those who put forward sound, well-thought-out arguments. I believe that in such an atmosphere of substantive reflection we will work on this law also in the Seym and in the Senate. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the Circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u257	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to government draft law on higher education and science, in print No 2446, and the Law on Higher Education and Science, in print No 2447. The projects submitted aim at consolidating, standardising and simplifying basic legislation in the field of higher education and science. For the sake of clarity, it is important that the provisions laid down in the various laws so far are contained in a single legal act. The draft Law, which introduces the Law on Higher Education and Science, is a consequence of new regulations and aims to implement them effectively and efficiently. The aim of the reform of higher education and science including changes in the functioning of the system, management, financing and evaluation of the quality and activities of universities are: systemic problems in the field of higher education and science, their negative impact on the quality of research carried out by Polish universities and scientific institutions, the level of education of students and PhD students, and the lack of focus on funding rules, evaluation of scientific activities and career development on the achievement of scientific excellence. In a group of key problems affecting higher education and science in Poland, alongside the level of funding, there are examples of flawed principles of organisation and system of universities, which limit the efficient management, mismatch of the structure of the higher education system to social and economic challenges, limited financial autonomy of universities, unsatisfactory quality of higher education, insufficient level of matching of education to the needs of the socio-economic environment. For example, in the Human Capital Balance Study conducted in 2009 and 2014, under high youth unemployment conditions, more than 3/4 employers pointed out that there was no possibility of finding workers with the right competences. Another problem is the low effectiveness of doctoral training. In the information on the results of NIK's audit of January 2016 in the field of doctoral education, we find the conclusion that these studies are not a fully effective way of training researchers. Studies are being massaged, especially in social sciences and humanities. Although the number of post-2008 PhD students has increased significantly, as nearly 1/3 and in the case of stationary doctoral studies by 2/3, the average number of doctoral jobs defended is barely more than 40%. , and the number of doctoral degrees awarded remains constant at 6,000. per year. If Poland takes the tenth place among the 33 Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, according to the indicator of their completion - already fourth place from the end. The Supreme Audit Chamber also expressed doubts about the quality and effectiveness of teaching in doctoral studies due to their easy availability and mass training of PhD students, some of which are not prepared to start a scientific career. Of the 261 students studied by NIK, only 108 from 2013 and 2014, or approximately 41%. He's got a doctor's degree. Another identified problem of higher education and science is the system of degrees and titles which inhibits the pursuit of scientific excellence and the conduct of interdisciplinary research. In 2012, the number of young researchers systematically decreased. In the October 2017 assessment of NIK, this is due to inadequate motivational mechanisms, the recruitment of researchers mainly in connection with teaching work and the absence of certain minimum requirements for candidates to the degree of habilitation. Between 2012 and 2016, the number of academics with a doctoral degree and without a doctor's degree decreased by nearly 6%. They also decreased their participation in the number of all scientific workers. Another problem is the low level of relevance of research results conducted in Poland in world science, including the low level of internationalisation of Polish science. For example, Poland's net contribution to the programme in 2014 and 2016 in the EU research programme Horizon 2020 has exceeded the resulting funds by more than PLN 2 billion. Among the most important changes relating to the provisions of the Law to the diagnosed and presented problems are changes in the rules on the organisation of the institution and the relationship between its bodies, changes in the structure of the higher education system, changes in the financing rules of the higher education and science system, changes in the quality and relevance of higher education, the introduction of a new model of doctoral training and the application for a doctoral degree, changes in the classification of scientific and artistic disciplines and the system of degrees and titles and, finally, changes in the principles of evaluation of the quality of scientific activities. The proposed law provides for the regulation of the minimum salary of the assistant, assistant, professor and professor, the adjustment of the hourly salary of teaching and research and teaching staff, as well as the increase of the salaries of academic teachers and their dependence on the average salary in the economy. The problem of decommunization of Polish universities is an important issue that has long been waiting for a solution. After the end of World War II, universities were not neutral, strictly reserved for learning the field of activity, but became an important element of the communism and vassalization of the Polish state. Higher education requires a moral rebirth in this area. The Act submitted provides for the settlement of the academic environment with the period of the Polish People's Republic. Those who have worked in or cooperated with the PRL security bodies will not be allowed to sit in the higher education institutions or representative institutions. According to the POL-on register of higher education institutions, the project affects 398 universities, including 260 non-public universities. The law contains solutions most frequently advocated by experts and academic community. It responds to identified problems, to the need to improve the quality of education and research. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Science and higher education obligations and their impact on the social and economic development of Poland are described in detail in the Responsible Development Strategy for 2020 (with a view to 2030) adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2017. The implementation of the objectives of the strategy requires changes in the higher education system and its reform has been qualified as a group of key projects. The proposed law is a tool to implement one of the priority objectives of the Responsible Development Strategy, which is to improve the quality of human and social capital, among others. by reaching the value of R &amp; D expenditure of 1,7% GDP by 2020 and up to 2.5% GDP in 2030 Systemic changes in the area of organisation, education and funding rules for higher education are needed and undisputed and the projects submitted contain interesting solutions. Various voices and opinions of higher education and science environments shall be covered with regard to the proposals put forward. We want to listen to them and address them. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice directs the draft laws presented to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on draft laws on higher education and science law and regulations implementing the Law on higher education and science. The law on higher education and science is an act of major importance not only for the functioning of higher education and science, but also for the development of the country, containing important and extensive legal regulations. However, there is no doubt that a well-functioning legal framework in this area should be accompanied by a significant increase in spending on higher education and science. Without it, even the best legal solutions will not produce the expected results. Very often, our universities and research institutions are accused of being low in various rankings. However, if we compare expenditures on our education and on our science, it will turn out that the effectiveness of these expenditures is at least decent. If e.g. We're going to put together the research and the number of patents, and it's going to turn out that we're not very far off in these sets. The bill was created as a result of relatively long-term work by various bodies: three teams prepared preliminary projects, a team was set up to support the Minister directly, a series of conferences devoted to the various spheres of higher education and science functioning. The project was presented by the Minister of Science and Higher Education himself during the National Science Congress. The project has gained acceptance of parts of the environment, although it must be stressed that numerous votes are, however, negatively evaluating the reforms. A number of solutions are positively assessed, including: harmonisation of the funding stream of universities. Here I agree with the Minister that it strengthens autonomy. The scholarship system for PhD students, doctoral leave, studies and a new idea are also highly assessed. You can also appreciate the withdrawal from some bad solutions, such as: the form of establishment of the university. I have no doubt that it should be a statutory form. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the project we read that the university is autonomous on the principles set out in the Act. It is interesting why the sound of the current one, which I would like to recall, has been abandoned. Today's provision is as follows: The University is autonomous in all areas of its activities on the basis of the principles set out in the Act. In the light of the rules contained in the project, the implementation of the principle of autonomy of universities raises doubts. In an open letter of professors of Polish scientific centres to parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland, concerns are expressed, and even the belief that the law will eliminate the autonomy of universities and that there will be liquidation of academic self-government and the threat of authoritarianism. A great deal of concern from this point of view arises from the project, alongside the existing bodies of public universities, i.e. the rector and senate, the university council. According to art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the university board consists of 6 or 8 persons appointed by the Senate and the head of the student council, with more than 50% of the university board members. The Council is to ensure appropriate contact with the environment. This must certainly be assessed positively, also according to today's wording on monitoring financial economy, management, but the university board has a very broad competence beyond what I have already indicated. Her tasks include: the choice of the rector or the appointment of candidates for the rector after the Senate's opinion. And here we can say that the university council in the proposed composition is a waiver of the principle of autonomy of the university, even if we assume that it is elected by the Senate. Against the background of this regulation, there may be a situation that the rector of the university will be a person imposed on the academic community, that it will be decided by non-members of this community. After all, autonomy means the right of the collective to settle their internal affairs. Serious concerns about the functioning of the university council are formulated in the open letter of professors of Polish scientific centres already quoted by me. Here it is indicated that it will operate in Poland under conditions which differ from European standards of democracy and the rule of law. On this basis, concerns are expressed in this letter. There is no doubt that the university council should not have the choice of the rector. The appointment of candidates for the rector could take place, but only if they are accepted by the Senate, not only by opinions. The Act introduces a far-reaching freedom, including in the case of public universities, in shaping the internal organizational structure of universities. Many doubts are raised as to whether such a break-up with our academic tradition will promote the smooth management of public universities. It seems that the maintenance of basic organisational units with deans and faculty councils is justified. We would not then have a controversial solution giving the senate the power to grant degrees. You could imagine regulation in this way: regulation is traditional, but there is a rule that allows for derogations. It's not a good idea for a university professor after a doctorate for teaching. Abolition of the requirement of habilitation and the possibility of becoming a professor on the basis of teaching achievements can lead to the maintenance of weaker or weak staff at universities. Current solutions for spending on higher education and science are much less favourable than in previous versions of the law. I'm looking at how much time I have left.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u260	20 seconds, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u261	Well, in that case, I will present the remaining assessments and proposals in the course of further legislative work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the Law on Higher Education and Science. Undoubtedly, the construction of such a project took place through quite a wide public consultation. This is praised by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education on their websites, recalling fragments of letters of support for the introduced law, and these are, of course, fragments of letters specifically selected. However, it must be said that the law in this form does not solve the problems of Polish science and Polish education, and in many cases generates them. The biggest myth of this legislation is that this law is supposed to deregulate, decentralize Polish science. It's a myth. After all, this is not a deregulation, that instead of the four existing laws, let's assume that 30 pages each have one law with 120 pages, which regulates all areas of scientific life. The second great myth presented as an argument in exchange for the system of science and higher education is the wrong spending of money and the lack of Polish universities in prestigious rankings. The second point is the easiest one to explain. There are three basic reasons, all related to the methodology of creating such rankings. First, they take into account the so-called. tradition, i.e. universities are awarded, from which they come from e.g. Nobles. The affiliation of world-renowned scholars is premiered, which is fiction, because there are universities which are much higher in rankings than in Polish, in which the professorship group belongs people who have never set foot in these universities. And finally, publications are awarded in so-called. recognised scientific journals. In the case of non-experimental science, but also experimental science, this is done for paying publication and mutual quoting. An additional reason for the absence of Polish universities is in fact the underfunding of Polish science and the really wrong spending of money on grants for anything that serves, also these grants granted now. One of them even dealt with the CBA, but only because it was publicized for political reasons. And how many cases are there that the grant is spent on non-service projects, but no one wants to brand it for political reasons as well. Let us give you just two examples. One professor received nearly PLN 2 million for research aimed at developing an epidemiological model of speech contempt. That's absurd. The second case of a really meaningless grant is the study of eating yeast as a socio-ethnographic problem. Well, what's that supposed to do? About such gems as the funding of research of the problem, male fantasies - from freikorps to alleys, or Gombrowicz from behind. Anal criticism project in the example of the novel 'Ferdidurke', I wouldn't have mentioned it if it hadn't been spent on several hundred thousand zlotys, and nothing to solve these pseudo-problems did. But the problem is more serious. Because the results of these pseudo-research will be published in the so-called. highly scored journals based on which rankings of universities are created. What's that supposed to do? So how to take these criteria seriously and based on them rankings to be one of the reasons for changes in the Polish science system, especially since these grants are implemented in universities, which are to be the elite of the Polish scientific community and are to be classified as so-called. Research universities? A third point to support the so-called project. Law 2.0 is a thesis that supposedly this law extends the autonomy of the university. The Ministry juggles this argument like a circus man with balls. In practice, it introduces solutions that limit this autonomy. Consider two points - the university board and the associated function and position of the rector of the university. Already the first issue, the detention of university councils as compulsory bodies of public universities, indicates that there is an additional institution controlling and supervising the functioning of public higher education institutions. As far as these organs are concerned, there's a lot of not even ambiguities here, but illogical. Why aren't these entities part of private institutions, after all, the law also regulates their functioning, and these institutions benefit from rich public funding? It would be much better for universities to set up trust councils composed of people who deserved the scientific community of the university, people who represent the so-called. the socio-economic environment, people connected with the area of functioning of universities and, above all, those who are socially active. Against the establishment of university councils, there is also concern that they can be dominated by political and business agreements. It's not an empty fear. One of the young professors is right, who says that when it comes to informal pressure on universities, this sector is so dependent on the external environment that it must be protected from additional influences. And yet the university council, according to the provisions of the draft law, has almost unlimited possibilities to influence universities. However, we know that university councils are the basis, one of the foundations of this law, treated very ambitiously, so ambitiously that if it were rejected by the majority, it could lead to the collapse of the government coalition. Therefore, for rational and substantive reasons, we will propose amendments which will ensure that there is a balance between university autonomy and the need for an external body to verify its functioning. There is little time for me to speak and I will only touch on one more issue that should be corrected in committee. It is the position of the rector. It will be influenced by the way it is designated, yes, the designation, not the election, because it will always be decided by the university council - whether it is by direct choice or by dropping two candidates for the Senate or the university's electors like cuckoo eggs. And the elected Rector, in fact, receives by law a significant part of the senate's existing powers, faculty councils, deanships. He gets a lot of teaching and economic power. In fact, he will be almost a dictator in the structure of the university. He will be able to decide completely on the authority of the institutions of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of the institution of The bill also eliminates departments. So what if they can be established by the statutes of universities when they lose the status of the basic organizational units of universities? This has serious consequences, especially for regional universities. So far, departments of different universities have been granted the right to doctoral and/or habilitation by comparing them with each other. So there were universities that were weaker, but they had strong departments. However, these legislative arrangements will make the departments lose this right, lose the university, and then simply reduce the funding. There are many things that should be picked up here, including those that need to be repaired. I'm going to point to a thing that's supposed to be a positive solution. I have no such opinion here as Professor Nykiel in relation to the teaching path, such objections about the teaching professors. I believe that this path of promotion should be preserved. But she should be treated in the same way as the path of scientific promotion. The problem is that in the act the most important teaching position is the university professor, which consequently means that the didactic will never reach the highest grade. The scientific and scientific-educational career path should be aligned so that the teaching worker can take the same position as the title professor and receive a salary equal to his salary. Furthermore, the agreement to this solution will prove transparency with regard to applicants. Another problem I wanted to mention, because I have some time, it's a matter of university status.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u264	Ten seconds, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u265	I see it, Marshal, so I know how much time I have. There's no provision guaranteeing university status for life, forever. Universities existing at the time of the entry into force of the Act have a certain status, but at some point as a result of various kinds, let's say, the solutions applied here may lose it. That's the weird way of juggling vocabulary: [[♪ The bell ♪]] A university that loses its powers will still be a university. It's just funny. The Kukiz Club15 will present amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u266	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Minister! I must admit that what was new in the implementation of this law, while it was notified, is that it is a law that - you can say boldly - actually was created through some consultation, through a conversation with the environment, and the environment appreciated it very much, it was visible. This was apparent due to participation in all the congresses that were organized in connection with this law, with the constitution of science, as well as the National Congress of Science in which I participated. All this made us feel that, for the first time, we had the feeling that in the matter of a system that was so important because of the functioning of Polish higher education and universities, things were going well, or at least that what was created was part of a broad debate, a broad consensus, not a political struggle. I think that's how every law in Poland should be built. It is a law that is intended to replace the three existing laws - it can therefore be said that the name "Constitution of Science" is not a certain exaggeration - as well as to organize and introduce the functioning of Polish universities and sciences into new paths. This is what I can say about this positive law, but with reading into it and analysing all solutions we see both positive and negative. Of course, it gives universities greater freedom in forming their functioning, structure, does not force them to function within departments, creates opportunities to build a different structure and method of functioning of universities. That's an undoubted plus. She gives a very large authority and autonomy to the rector of the university. However, at the same time we see threats, especially threats, which may arise during the process over this law, e.g. related to the autonomy of the university. At the moment, what raises the greatest doubts, concerns, what I hear most of the time, is the question of how it will eventually be resolved, so that universities retain autonomy, which has always been characteristic of Polish higher education. This law changes a lot of things, starting with how much it attaches, how strongly it strengthens the role of categorization in the functioning of universities. In fact, everything begins to depend on categorization: the possibility of giving degrees, the possibility of starting courses of studies. Categorisation practically becomes an element that will decide whether to be or not to be a university and scientists. This, I think, in some respects, is a good move that allows us to say that, for example. at the moment, courses of study will only be started if there is a good scientific staff who, due to knowledge and level, will be able to meet the needs of students. But, of course, at this point, the question arises that we will not find an answer to in this law: How will this categorization proceed? As we know, as usual, the devil is in the details, and as long as we don't know how it will translate into the functioning of the university, we can only judge the intentions, and we can't judge the principle. We remember the past experience of categorization of departments and all the traps that were hidden there. We know how difficult it was to evaluate, compare departments with very different structures, e.g. The more natural departments with the math departments I dealt with when I worked at college. We know that judging disciplines can solve a lot, because if we judge discipline and not departments, we can judge computer science, mathematics, physics or biology separately. This is, I think, a step in the right direction. There is also an interesting solution related to doctoral studies. Undoubtedly, the fact that doctoral schools can be established is that this area is being organized, that doctoral studies will be more of a study where we can offer students real scholarships, that it is to be organized somehow, that is a move in the right direction, as well as a solution for students. What's the most worried? Firstly, it is indeed a relatively large authority given to both the minister and the government concerning the functioning of the university. Secondly, the position of the university council. The very idea of the university council, which is not new, occurs in other educational systems, higher education systems, is a good idea of linking internal stakeholders such as university employees, students, and external stakeholders, for example. with a business environment. But I feel so anxious, perhaps it comes from my experience, the latter, the 2.5 years of work in this room and work in the Sejm. Unfortunately, very often the eagles were flying, the duck was flying out. I am afraid that it may turn out that at some point the university council will become an organ that can quite strongly affect the functioning of the university by controlling it by the authorities. I don't know if it's gonna turn out at any point that a representative is choosing a voivod and another one is the ministry. In a moment, the Senate may indicate a minority, not the majority, when it comes to participating in the university council. That's the kind of fear I have to say that I had from the beginning when I read this bill. That's another line. I do not understand the question of distinguishing the retirement age. I believe that, in terms of retirement age, what has been done so far at universities has been well resolved, and this is something that does not arouse my positive reception when it comes to this law. Another issue is the functioning of private universities. Here there are relatively few new solutions that would solve the problem of the functioning of private universities and, of course, the possibility of financing good studies in private universities, and everything that would distinguish between these better and worse private universities. Now that I've said more or less about what's bothering me or what's... But I like it, and I think that's the club's opinion, the question of the teaching path of scientific development. It was a very common problem, especially in fields related to methodology: chemistry, mathematics, history. Really, the scientist could not develop if he chose teaching functions. He's gonna have that opportunity right now. What am I worried about? The first concern is: I have the impression that this law does not have full support even from the Minister's environment. The Minister assures me he does. I fear that, along with the work on this law, with the desire to strengthen small universities in small centres, it will turn out that this law will lose all that is good, while it will enrich itself with all that is worrying. It's a good thing we're tidying up. However, I think it is a certain value, that instead of three laws there will be one law, because always according to the modern principle, by introducing one project, one law, two other laws should be abolished. In this case, this is exactly what we're dealing with. As a modern club, I can guarantee that we will try to work on this law, that we are in favour of referring it to a committee, that we believe that there is a need for reform of higher education in Poland, but that nothing will be done, there will be no radical changes, there will be no civilization leap through higher education and science, if there is no increase in expenditure on this field. As long as we are in the grey tail of countries that finance both research and university staff, it will not help much to change the law for so long. Indeed, we need to change the type of functioning of universities, we need to order, we need to ensure that we have the best quality of scientific work, but most of these things can't be done without money in the world. With some hope, but at the same time with fears, we will proceed to work on the law, the constitution for science, believing that good intentions will prevail over the bad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u268	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u269	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the governmental draft law on higher education and science, print No 2446, and the government draft law introducing the Law on higher education and science, print No 2447. Ladies and gentlemen! Recognizing that the pursuit of the truth and the transmission of knowledge from generation to generation is a particularly noble activity of man and recognizing the fundamental role of science in the creation of civilization - such words begin the act presented by Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Mon. Constitution for science. These beautiful sentences, beautiful names, however, may be misleading, because according to academic teachers, the proposal of the Ministry is rather a disaster for science. More than 250 people, professors, people of science, have signed an open letter in which they admit, write, quote: the project, although it is not without good proposals, such as the universal scholarship system for PhD students, the elimination of endless doctoral studies, parental leave for PhD students or easier management of university funding streams, but these good elements of this puzzle cannot obscure the basic winding-up mechanism included in this project. The most important problem is that the law will eliminate the autonomy of the university, subjecting all elements of the very subtle social fabric of the academic world to one person - the rector. We see in this solution the liquidation of academic self-government and the threat of authoritarianism. We are also concerned about the threat of one-sided dependence of free scientific research on the state and private patronage. These are serious reservations, which are partly agreed by experts from the Parliament's analysis office, because it turns out BAS has issued a crushing opinion on the bill, stressing that after the entry into force of the law many smaller universities will lose the rank of universities. The Bureau warns that the Act proposes adverse changes to the system of evaluation of scientific quality for universities in smaller cities, followed by less powers and less funding. It may turn out that by law universities in cities such as Kielce, Lublin and Białystok will lose the rank of university. Paradoxically, the party, which is named as a member of the United Right camp, which until recently carried the slogan on banners about equalising Polish A and B opportunities, will contribute to this law to deepening differences, to the disadvantage of Eastern voivodships. There could be more problems. From the comments which, after reading the project, impose themselves as key, unacceptable, I will mention a few here. The first one concerns the position of the rector. The project envisages over-strengthening the position of the rector by centralising powers and concentrating power in one hand. The president is to be included, among others. the representation, management, preparation of a draft statute and other internal acts, human resources policy, in particular as regards the appointment and dismissal of internal heads of units, evaluation of the work of teachers and the possibility of releasing them. Such a solution is a dangerous departure from proven and established solutions that democratized the life of universities, facilitated the smooth management of diverse units, departments, institutes by selected persons, representing scientific disciplines conducted by the individual, although they still did not protect many universities from the problem of concreteisation of staff, the existence of interest groups, the fight against internal competition, etc. Focusing the full power in one hand can effectively deepen such pathologies, as the rector will receive tools to facilitate the creation of his policy, and it cannot be assumed that it will be free of particular interests and only serve the good of the university. It is also worrying that there is no regulation on the ability to control the rector, assess his work or appeal during his term of office. According to the solutions adopted, even a weak rector, e.g. At risk of loss, loss of prestige, reduction in the number of students, he will be able to perform a function, and with favorable internal arrangements, which with such broad power he will be able to ensure, he has a chance of re-election. Interestingly, the almighty rector could theoretically share working time between different universities, because there is no ban on the rector's work in other universities. This could lead to a serious conflict of interest. Interestingly, the Act is to extend the terms of the current Rectors - theoretically to prepare universities to implement reforms. However, the problem may be that, after the end of the term of office, no one will be responsible for the solutions adopted, because with their entry into force, the creators will cease to act as rectors. Unfortunately, it's a mix-up. There are serious doubts about the departure from the faculty structures - the Institutes - to the idea that the university is a basic organisational unit managed by the rector and evaluated as a whole. Such a solution may have a number of negative consequences, e.g. lack of internal competitiveness, motivation to take ambitious action, including research. The system will still be feudal and inefficient. There's no clear information. About the two-time thing. It should definitely be eliminated at doctoral level, as the work of such people in two universities is extremely unfavourable for each of these universities. A scientific worker, who focuses on the development of teaching salaries, has essentially no time or strength for development, research, foreign internships or innovation. In addition, taking up two jobs, it often blocks jobs and the ability of universities to build their own staff, especially smaller ones. Another important issue is the issue of state higher vocational schools. These for 20 years have enabled thousands of people to acquire higher education or to improve their qualifications by conducting other forms of training. For many cities and regions, they have become important centres to stimulate the development of human and economic capital. In our view, therefore, public higher vocational schools should generally function as teaching institutions, but with the possibility of carrying out research, in particular related to local needs and a newly defined mission; they should retain the right to conduct second degree studies, especially as many of them have excellent facilities for conducting them; they should have the possibility of introducing an extended educational offer so that they can become regional training centres of competence desired by employers, confer professional qualifications, confirm and certify qualifications. With regard to the institution's system, a mechanism must also be followed - a change in the senate's setting-up mode and scope, which should be the opinion-making body represented by all groups of employees and students. It should have competences similar to those proposed for universities. Ladies and gentlemen! The Rector should be selected by a convention extended to representatives of academic teachers and other university staff, students and trade union representatives. It should have a strong managerial position and be responsible for the development and finances of the school and limit employment to only one university. The role of the university convention as a specific supervisory board should be strengthened as regards the Chancellor - this function should be focused on economic governance and administration. The priority should be to strengthen the education process, not to demolish the structure of universities. Today, there is not enough time for innovative forms of education and new courses of multidisciplinary studies. These are directions that should also be addressed by the Ministry of Science. These are just some of the reservations that arise from the analysis of the project presented by the Ministry. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats believes that reform is needed, but the question is whether it is in this shape. These talks should continue, especially since the law presented by the Ministry of Science is a kind of phenomenon among the PiS-Polish. I believe she was the only one consulted, Prime Minister, and hence the appeal to you to continue along this road. The change should be with the agreement of the parties concerned, Minister, show your colleagues in the government how to consult draft laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u270	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her speech in writing. I therefore ask that the voice of Mr John Klawiter, not associated, be taken up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Science is one of the pillars of our civilisation. For decades she was treated as a stepmother - for 19 years I was a scientist at the Gdansk University of Technology, I know the situation, I know that unfortunately many, many there were agreements in all of this, and there was little desire to develop. Of course, it was drastically underfunded. We need to understand the importance of this pillar of our civilisation, science should be as important to us as health and we should make absolutely maximum efforts to finance science to improve. Of course, funding for science cannot be improved without improving matters related to the functioning of universities and research. Here I would like to draw attention to a few things, because unfortunately this arrangement, let's say, the university is quite ossified. It seems desirable to eliminate the degree of scientific doctor habilitation, as well as the title of scientific professor. The professor should only be contractual, as in the United States. This is particularly important in Poland, where the acquisition of habilitation is often an obvious waste of time, and professors begin to rest on laurels in a large part, and they dig in and often hinder the development of the more capable competition for them. This is also the case - determining the number of students per academic teacher at level 13 is certainly desirable in humanities, political sciences, but in technical sciences, including chemical technology, biotechnology, architecture or shipbuilding, it is too high if the level of education is to be high. This is unfortunately a certain specificity of technical sciences that they require a more individualized teaching. It's not enough for one lecturer to listen to, say, 300 students, but there has to be a specific lab job. You also have to pay attention to a case like this... In old cases, scientists belonged to PZPR, ZSL and SD. I am pleased that this bill introduces some restrictions in terms of those who worked with the camera, with the security services, but does not note that - then and also now - there are a lot of people who have been partying at the time. Even if, during the period of "Solidarity," they gave up their legitimacy - and it is important to be aware that many of them threw their cards on orders - they should not be able to take managerial positions in science and technology, especially in higher education, where they have a significant impact on the upbringing of the young generation. This should also apply to former employees or identified secret agents of Military Information Services and Security Services, employed in science and technology in higher education. Nor should they have passive electoral rights in science and technology in higher education. Of course, they can work as lecturers and researchers, but it is important to be aware that the vast majority of them are people who joined the PZPR, i.e. signed cooperation with the SB, with the WSI, not so as to effectively develop science and technology, just to make a career. The authentic development of science and technology requires intense work and creative invention, not just career-making. I would like to draw attention once again to the financing, in parallel with the issues of ordering. I'm glad, for example. will link the salaries of research and teaching staff with the average salary. This should be the case in most institutions, including the Sejm - here I refer to the government - pay should be in proportion to the average salary and then many problems would be avoided. So that's a good solution too. I appeal for further growth [[♪ The bell ♪]] funding of universities and science. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u272	Thank you. We've exhausted statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join us in asking questions? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, the Law and Justice will be the first to speak. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u273	One minute? Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers! High Izbo! Probably all of us, as we are here, see the need to reform science, higher education, but it is always the question whether this direction that is being chosen is right. A minute is not enough, but I will ask if there are any scientific, academic backgrounds that are protesting and what elements indicate that something needs to be changed. That's one thing. How do trade unions and student environments respond to this? Finally, I would like to ask if you are familiar with the legal opinion of 30 April this year, Dr. Hab. Robert Jastrzębski. It presents eight of them, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he clearly misjudges it. How would you respond to that opinion? You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u274	Thank you. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a huge risk that smaller centres will not be able to compete in terms of research levels and didactics. This threatens to destabilise the finances of small and medium-sized universities. The Rector will not be fully autonomous in the face of possible pressure from politics and business. The Act therefore introduces solutions which have already been negatively verified in other countries. There is no full acceptance for new solutions from the academic community. Smaller universities fear for their fate, the fate of many departments is at stake. I wanted to ask if the concerns of smaller universities were right. I ask that these concerns be addressed during committee meetings by appropriate amendments and new provisions in the Act. This law, known as the Constitution for Science, must take into account the interests of all concerned [[♪ The bell ♪]] entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u276	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! For the past two years, Minister Gowin has changed in the draft constitution for science the retirement age of scientists. We have now stopped at the age of 65 for men and women. The question is, do you want to get rid of academic teachers at the age of mental fitness and during the greatest scientific development? This is a joke. Do you want to fire all academic teachers who reach this age? [[No, we don't.]] After all, the average age of taking a professorship in Poland is now 57 years. It is a waste of knowledge, experience and skills of teachers. Second question. The Minister writes in the regulation that he will define the fields of science and artistic discipline. Does this mean that universities will not be able to educate students for e.g. architecture departments, which are currently separate departments of the University of Technology? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u278	Thank you. Now you will be speaking with Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many academic backgrounds, including above all national universities and academy, indicate the need to extend the time limits for the adoption of internal acts. The terms set in the new regulations are short, and they are e.g. about as important documents as the new statutes of the university. In the case of large centres with complex structures, it takes a long time to prepare and adopt new statutes. Part of the time limits laid down in this Act are defined as unrealistic. I wanted to ask, will it be verified? Will the demands in this regard be taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u280	Thank you. Ms Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Regional and vocational schools are a very important element of higher education. In my voivodship, Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, there are both. And they are often the only chance to train young people from small centres. I have heard here today from Members of the opposition - some, I am not saying that everyone, so they say - that these universities are at risk. There were such voices that they were in danger. I wanted to ask: What are the solutions for these universities to the constitution for science? And one more question. The Prime Minister also said that this constitution is intended to prevent brain draining, i.e. the departure of these many young capable people from Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask: What instruments described here are to keep these young people in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u282	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u283	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! When we proceed with this law, we are talking about the need to improve the quality of learning. Today in Poland we have about 100 public universities and about 300 private universities. Now I'm reading art. 63 3: At a public university, the number of students studying at a fixed university must not be less than the number of students studying at a permanent university. That's where the question arises. First of all, how many non-public universities where the number of non-current students is higher than the number of fixed ones? And isn't it that some of these non-public universities work, let's say, on a weekend: from Friday from hours. 12 a.m. Sunday by 12 a.m. 12? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And shouldn't this record, which is a logical record, include public universities as well? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u284	Thank you. Mr Richard Galla, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Since the beginning of its operation, the Government of the United Right has been talking about the need for sustainable development and higher education is one element of development. On the other hand, the draft Law on Higher Education presented by Mr Gowin is a bit of a denial. It leads to marginalisation of smaller academic centres in favour of large cities. According to Dr. Hab's expertise. Jarosław Szymanka from the Office of Sejm Analysis from 18 universities with a general academic name I, Prime Minister, am from Opole Voivodeship, bow to the University of Opole, which is in the group of 11 who lose this name. And for the sake of this school, I would like to look at what you are proposing, ask the Prime Minister: What will be the fate of this university? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the situation of such universities in the country at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u286	Thank you. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on higher education - Law 2.0 states that the implementation of the State's scientific policy is subject to evaluation at least once every 5 years. The State's scientific policy is defined by the Council of Ministers. Will the Council of Ministers also decide to focus research on the priorities of individual universities? If so, the proposed changes undermine the autonomy of the university. The proposed project also sets out criteria for the division of universities into categories. There is a relation between the name of the university and the category obtained. Don't you think that this division of universities will lead to the bankruptcy of regional universities? After all, the parametrization requirements for the formation of studies and the training of students depending on the category are depreciated by local universities. Is there any chance that such universities can continue to function? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u288	Thank you. Mr Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all know that the changes that lead to the development of universities, the improvement of education, the provision of good conditions for students and teachers are very much needed. But law 2.0 for regional universities is a destructive law in many respects. Regional universities receiving less and less funding for research over 2 years necessarily have less research and aparamental potential. As a result, technical departments often have a problem with maintaining category B. The evaluation procedures of universities introduced by the law deprive regional universities of the right to habilitation, because this is the situation of extreme underfinancing required from universities of categories respectively. A or A+ or B+. The University of Technology and Humanities in Radom, where Minister Marek Suski is the chairman of the patronage council... And here the question may not be to the Minister, but to Minister Suski: will this be an achievement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That in October, the university will lose its habilitating rights? Is it going to be a success that Radom University will have no doctoral rights in four years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u290	Thank you. Now the question will be asked by Mr King Gajewska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u291	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I didn't think the time would come for me to be the mouth of Marshal Terletsky or a Member of Law and Justice Professor Bernacki... After all, here is a quote: The word "constitution" in this case is a little legislative tromtadration. On the other hand, I also wanted to present an open letter of professors and several assumptions. The most important problem is that the law will eliminate the autonomy of the university, subject all elements of the very subtle social fabric of the academic world to one person, the rector. Professors see in this solution the liquidation of academic self-government and the threat of authoritarianism. The Rector will, of course, not be free from political and business pressures. After what you have done with the courts, it is hard for me to believe that the university council, notabene actually known in Western Europe, will operate in Poland in accordance with European standards of democracy [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u292	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u293	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Despite some of the good solutions contained in this project, today it would be difficult for me to vote in favour of this project because of the fact that from a number of analyses, the opinion shows that it is detrimental to smaller academic centres, and I come from Lubuskie voivodeship and I cannot imagine that I can put my hand to the degradation of our university. What are we afraid of? Among other things, the loss of the right to doctorate in 10 departments, because it would only remain on one, to reduce resources for research or teaching activities due to changes in the system of assessment of scientific quality. We're also worried about losing rank, university status. The state often stresses sustainable development, but in this case it seems to be lacking. There will be several strong academic centers and perhaps well, but the others will be left with nothing. Let's remember that science and business are coming today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Co-upling and taking away smaller regions of these academic centres means taking away their chances of faster development, competitiveness, innovation development. Not to mention social costs. We also need academic centres. We want to move forward, and here's a question mark for whether this reform will give us that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u294	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u295	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u296	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Why are local universities being depreciated in the draft law, which could result in liquidation? Higher vocational schools have led to the development and growth of many smaller cities, such as Jelenia Góra, where I created a higher vocational school. Why, instead of strengthening them and developing them, giving them the opportunity to carry out scientific research, restricting them and depreciating them? [[There'll be reinforcements.]] I think it's very unfair and even harmful. And then there's the second line. University Council - a new body known in many countries. I have a question: Why is the university council mostly made up of people? Or outsiders? After all, the university council has great competence and will actually decide about this university. What does that tell you? And another thing. A very large power is passed on to the rector. Is it an expression? increasing academic autonomy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u298	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the records on the assignment of a doctoral degree, and in particular about those records which speak of exceptional cases justified by the highest quality of scientific achievement, which allow you to circumvent requirements such as having a master's degree or an engineer's master's degree or equivalent titles, and allow you to obtain such a title by graduates of first degree or students who have completed the third year of uniform master's degree. I ask you to explain, first of all: What is the highest quality of scientific achievement? And another question: If such a student gets a doctoral degree, will it be equivalent to his graduating from higher education at this point in time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u300	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Artur Gierada, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In Kielce, several generations have been led to the establishment of a university for several years. This was a priority issue for us, and for me as a Member it was a great pleasure to be involved in this work, and it was an honor to be a member of the coalition, whose Prime Minister was Donald Tusk and which just established a university in Kielce. Not much, I don't know if you know, but for eight years of government, the Civic Platform universities and the Świętokrzyski University of Technology and the university received over PLN 600 million. It was one of the larger amounts received by universities in Poland. In addition to the new campuses, buildings, apart from the equipped laboratories, new directions were created, such as. Like medicine, right. Today I have no doubt that this bill can destroy all of this. I say this on the basis of those dozens of opinions which were commissioned by the Marshal of the Sejm and which show it all. And of course, saying today that the introduction of a category B+ can change that, certainly does not guarantee this to the university, [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the contrary, Prime Minister, today it is somehow sobering and dragging only at a time when this university will be liquidated. If you let that happen, Kielce won't forget it. I'm asking for a public hearing on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u302	Now the question will be asked by Mr Killion Munyama, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u303	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have four questions. First of all, isn't it a year too early about the date of entry into force of the law? Secondly, is there any chance of implementing the projected historical increase in expenditure on GDP in relation to education, which can, of course, prevent the drainage of young scientists? Thirdly, will the rector be able to determine a higher retirement age than in the general system of professors? Fourthly, it is necessary to clarify what key can be used when appointing outsiders to the university board. Why is it that the President of the Student Parliament has a guaranteed participation, not e.g. PhD counseling? So these four questions need to be clarified, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as this bill is concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u304	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Arthur Rule, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u305	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is no strong economy without an efficient system of higher education, and investment in young people, in their education drives innovation and has a very high rate of return. That is why it is so important to introduce the proposed changes for the sustainable development of the economy. Hence my question. Everyone is aware, Prime Minister, that these ambitious plans contained in the draft constitution for science will not be implemented without adequate funding. As lubushanin and as a greengórzanin, I have a question about the amount of these funds, especially those addressed to regional universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u306	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Among the reasons underlying the proposed thorough reform of the functioning of science and higher education are: a faulty system of degrees and academic titles to date. Votes of lower and lower levels of doctoral work are noticeable, as well as the inflation of the entitlement to the degree of doctor-habilitated. Therefore, only institutions with a scientific category A+, A or B will hold such rights of the habilitating entity. My question concerns the noticeable problem of selection of reviewers, whether for evaluation of doctoral work or for selection of rehabilitation procedures, after all, the practices used in this area also determine the level of written and accepted work. Often, they do so within a narrow group of people, always the same, without clear criteria, simply on the basis of knowledge, on the basis of consideration. And other scientists, equally substantive and often even better in this field, are [[♪ The bell ♪]] omitted for various reasons, for example, for fear of being overcritical in assessing work or achievements. Is this problem perceived and something will change in this respect towards greater objectivity and transparency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u308	Thank you. The question is now asked by Michał Cieślak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Today we have heard a lot about doubts about the law on higher education and the university council proposed in the Law. Therefore, I would like to ask how many countries there is a university council or, if it is easier, how many countries do not exist, and I am referring here to countries where academic centres are more important from the point of view of the world. I would also like to ask about the consultation of the environment, how they were going when they started. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u310	Thank you. The question is now asked by Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have one question. I think it is of great value that today we are proceding a constitution for science. After a long time - I know - consulting this very important law today we have the opportunity to listen to this statement presented here by the Prime Minister. I would like to ask whether this constitution for science will also be a constitution for business, for employers and for future workers. And is this constitution... Are there some particularly important provisions that show what the future connection between universities and business will be, and what added value will that be for our economy? That's what I wanted to ask you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u312	Thank you. The question is now asked by Gabriel Masłowska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u313	Minister! This bill is reserved not only for small universities, but also for large public universities. Whether the consultation was advanced enough to simply take into account all these objections and all these concerns, because from my contacts it appears that many representatives of university authorities have at least doubts. And the second question is that there are new rules on PhDs: Will these new rules also apply to those who are currently in doctoral studies or have open doctoral channels, or will they be able to continue and finish them [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the old regulations? It's a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u314	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister to explain in some way which the average man could understand what the article is about. 19, i.e. issues of university autonomy and university council. How can you talk about the autonomy of the university, if in the composition of the university council - which has huge competence, it includes. for the election of the rector - the majority are outsiders and the chairman must also be outside the university? If we're talking about university autonomy, I understand that this applies to the environment that creates this university. Please explain the philosophy of the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When did you take this solution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u316	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Stefan Romecki of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u317	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the potential division of universities into research and professional universities as a result of the evaluation of these universities in 2021. How will the Ministry ensure that regional universities operate at university level? Why are the criteria for the evaluation of universities still not known, although the evaluation period is ongoing, and this is why they will be divided into research and work? Many of my fellow Members spoke about the black scripts of this law. Therefore, for the sake of the Kostine universities, I would like to ask whether these changes would not harm them. I believe that not that these changes will affect the further development of Koszalin universities and not only those, but all in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u318	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt. I don't know, Member, how can I introduce you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u320	...from Modern yet or not? I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! A few questions, so hurry up. Why was there no attempt during the work to even partially free universities from all these provisions, the rigors of the Public Procurement Act? Another thing - a lot of controversy raised records about the university council. It's supposed to be a breath of freshness, a look from the outside. There are no criteria. You're not afraid it's gonna be mostly so-called. outsiders, but yet retired professors of a given university, and that will not be the result? Do you have this thoughtful and calculated when it comes to small universities, such as art or music? The next question concerns the retirement age of women. I appeal to the Prime Minister here to make an amendment so as not to discriminate against women. Because the average age when they're a professor, that's 58 years old, and we're retiring them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the age of 60. Allow me to approach and ask the other two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u322	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u323	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that Polish science needs change. Without a doubt, if we want to catch up with Europe, we must reform our universities, our research area. This area needs change and, as the Prime Minister said, we need a leap into the future. Besides, the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that this bill is supposed to stop what is Poland's greatest drama, and it is the brain drain. Okay, I'm sure he'll stop, and I have no doubt about that. It will stop in Warsaw, stop in Krakow, stop in Wrocław, stop in Poznań and strengthen these centres. On the other hand, I have very serious doubts whether this will be the case in Gorzów, in Zielona Góra, in Koszalin or in Opole, in particular in Opole. These are not just my concerns, Prime Minister, that these concerns have been repeatedly spoken of by the employers of Poland, the association of the "Solidarity" University of Opole, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish Sociological Society, finally the Crisis Committee of Polish Humanities and Prof. Żyżyński. In other words, I would ask you to comment on whether really these concerns - in my opinion justified - about degradation, about the marginalisation of universities are justified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u324	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! In fact, these arguments are very duplicated: the university council - although it has changed its status from sovereign to opinion-making or opinion-making, the question of the powers to conduct habilitation, new directions, the maintenance of the B+ category during the consultation, as well as the question of the possibility of doctorising. It's all been duplicated. I have a concrete request, this is the request of the Lublin academic community, to consider whether or not to implement the law at that date, when the terms of the current university authorities end. Because the Act enters into force in 2019 and the terms of office - public universities - end in 2020. With this change in university status, it seems appropriate for the new authorities to implement the new provisions of the law. But in general, the question is... These are the demands of the community of Lublin universities. This is a very strong academic facility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he's very worried. The degradation of this centre will result in the degradation of Lublin and Lublin region. Would the Prime Minister be polite to say whether the expenditure will actually increase, as is the case in countries such as France or Japan, where there is almost 3% GDP...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u326	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u327	...and only 1% of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u328	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In preparing for the debate, I collected various documents. I came across a document prepared by the University Scientific Commission at the Conference of Rectors of Polish Universities, in which it is the request of this committee that more universities be selected in the first competition for research universities, i.e. during a transitional period. There's a number 15. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also read there that this document was sent to the Prime Minister. I would like to ask, how does the Prime Minister refer to this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u330	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Dolata, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The law that we have just begun to process is rightly called a constitution for science. She was very widely consulted. Much has been said here about what it contains. I'd like to ask actually two questions. First: Does the Prime Minister expect this consultation to continue as any new demands arise? The second question concerns regional universities and funding mechanisms. She generally changes the way universities are financed, but I would like to ask about these mechanisms which will be dedicated to regional universities, and especially to state vocational schools. What are the solutions here that will ensure the development of this type of university? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u332	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Müller.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u333	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, With regard to individual questions, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for those that appear. I feel that the common concern of the High House is that, in fact, this sustainable development is one of the main principles. I am convinced that this project is implementing this principle, as I would like to say, by referring to the specific questions that you have asked. Some of the questions that we have seen are repeated, so in the case of the first questions that raise the same subject, I will speak in general, and then I will simply refer to the fact that I have already given this answer. Mr Kazimierz Moskal asked whether there were any criticisms of the law, particularly in the context of trade unions or other backgrounds, in the context of the public consultation. Of course, in the context of the public consultation, criticisms appear, as in any public consultation. We have often included these criticisms in the bill, which we can boast about, among others. as part of all these initiatives, which address the strengthening of this principle of sustainable development, e.g. reducing the requirements for habilitation from category A to category B+. I am also convinced that trade unions are also satisfied with the announced increases that will apply to academic teachers. I would just like to remind you that according to the plans from 1 January 2019 average increases in minimum salaries at universities will amount to PLN 800 gross, so these are really big increases. In some cases there are over 20% higher than current requirements. He also asked about the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. As I understand it, the Member was referring to the question of university autonomy. There are allegations that university autonomy should be implemented through the autonomy of the departments, that it is really implemented through the autonomy of the departments. I would just like to remind you that the constitutional principle of university autonomy concerns universities as a whole. The university as a whole is to implement this principle of autonomy. Of course, in most cases the faculty councils, the faculty in the universities will stay, but it is the university as a whole that is supposed to pursue public goals. I think one of the problems we solve in this case is that departments are often miniature within the same university. We want the departments to cooperate with each other, which is why we are modifying this requirement in the bill. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek pointed to one of the key demands that were presented here. It is a question of a possible threat to smaller academic centres. I would like to respond comprehensively to those questions that have emerged. Firstly, the draft law, the draft which has been submitted to you by Members, is the first draft law which, after 1989, provides for dedicated funds for regional universities in general. If we had not introduced this law now, the situation of regional universities would have been worse than after the introduction of this law. This must be said clearly today, because I have the impression that some Members are suggesting that it is now good and that this law is making things worse. That is not the case, on the contrary. These additional funds will be allocated to regional universities, among others. as part of a regional initiative of excellence, a teaching initiative of excellence. I would like to stress very clearly that no university in Poland, which is currently called the University of Technology, the University of Technology or the Academy of Education, will lose that name. Ladies and gentlemen, Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th bill that we are now presenting says that these rights, these names are preserved. And that should be so, because for many years this transitional provision, which retains these names, has been voted in the Sejm, because every now and then someone does not meet these requirements. Those signs will stay. They are a tradition, a huge addition to the regional environment. This work should be appreciated. We appreciate it, preserve it, and preserve it, because it is one of the principles that governs this law. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel asked about the retirement age. Besides, this subject also appears in further questions. Firstly, the retirement age is governed by general pension rules. This is where you can retire. There is no termination of the employment relationship with the retirement age. Talking about that, for example. Women at the age of 60 will be forced by the rectors, I believe, retired, is simply not true. I would like to make that clear. There's a pension law. This law will be preserved. But in order not to raise any doubts, because we are actually aware that there may be some environmental pressure at universities, we also want to make some adjustments in the law to make it clear. Firstly, the active and passive electoral law in the university will be identical for both sexes, the same age for both sexes. That's one thing. Second thing. As regards the appointment and the termination of appointments, these provisions are currently in place. So if someone is already in the appointment, both a woman and a man, they will finish this appointment and it will expire with exactly the same rules as it is now. Similarly, if we make any adjustments to the expiry of working relationships with the achievement of a certain age, it will always be equal for men and women. This principle we will want to maintain in the event of any such change, because gender equality at universities is very important to us. Women have made great scientific achievements. We are very grateful because they really bring huge scientific potential to Polish science. As far as science and discipline are concerned, I would like to dispel an important question. Here is a statement, or actually a question, if there is no scientific discipline defined in the division of scientific disciplines, it will be possible to conduct courses of study. Of course you can, just as you can now. There is no discipline in international relations, but as far as I know, we have graduates of international relations. As far as I know, we also have graduate dietists, and there is no such discipline, etc. The courses of study are independent of the division of scientific disciplines, and it would be advisable for them to be in many scientific disciplines. This is the nature of studying, that we do not want to close ourselves in particular scientific disciplines, but on their combination to create study programs, which this law greatly extends and what was a postulate of students, academic community, also an interdisciplinary study environment, with the Artes Liberales Faculty at the University of Warsaw at the head. Mrs Krzywonos expressed some doubts as to whether the time to adopt internal documents in proceedings which will start after the entry into force of the law was sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, the senate of the university will have a year to adopt a new statute - a year. I think it's time enough. It seems to me that a year is enough for the adoption of the document, especially since many universities are already working on it. As Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin mentioned, the consultation process, which was carried out in connection with the law, also woke up the preparations for the implementation of the law in universities. In many universities the idea process, how universities should look after implementation, the entry into force of the law, took place and now they are preparing to enter it into really draft statutes. So there's no such fear here. As for other regulations, other internal regulations, this time is even longer, in some cases it is even 2 years, so here I do not see these concerns. Mrs Iwona Michalek asked about the fate of state higher vocational schools and what solutions we are planning for these universities. That's one of the things to boast about. For many years, unfortunately, state-owned vocational schools have been underestimated. I'm going to say more, even hitting my chest, that at the very beginning when we were in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, we also looked a little bit with disbelief that these universities were so good. But they're really good, and that's why they deserve their support. This is more than 30 universities, state higher vocational schools, which play an incredibly important role. I was recently at the University of Warsaw in Ciechanów, and I was really happy to see how this university works, how social events take place there. Support for these universities is essential. So what do we do? Firstly, we issue a separate financial mechanism for state higher vocational schools, in general for professional universities. So they're not supposed to compete with universities, big universities, because this competition would necessarily be distorted. Therefore, a separate financial stream will be dedicated to state-owned vocational schools within the framework of the financial algorithm. They will also be evaluated differently. They will be judged for what is their real mission, in this case the teaching mission. In addition, the Prime Minister has already mentioned this - we are implementing the programme of the 'Didactic initiative of excellence'. So professional universities, which are well educated - graduates quickly find employment in the labour market, but in relation to local unemployment rates, so this is weighted and not compared between cities - will receive additional funding. This year, these additional funds have already been received by the Minister's programme, but we want to permanently attach this to the bill so that no one in the future can think of blocking this money. We introduce such a mechanism permanently and this is one of the important things that appear. Support for the Conference of Rectors of State Higher Vocational Schools is also so clear because the government has finally noticed the existence of these universities and supports their functioning. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak asked about the relationship between the number of fixed and permanent students in public and non-public universities. In fact, public universities have a statutory obligation, and it is already mandatory that the number of fixed students be higher than the number of permanent students. It is important to ensure that free education is the most important in public universities since it is financed by the state budget. In private universities we do not finance students at all, so we do not legally enter this relationship. Although we do have such a position that universities that only provide non-stationary education are imperfect universities, so to speak. In some places, in particular in the case of teacher training, it may be necessary to intervene at the level of the Sejm committees. I think your fellow Members will also notice this problem. Besides, the Member has rightly pointed him out today. Mr Ryszard Galla expressed his concern for the fate of Opole universities. I am very happy because this concern is common concern, including ours. I'll just say that the rectors of Opole and Wrocław universities clearly supported the bill as a good one. The name of the university will be preserved and therefore there is no concern, Opole University will become Opole University, Opole University of Technology will become Opole University of Technology, and now Opole University will have medicine with additional financial resources from the government that have been allocated. I therefore think that the Member will only support such activities as will develop the University of Opole in the context of medical training. Anna Wasilewska asked about the issue of a new document, which appears in the law, namely the state's scientific policy. Indeed, at present there is actually no document that regulates the priorities of the state's scientific policy. There were some doubts here as to whether this scientific policy of the state would interfere, for example. in the autonomy of universities in the field of scientific research. There is no such concern, all the more so because according to the new law, according to the draft law, universities will finance under subsidies. It's the university that's going to decide what kind of research she's doing. But of course we cannot be blind to the needs of the economy, social needs. Therefore, the grant programmes that are implemented by the agencies must actually take into account government priorities, the priorities of the State, for example. are defined in the strategy for responsible development. Therefore, the State's scientific policy adopted by the Council of Ministers must indicate these priorities, together with the provision of financial resources, which is important. It seems natural. Every respectable country in the world has such policies and priorities. As regards the question of the Member, the concern about whether universities that do not have a sufficient scientific category will be able to continue to provide education, to develop new courses of study, I answer: they will be able to do so. We are expanding the question of autonomy in conducting studies. I mean, all universities that have categories: A, A+ and B+, which is new, will be able to create courses of study themselves. B+ is an amendment that we've prepared, so you don't see it in the project yet. But as far as other universities are concerned, they will seek to open up a new course of study under the procedure that is in force in the current law, i.e. by submitting a proposal to the Ministry, which is forwarded to the Polish Accreditation Board, is positively assessed and is launched another course of study. There's no danger here. In such a situation there is also automatic financing of such courses of study, so I would not be afraid of that. Anna Białkowska asked about the question of doctoral rights at all. These questions also continued to arise, so I would like to answer collectively questions about the loss of rights, or rather the acquisition, because rather in these categories I look at it. One concern for a high level of science in Poland is that academic degrees should be given to universities that have a high level of research. This must therefore depend on the current level of research. This is rather an opportunity for those universities that have islands of excellence, because we will carry out this division in scientific disciplines, so this comparison will be fair to what is now. I see I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna try to get to those questions that I didn't answer because some of them were repeating. I absolutely disagree with the statement made by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, who spoke about the liquidation of the autonomy of the university, as I said earlier. I'll also tell you about the college board. The university board is entirely elected by the academic community, and therefore I do not see a restriction on the autonomy of the university, but the implementation of the autonomy of the university by indicating the university board. The question was, which countries do not have university council. It's more like those where science and higher education policies are worse. We're drawn from Scandinavian, German, American, Anglo-Saxon patterns, so we're looking at universities that work well. Further, questions concerning the scientific categories and issues of regional universities. I answered those questions. Mr Killion Munyama asked about the date of entry into force of the law or not too soon. I don't think so. There's an adjustment period right now. When you enter statuses, it's 1 year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is annual growth not dependent on GDP? This is a matter of arrangement with the Ministry of Finance. But this growth will still apply every year, as over 10 years the cumulative increase in science and higher education will amount to PLN 47.5 billion. Every year almost PLN 1 billion more will affect the system, so there is no concern for growth, although we will, of course, seek to make it more than the Act currently provides. I think I've answered all the questions that concern key questions. We are open to questions during the parliamentary committees, individual meetings, including with Members of the opposition. In order for there to be no doubt, our concern is that this document should be further processed in exactly the same procedure as before, i.e. through deep dialogue, listening to comments and implementing them where it is needed. We can retreat if we see that we've made a mistake somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u334	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u335	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the draft of this law, external opinions limit the autonomy of universities and the academic community if it does not eliminate it. Despite the declaration that universities will be free to compete with each other for resources and prestige, this law in fact introduces space for arbitrary decisions, and selected research institutions are to gain a permanent, legally guaranteed advantage after its entry into force, preventing regional universities from competing in terms of level of research and didactics. Leaving financial issues in this form by introducing a new algorithm in the draft law creates a real threat of destabilising the finances of small and medium-sized universities. Please answer the following questions: 1. Is it true that the Act proposes solutions that have been negatively reviewed in several countries and have been the cause of fraud, the creation of false statistics on recruitment and achievements, research fraud, the breakdown of teamwork, organizational chaos and the decline of the level of education? 2. Is it true that the law will destroy college collegiate bodies and limit their competence? According to the new law, can the solutions of the Council of Institutes, Boards of Departments and Senate, i.e. the collegial structures of universities, be eliminated and their scope and autonomy is significantly limited in the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science, called the Constitution for Science. It is clear that Polish higher education is not at all at the level that we would expect. There is no doubt that at some point in our history We took a step in the wrong direction. Our low position in the prestigious Shanghai ranking, the ranking of the best universities in the world - in the first 500 there are only two Polish universities and it is at the bottom of the list - it confirms the thesis that there is a need for profound changes in this area. The project discussed today was prepared, among others. at the request of the academic community. Two-year consultations and numerous scientific conferences today translate into the fact that its final edition is not only welcomed very positively, but also meets the expectations of many academic bodies. The amended law provides for a number of solutions which will systematically affect the quality of education in Poland and the renewal of Polish science, to change today's approach from quantitative to qualitative. Among them there are among others. Introduction to the structure of the university so-called a university board which, by giving it competence to approve financial statements, to evaluate the draft statutes and to identify candidates for rectors, will have a real impact on the direction of development of the institution. In addition, it is also envisaged to increase the organisational autonomy of universities, which under the new regulations is to be defined by statute, as well as the autonomy of spending funds. These changes will increase the flexibility of universities and the ability to adapt, whether to demographic conditions or to other current needs. As one of the most important changes introduced by the project, which can really contribute to the growth of the position of Polish higher education in the world ranking, I consider above all those leading to an increase in the importance of research, a modification of the rules for assessing the quality of education and a new model of doctoral training and applying for a doctoral degree. I also welcome the increased emphasis placed on the practice during the course of my studies. Thanks to these solutions, there will be less and less frequent situations in which Polish universities release unprepared people to the labour market, in which practical education must be invested by employers, and which at the start, despite graduate studies, have much less value than those without a scientific degree, but with experience. However, when discussing the advantages of this project, it is difficult not to mention its disadvantage. In its original version, it was assumed that over the coming years, i.e. By 2025, financial expenditure on science and education will be increased to 1.8%. This change, so significant in order to increase the effectiveness of the proposed reform, is unfortunately not in the final version of the project. I hope that this subject will be still under discussion in the course of further work and that these expenditures will eventually be increased, as initially assumed. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u337	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the governmental draft Law on Higher Education and Science, contained in print No 2446, and the governmental draft Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science, contained in print No 2447, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws (print No 2459). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Marek Chodkiewicz to present the justification for the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, five minutes off, because I see that the Minister is not here. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 15 h 17 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law aims to bring Polish law into line with the solutions set out in Commission Regulation 2016/403 and to implement certain provisions of Directive 2015/719 of the European Parliament and of the Council into Polish law. The provisions of the Regulation shall apply directly in the Member States of the European Union from 1 January 2017 and the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2015/719 in the national legal order of the Member States should take place by 7 May 2017, except that by 27 May 2021 Member States are to adopt specific measures to determine which vehicles or combinations of vehicles in use are likely to exceed the maximum permissible mass. The most important changes planned include the categorisation of serious infringements of road transport obligations and conditions: the most serious infringements with the NN symbol, very serious infringements with the BPN symbol and serious violations with the NSA symbol. This will allow the automatic exchange of information between Poland and the other Member States of the European Union under the ERRU system as regards serious infringements of EU rules and their qualifications, which may lead to the loss of good repute by road transport operators - the requirement of good repute is essential for the occupation of the carrier. New solutions assume that a serious infringement, a very serious infringement or the most serious infringement may be committed not only by the road carrier but also by the transport manager or by the driver. The initiation of a procedure for the fulfilment of the requirement of good repute shall be subject to the frequency of infringements in accordance with the rules laid down in Commission Regulation 2016/40. Another amendment is the repeal of the criminal liability of the person managing the transport or other road transport activities and the introduction of the administrative responsibility of that person. The aim of the amendment is to improve competitiveness in road transport and ensure equal treatment between national and foreign operators by making it possible to control and collect charges from foreign operators. In the current legal state, criminal proceedings prevent the actual punishment of foreign entities. The third amendment is to clarify the existing rules for checking compliance with road transport obligations and conditions and to initiate administrative proceedings to meet the requirement of good repute. Fourth amendment - clarification of the existing rules on the functioning of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, in which, among others, information is collected on serious infringements of EU rules and their qualifications, which could lead to the loss of the good reputation of the road carrier. In order to implement certain provisions of Directive 2015/719 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the definition of intermodal transport and shipping operations has been added to the Road Transport Act. An obligation has been introduced for the consignor to draw up and forward to the road carrier a declaration specifying the weight of the container and the replacement body as determined in accordance with the actual state. Introduced for road transport operator carrying out intermodal transport operations, i.e. the carriage of cargo using more than one means of transport, the obligation to present, at the request of the competent inspection authority, a declaration specifying the weight of the container and the replacement body as determined in a manner consistent with the actual state. If these obligations are not complied with by the consignor or the road carrier carrying out the intermodal transport operation, a specific monetary penalty is provided for. A provision imposing an obligation on a provincial inspector to plan and organise checks on vehicles or combinations of vehicles in such a way as to cover at least 5% the total number of checks on road transport carried out in each calendar year. The proposed law introduces additional amendments which go beyond the scope of the implementation of European Union law. These are among others. the following amendments to the provisions of the Law of 20 June 1997 on Road Traffic Law. A provision is added which provides that a non-normative vehicle with an authorisation which does not correspond to actual technical parameters is a non-normative vehicle without authorisation. A provision is added which provides for the possibility of imposing a penalty of a kind of administrative decision for breaching the rules on non-normative vehicle piloting and determining the amount of that penalty. The responsibility of the carrier shall be clearly regulated. The provision concerning the required non-normative vehicle authorisation for the carriage of a combination of vehicles consisting of more than the permitted act is also clarified. The issue of the removal from the road of a foreign vehicle of an entity established in a country with which the Republic of Poland is not bound by a mutual enforcement agreement is also regulated. To sum up, the proposed changes are expected to contribute to better supervision of the transport services market in Poland. In addition, they will effectively eliminate unfair competition between carriers and ensure greater protection of the internal market against unfair competition from non-EU carriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u339	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Some of my amazement is the situation that we have here at the moment: the white and red flags, the flags of the European Union, not one Member of the Platform, not one Member of the Modern House. [[What? What?]] Oh, there's one. I am so sorry, Mr President, I am so sorry. [[Please.]] But there's no one from Modern City. However, the law is very important because the law we are talking about adapts the law of the European Union to Polish law... Conversely: Polish law to European Union law. Indeed, the project categorizes the violation of various laws. The project allows to exchange information between Poland and the European Union. This exchange of information concerns very important issues and transparency in this area is as expected by Polish carriers. We are dealing quite often with violations by drivers, usually they are accused of various types of irregularities, but we are also dealing with violations by managers of companies. The draft law is precisely this issue that it agrees and implements. The Act specifies the issue of good reputation. The loss of good reputation is one of the greatest damage that the entrepreneur may suffer, and in this draft law from this printing we implement the request to protect good reputation. As regards the definitions of intermodal transport and so-called "intermodal transport." the sender, it is with these writings to the dictionary of concepts that we introduce new concepts. In this way the Road Transport Act, hereinafter referred to as the Road Transport Act, the Road Traffic Law of 20 June 1997 and the Act of 19 August 2011 on the Carriage of Dangerous Goods, will be very precise to say that we are simply fulfilling European law. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of adopting these provisions, for implementing the provisions contained in this printing, which I am doing herewith on behalf of the parliamentary club, recommending that all provisions of this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u341	Thank you. [[I'm so sorry. I didn't see you there.]] [[Apology accepted.]] Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u342	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws contained in print No 2459. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the revised Road Transport Act is to adapt the current regulations to the requirements of Union law resulting from Commission Regulation No 403 of 18 March 2016 laying down the types and gravity of individual infringements of Community law. To this end, the government project provides, in particular, for substantial amendments to the three annexes to the Road Transport Act and in the Annex to the Dangerous Goods Transport Act, as well as for a change in the form of liability of certain entities for violations of obligations and conditions of carriage by road. The main flaw in the proposed rules on sanctioning infringements is that a particular infringement can be borne by the driver, the transport manager and the transport operator. This is unacceptable. The liability should be borne by the entity that contributed to the infringement. Punishment for the same violation cannot be duplicated. To date, the imposition of a penalty is in violation of our law, i.e. only in cases where a specific person, a particular employee, has been found guilty. This regulation was developed in 2011 in cooperation with the interested environments with Members of all policy options. Today, it is proposed to impose administrative penalties, so without investigating the involvement of the blamed person. It is enough to state that there is a breach of the law. Consequently, a worker who has no impact on the infringement may be punished and the imposition of a penalty may also result in a loss of professional qualifications by the worker, which is carried out automatically in practice in connection with other provisions. And, for example, the worker may lose his right to work as transport manager for a period of one year. The proposed amendment has nothing to do with the implementation of Union law. It shall be introduced only to facilitate the work of the inspection services. I would like to remind you: I was very firm in presenting my club's position against the proposal to place toll collection on the roads in the Road Transport Inspection because of the burden of duty of this service. Now this flawed regulation the government is trying to help, of course, at the expense of entrepreneurs. Furthermore, the amount of the fines should be proportionate to the seriousness of the infringement. Growth proposed in the revision not more than 100% is difficult to accept because there is no rational justification. There is no mention in the justification for the bill on this subject. The current rules on penalties for infringements of the rules governing road transport and the level of sanctions are the subject of a compromise which takes into account the principle of fairness. As the practice points out, they have led to a real reduction in the number of infringements. Unless, High Izbo, the proposed regulations are a desperate search for financial resources in the pockets of road transport operators following an easy distribution of money from the state budget. Therefore, my club's position on this project will be presented after work in committee, during which, I hope, we will improve this very harmful project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u343	Thank you. The other representatives of the clubs have written their speeches. So we move on to asking questions. The question was addressed by one Member who also put his question in writing. So, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u344	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Please answer the following questions: What impact will this law have on the revenue of the State budget for penalties and fines imposed for breach of obligations or conditions of carriage of goods within a few years of its entry into force? Please provide data to justify an increase of up to 100% the amount of fines proposed in the Act. In view of the proposed changes in the possibility to initiate proceedings concerning good repute in the event of minor infringements, does the legislator recognise the risk of the use of a dangerous tool by inspection bodies which will allow them to impose penalties or take away appropriate powers from carriers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle a position towards the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. The proposed amendments result from the need to adapt Polish legislation to EU requirements. The commitments were imposed on us by Commission Regulation (EU) No 2016/403 of 18 March 2016 relating to the classification of serious infringements of Union rules which could lead to the loss of good repute by the road carrier and amending Annex III to Directive 2006/22/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposed amendments to the Road Transport Act will ensure that the control powers of the Road Transport Inspections are aligned with the existing Union rules governing the construction and operation of recording equipment used in road transport. The above cases will be dealt with, after the revision, in Article. 4. The Law of 20 June 1997 proposed road traffic law, among others. changes that will make the journey of any non-standard combination of vehicles required to be authorised by category VII. Where the authorities authorised to check the absence of an authorisation of an appropriate category, III-VI, the penalty shall be imposed as if it were not authorised. This will be governed by the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall One of the changes that will be made in the Act of 19 August 2011 on the Carriage of Dangerous Goods will be the arrangement of the infringement system. Their description has been clarified and the amount of fines provided for them has been adjusted according to their categorisation. It is envisaged to amend the provisions of the Act indicating the distinctness of checks on compliance with the obligations of carriage of dangerous goods by means of enabling the competent minister to define a separate model for the control protocol for such carriage, to highlight the distinctiveness of the infringement of administrative proceedings and the autonomous nature of the decision imposing a penalty. In addition, the Act will amend administrative fines for infringements relating to the carriage of dangerous goods by road. This is due to the need to carry out an appropriate gradation of those penalties in relation to the category of infringements provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/403. In view of the change of responsibility of transport managers or other activities relating to transport from criminal to administrative traffic, it is necessary to introduce a rule that the provisions of the proposed law applicable to acts committed by those persons before the date of entry into force of the proposed law will continue to apply to them, so that they will continue to be subject to criminal liability in this respect. This shall be governed by Article. 8. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The deadline has been set for the transmission to the Chief Inspector of Road Transport by the Chief Police Officer, the Head of the Border Guard, the Head of the National Tax Administration and the Provincial Road Transport Inspector of the first aggregated information concerning the control of the masses of vehicles or vehicle combinations referred to in the draft Article. 90a. In addition, a deadline has been set for the first transmission by the main road transport inspector to the European Commission of data relating to the checks carried out on the masses of vehicles or combinations of vehicles, no later than 30 September 2020. This proposal clarifies the existing rules on checks on compliance with road transport obligations and conditions and provides for appropriate amendments to the Annexes to the Road Transport Act and the Dangerous Goods Transport Act of 19 August 2011. Changes are necessary due to EU legislation and therefore the Free and Solidarni area supports the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u346	The draft amendment eliminates unfair competition between carriers and provides greater protection for the internal market against unfair competition from non-EU carriers. According to the project, the so-called category was categorized. serious violations of obligations and conditions of road transport: the most serious infringement - NN, the very serious infringement - BPN and the serious infringement - NSA, which will allow the automatic exchange of information between Poland and EU countries. New solutions assume that a serious infringement, a very serious infringement or a serious infringement may be committed not only by the road carrier and the transport manager, but also by the driver. In contrast, the initiation of proceedings to meet the requirement of good repute will depend on the frequency of infringements. The draft provides that when intermodal transport is carried out, the consignor will have to draw up and forward to the road carrier a declaration stating correctly the weight of the container or swap body. On the other hand, the road carrier will have to present a declaration at the request of the authorised inspection body. A new type of responsibility for transport managers - from criminal to administrative - should be considered important. The maximum fine for the driver after one check will be 2 000. zł. The PSL-UED Parliamentary Club, noting some shortcomings in the proposed law, which should be brought to an end during further legislative work, is in favour of further work in the relevant parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws included in print No 2459. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law presented by the Government, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is the result of Poland's need to comply with the obligations imposed by Regulation No 2016/403 of the European Commission of 18 March 2016 supplementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the classification of serious infringements which may lead to the loss of good reputation of road transport operator and amending Annex 3 to Directive No 2006/ 22/EU for rules on the qualification of infringements concerning road transport. As a result of the adoption of the amendment, the following laws will be amended: on road transport, on road traffic law and on the transport of dangerous goods. The submission also provides for amendments to the annexes to the Road Transport Act and the Dangerous Goods Import Act. The amendment introduces additional changes that go beyond the scope of the implementation of European law. That's where we start. Well, I don't understand that the government decided to include two different scopes of change in one project. The changes resulting from European law are, in a sense, obvious. And while we sometimes have a certain degree of flexibility in transposing these changes, in principle European legislation is quite concrete and it is difficult to have a deeper debate on the content of such a change in this case. What's different is the changes proposed by the government, so let me put it in my own hands. In this situation, we should have a very detailed debate on the need for these changes. Our transport industry has been particularly treated for many years, euphemistically speaking, by our partners for their activity in the European market. This most often takes the form of various types of bureaucratic barriers, which constitute an obstacle and at the same time a challenge for our industry. It is difficult to agree that the Polish government will also implement solutions that complicate the activities of our entrepreneurs even more. For the modern economy, the whole transport industry is the one that must be supported in this unequal competition on the European market. It is hard to resist the impression that such a combination in a single amendment on the one hand of European legislation, on the other hand, the new ideas of the PiS government are intended to avoid discussing the changes proposed by the PiS government and which cause further complications for our transport industry. The Modern Parliamentary Club considers it very reprehensible. I will ignore the fact that the government's public consultation on this bill by almost all participants of this consultation is called one big mistake, from which absolutely nothing was apparent. Due to the thinness of time, it is not possible to put forward a detailed position on this draft law, therefore, in addition to the important issue of protecting our transport industry and the issue that I have raised about combining two different legislative actions in one project, I will focus on two more aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, here I will use the position of the social side, the Tripartite Committee on road transport, which coincides with the proposals of the Modern Posel Club. It shows that the voice of the social side is completely ignored by the PiS government. It is worth noting that this position is common to both the representative party of the employees and the representative party of the employers. The first controversy concerns the proposed revision of the assessment procedure identified by the Road Transport Inspection and other legitimate services of infringements of Community and national law and the related sanctions imposed on workers carrying out so-called activities. transport management. To date, the imposition of a penalty on these workers could only have occurred if a specific person was found guilty. If it could not be found guilty, the procedure was terminated. The PiS government proposes in the amendment that the imposition of sanctions on employees be carried out in an administrative manner, on the basis of the so-called. objective guilt. The person's guilt is not investigated in this proceeding. It is enough to state that there is a breach of the law in order to impose sanctions. And it does not matter in this case whether the blamed employee actually caused an infringement by his actions or omission. In this situation, a person may be punished even if he had no influence on the infringement. This amendment proposed by the government has nothing to do with the implementation of Union law. This hit on transport workers is the author's idea of Law and Justice. And these changes must be assessed clearly negatively as absolutely unacceptable. In a state of law, in order to punish anyone, blame must be proved. Meanwhile, the PiS government is again taking shortcuts, again breaking the basic rule of the rule of law and again hitting transport workers. The modern one is very negative about these proposals. The second thing I want to say is that it has become almost a secular tradition of the PiS government. More government projects are systematically sent to the High House, which increase the penalties imposed on the transport industry. Further projects contain further constraints, further burdens, and with these constraints and burdens new penalties are emerging or are increasing. As if there were few new obstacles for the transport industry from our foreign partners. In line with this new tradition of the PiS government, which raises taxes, which raises penalties, which introduces new sanctions, it has also presented further proposals in this proposal to increase the level of sanctions imposed on workers and employers. Of course, we are all fully aware that certain penalties are necessary for infringements. However, this should be a compromise which respects the parties' right. However, the proposal presented by the PiS government is far in breach not only of the compromise, but also of the principle of fairness, which raises the social side. Therefore, also in this respect Poselski Club The modern very negative assessment of the further increase of penalties proposed by the PiS government for the transport industry. High Izbo, in connection with my position on behalf of the Posel Club Modernly, I request that the project be sent to the committee for further work to remove all these bad proposals of the PiS government from the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u348	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 2459, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee by 5 June 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, a five-minute break is due to the fact that Minister Tchórzewski must reach us, which will provide a justification for the next item of our meeting. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 37 hours 17 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws (prints No 2411 and No 2411-A). I ask the Minister of Energy of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law on amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and some other laws actually refers to the government's draft establishment of the Low Emissions Transport Fund. The draft of this law is to indicate the beneficiaries of this fund and what the fund has transport tasks in Polish cities. The fund is to finance zero- and low-carbon transport in Polish cities. The beneficiaries of this fund will be entrepreneurs, local authorities as well as research and education institutions. The first funds of this fund will be mobilised in 2019. The funds from the Low carbon Transport Fund will provide real support to Polish producers. Entrepreneurs will be able to finance, among others. investments in the production of alternative fuels, tests and implementation of innovative solutions for developing new alternative fuels or innovative design solutions and the construction of a network of electric vehicle charging stations or filling both liquefied gas and frozen gas or hydrogen. In this way we want to use the potential of Polish scientists, research centres and entrepreneurs to build a new branch of Polish industry. This will create a system in which scientific and research agendas will work widely with business, among others. through funding from the research fund and implementation of ready-made solutions. Electromobility and the alternative fuel sector are an expression of our aspirations to create business and technological solutions in Poland, which will constitute a competitive counterweight in our country. Under this fund we plan to finance the purchase of tens of thousands of electric cars together with the construction of electric car charging infrastructure in Poland in the number of about 20 thousand. charging points throughout the country. In 2019, aid for buying an electric car may already amount to around 25 000. Evil on the vehicle. In the following years, the level of support will depend on the needs of the customers and the development of the market. The funding for the construction of charging points may amount to up to 5% of the cost of building such a point in the first period, but as with the support for the purchase of a vehicle, we will respond flexibly to the signals from the market regarding the need to increase or reduce support for these investments from public money. At the same time, we maintain our readiness to join the fund with funds of about PLN 1 billion in the production of electric cars in Poland. Our goal is to actively participate in industrial projects that will determine the competitiveness of the Polish economy in the coming decades. These activities are intended to encourage drivers, companies and local authorities to support the use of zero- and low-carbon modes of transport. The effective effect of these initiatives will be to reduce smog. Therefore, money outside entrepreneurs will go to local governments, which in particular during the autumn-winter period are faced with a problem of low air quality. Social research shows that more than half of Poles consider smog to be a serious threat, identifying the transport sector as the main cause of air pollution and looking at environmentally friendly vehicles to address this problem. The government agrees with Poles on this issue, which is why a project for the establishment of the Low Carbon Transport Fund has been prepared. The government strongly responds to the expectations of Poles about improving the quality of life not only in the largest cities, but also in smaller centres. In the development of electromobility, smaller cities, with a population of several thousand, were also involved at the very beginning. This shows the level of government's aspirations for modernisation and we want to support these aspirations. It is also worth pointing out here the cost of air pollution, both material and incalculable for money, that is, human. The expenditure of the National Health Fund itself for the treatment of respiratory diseases, respiratory and thoracic malignancies amounts to over PLN 3 billion per year, PLN 3.5 billion. So within two years, the fund spends more on this than the 10-year budget of the Low Carbon Transport Fund. It is also estimated that about 45 thousand. people die in Poland every year prematurely because of diseases caused by smog. I would like to stress that the proposal to set up the Low Emission Transport Fund should be seen as a whole, not only with the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, but also with the draft Law on the Quality of Solid Fuels, as a certain regulatory package. The individual heat sources, the low-quality fuel they often use and the transport sector are two main sources of air pollution. Therefore, the only way to combat smog effectively is to solve the problem in these areas in a comprehensive way. These laws create a package for clean cities prepared by the Ministry of Energy in cooperation with other resorts. This package for clean cities gives us real regulatory and financial tools to fight smog, which will soon provide Poles with the air quality they expect for themselves and their children. I would like to stress that the funds for this fund will come from an issue fee of PLN 8 and will be divided: 15% for the Low carbon Transport Fund and 85% to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, for all tasks related to environmental activities, the fight against smog, to reduce emissions and in general to promote air cleanliness. I would also like to point out, because there have been allegations that this charge will be an additional social cost and that it will increase the price of fuel in the market, to stress that, ladies and gentlemen, year by year in 2016 alone, fuel sales increased by around 16%. , and the comparison of 2016 to 2017 - 2016 is a new regulation sealing the VAT system and all payments in general, the circulation of money in terms of fuel sales - is an increase in fuel sales by 21%. This resulted in a significant increase in the profitability of fuel companies, those which determine the wholesale price of fuel - among others. I can state that Orlen's profit for 2017 exceeded PLN 7 billion - and for this reason, because of the objective in which they want to participate, and the purpose in which they want to participate, is also the fight against smog, which causes fuel, these companies, the management boards of these companies decided that due to the introduction of this charge they would not raise the price of fuel, agreeing to a small reduction in the profitability of their own companies. I stress this after the discussion, after the declarations of the management boards and after our meeting today at a conference related to the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels, which at this conference clearly stressed the desire to take part in the fight against emissions. So for this reason, I am authorized at this point, taking into account the declarations which have been given to me to declare in the presentation of this law that this law will not result in an increase in the price of fuels on the market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u350	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please adopt, at first reading, a draft government bill amending the Biocomponents Act, liquid biofuels and certain other laws, prints No 2411 and No 2411-A. We must be aware that the transport sector has a negative impact on air quality. Transport currently accounts for 25% of all greenhouse gas emissions and 70% emissions come from road transport alone. In large Polish cities and in heavily urbanized areas, most of the air pollution comes from the transport sector. Forecasts show that transport can become the main source of emissions in the European Union by 2030 and therefore the sector needs decisive reforms. Poland wants to work side by side with other European countries to implement initiatives to reconcile the needs of new mobility of citizens with the protection of their health, as well as the protection of the environment. The draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid Biofuels establishing the Low Emission Transport Fund together with the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels constitutes a comprehensive regulatory package, as the Fund will finance the initiatives and objectives provided for in the Act on Electromobility, as well as in strategic documents such as the electromobility development plan in Poland and the National Framework for Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Development Policy. The actions of the Polish government proposed in this regulatory package to finance projects related to the development of electromobility and transport based on alternative fuels are in line with initiatives undertaken by the European Union in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! These documents, led by the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, are implemented in the Polish law establishing a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure. According to the Clean Transport Package announced in the European Union in November 2017, actions to improve transport organisation will be crucial in the coming years - including, in particular, increased efficiency and the integration of different modes of transport - to popularise clean, less emission vehicles by introducing new emission limits, as well as increasing the availability of alternative energy for the transport industry, among others. by building the right infrastructure. The Low Carbon Transport Fund will be a tool for implementing these objectives at national level. Support under the Transport Low Emission Fund will receive initiatives related to the development of electromobility, i.e. electric vehicles and infrastructure for charging them. Projects related to alternative fuels such as hydrogen, CNG and LNG will also be supported. The scope of the projects that will be eligible for funding is very wide. They will be supported, among others. producers of means of transport, self-governments and investing in clean public transport entities planning to purchase new vehicles, as well as research and science institutions. The Fund will also subsidise initiatives related to promotion and education in the use of alternative fuels in transport. FNT is therefore a real tool for supporting Polish companies competing with entities from the most economically developed countries of the European Union. Today we create a legislative space and conditions for Poland to develop a new innovative and competitive market for electromobility and alternative fuels. Our task is to create optimal support instruments to stimulate the popularisation of electromobility and alternative fuels. In my opinion, the Low Carbon Transport Fund is such a tool. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u352	Thank you. I invite Mr Łukasz Rzepecki from the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u353	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! President Jarosław Kaczyński spoke very rightly a few years ago, and I quote: You don't have to be a driver to know that gasoline has become very, very expensive. That is why I would like to remind you of a spot that has not been present for so long. [[Mr Łukasz Rzepecki plays the recording]] [[- I think they're crazy. You know it's after 5:40?]] [[Then I don't know how we're gonna handle it.]] [[- Do you remember when we left four years ago and a liter was four zlotys?]] [[- And Tusk then threatened that Kaczyński would be 5 zlotys. I wonder what he'll come up with now.]] [[- It's gonna be even more expensive.]] [[- Oh, come on. How much? Seven, eight zlotys? Who's gonna hold it?]] [[- That's too bad.]] [[More than half the price of petrol is tax. The government can reduce them. I'd lower my excise duty, which would lower the price of gasoline, but that takes courage and responsibility.]] [[Legal and Justice Election Committee material)]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore appeal to your Members of the Law and Justice for courage and responsibility, for you to vote against this law because it is a disgraceful act. As you know, fuel prices are rising from month to month. They're already oscillating around 5 zlotys today. Anyone run by a citizen a thousand kilometers will cost him more by 100 zlotys. I therefore appeal to you: be courageous and oppose this anti-human act. It's a return to the gasoline+ project. Ladies and gentlemen! You're going through the Civic Platform. The Civic Platform in its governments also raised fuel prices and also raised taxes. You're doing exactly the same thing. That's not what you said when you were in opposition, and that's not what you say when you're in charge. What have you done? VAT remained at 23% , and was to be reduced to 22% 6 billion a year eludes taxpayers' pockets. The Power Market Act - an increase in energy price, 3.8 billion eludes taxpayers' pockets. Water law - 2.6 billions of zlotys elude taxpayers' pockets. Increase in water and sewage prices by 9%. Now the issue fee. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a robbery out of taxpayers' pockets. 2.5 billion PLN. I hear here the Ministry of Energy saying that this project doesn't strike in the pocket of an ordinary citizen. Point 3 of the BAS opinion: Given the consumption of motor fuels for petrol and diesel, this could increase by about PLN 2.5 billion. Point 5: In the event that the entities liable to pay the issue fee transfer its effects to buyers, the fuel price may increase by around 10 gr in 2017. Dear Minister, at least don't miss the truth and tell the truth. Don't you have any money, ladies and gentlemen? Begin with your privileges, with the liquidation of political offices, party subsidies, labour offices - we as Kukiz.15 see where the money is, where they lie - and do not put your hands in the pockets of ordinary Poles. Therefore, as the Kukiz club15, we propose that the draft law on amending the Law on liquid biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws be rejected in full at the first reading of the Sejm. You're welcome, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u354	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski from Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here, a colleague presented a theme related to the replacement fee and the Low Carbon Transport Fund. I do not doubt that the Biocomponents and Fuels Act is important, that really some solutions are worthwhile and demanding for entrepreneurs here, but the sad thing is that the issue of entering the clean transport zones is repeated again. Minister, we agreed together in the electromobility bill that this fee is not the best idea, given the wealth of citizens and the difficult availability of electric cars and, little of that, the imperfection of these cars, the lack of charging stations throughout Poland. You have to move step by step, you have to, first, eliminate excise duty on modern cars, including hybrid cars, not only hybrids with plug-in, which already have a reduction in excise duty. And here I'd decide to discourse and seriously think about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] above such a fee for citizens. That is what I would like you to do, however, to conduct a possible project without the burden of the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u356	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Exactly 10 months ago, on 6 July 2017, PiS Members submitted a draft law on the Fund for Self-Government Roads in the Sejm. Perhaps not all of you remember the admiration of government benches, the personal support of the then Prime Minister and Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk, how important and long awaited this project was. Mr Bogdan Rzońc pushed this project through the committee in a few hours. This brilliant project was actually limited to one thing: to impose a new fuel tax + 25 gr/l on Poles. Following strong protests, opposition to imposing further taxes on citizens, the PiS withdrew from this extremely harmful project relatively quickly. It would seem that after such an experience, the PiS will never return to the idea of imposing additional tax burdens on fuel, which are increasingly expensive every week. For your information, the price of unleaded petrol has increased by more than 10% over the last 10 months. and diesel by more than 15%. Especially high or rapid price growth is in recent weeks, exactly from the moment of entering or coming to Orlen Daniel Obajtka - he is doing this buffer so that he can meet the Minister's expectations today, because he has already paid us all a few weeks ago. I would like to make it very clear that many of you probably do not see any connection between the Self-Government Road Fund Act and the bill proposed by the Minister. It is, this connection is obvious. In this law, you also impose a new tax - fuel tax+ of 10 gr/l, together with VAT. As you can see, nothing has changed with you: bonus+ for your own, and for Poles a wide range of new tax charges, such as bank tax, trade tax, tax on shopping galleries, which today has been extended to other properties, water+, energy+, today you are finalizing fuel+, and of course you still have a higher VAT rate. Now the Prime Minister is mumbling about the solidarity tax. This is a nightmare. [[What do you mean, muttering?]] [[But don't disturb me!]] Prime Minister, you'd like to say, "Down, down... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u358	Quiet in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u359	Spare me the shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u360	Mr. President, one second. [[Voice from the hall: A little culture is in place.]] Gentlemen, don't shout, okay? I won't tolerate it. [[Voice from the room: Pay attention, because it is not mumbling, this gentleman may be mumbling.]] Now, now, that's enough. [[Game in the O.R.]] That's enough, that's enough. Continue, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u361	Two weeks ago, he was mumbling something under his nose that he was gonna introduce an extra tribute... [[You're mumbling.]] ...in the form of a solidarity tax... [[You're babbling.]] ...which will finance the programme on the needs of people with disabilities. As you know, today is three weeks since people with disabilities are present in the building of the Sejm. You cannot implement this very important, important social agenda. And you're not gonna yell at any of those important social facts you need to talk about here. I must admit that there are also some provisions in this law in my assessment of the importance that would be worth taking time, but unfortunately, I was prevented by the PiS Members. It could have been handled as early as January when we had the electromobility bill here. We voted against this bill in the end because you didn't have the will to discuss it. You've also pushed this very important bill in one day. But I'd like to say a few things. The income of the low-carbon fund, which you spoke about here, will amount to PLN 6750 million within 10 years. You said something today about $25,000. Car payments. Where's the bonus coming from? In the explanatory memorandum, you do not write anything about it in the text of the Act. But if there was a bill like that, we'd only buy 270 grand for it. vehicles, and three months ago, you were talking about 1 million. Where's the construction of the charging station? And where is all the infrastructure to be created? After all, it is mostly for this that the means will go. But, interestingly enough, you will collect PLN 14.5 billion in 10 years, and you will use only 6.75. In addition, you write in the impact assessment that citizens will pay 17.3 billion. I'm looking for... It doesn't happen here. Where did you lose that money, where did you take 3 billion zlotys? Because that money doesn't really exist. Finally, the issue of smog is very important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, if the government intends to allocate PLN 1 billion to liquidate smog in Poland, to improve air quality, we will never solve the problem of air pollution. This requires several billion zlotys per year, not 1 billion. You must come, find out how much the boilers cost, how much the new technologies cost, so that you know exactly what resources are needed and what resources the government must guarantee for this task. Thank you very much. [[Throw it away!]] And, Marshal, at the end of the motion for rejection at first reading. I'm sorry, I lost a minute for something else.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u362	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With this smog it was: not so long ago, 1.5 years ago, the Minister of Health said that it was a marginal phenomenon and that there was nothing to worry about, which probably moved us all, because today we see what the problem is. The Minister of Health is gone. That was the case, sir. The smog is and the smog must be fought, but the fight must be real. These are difficult actions. Today, with what the government has presented to us, we are not going to eliminate this smog in any way, because these are huge costs and big money is needed, as well as we are not going to free from the day of electromobility and we are not going to have a million of these cars. On the other hand, fuel prices will increase, and they have already increased since the proposal to introduce this levy has been made. Now the Minister here boasts about how great is the profitability of state Treasury companies, fuel companies: Orlenu, Lotus. Then why not lower the wholesale price? The question is why you can't lower your excise duty, give people a normal price of fuel, instead of lifting, raise the price of fuel so you can say: no, the price didn't increase. The price of fuel is now artificially elevated because money is needed for the national development foundation. Or maybe you don't pay for a national development foundation and give people money in the form of just a lower fuel price? Another thing that I think is worrying and important is the issue of biocomponents and biofuels. Today, a dramatic situation begins. The biofuel market was developing well for the production of rape in Poland. She grew from year to year. Today, if there is no cataclysm, but there is a very low price, there is drama. As a result of various actions at the moment, there is a decrease in demand for rape oil, and producers are already experiencing drama after last year's campaign. Unfinished supplies from last season are still in store, and in less than two months there will be new rapeseed. There is a dramatic situation in terms of this production. Many entrepreneurs have invested in this production, and today we say that we are raising the price of fuel, we are no longer interested in biocomponents. Minister, producers and rape processors are calling for an alarm. Something has to be done about it, which is why we can't go by it. Polish People's Party will absolutely not allow itself and people to convince themselves that raising fuel prices is the best solution. It had to be reduced first, rationally managed in companies of the Treasury, not boasting about what great profits we have, and now reaching out to the inhabitants, to the citizens, practically everyone, because it will translate not only into those who use motor vehicles, but also into the whole transport, into the whole economy. The Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats supports the proposal to reject this at first reading. I don't think you can... You want to take advantage of the president's absence, because when the president was, he said no, we don't move in, and you pulled out. There's no president, and you're bringing the fuel tax back. or whatever you want to call him. Just wait until the president gets back, and make your decisions then, not in the absence of the president. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The Unreplaceable Chairman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik from the Civic Platform has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform wanted to present its position on the proposed amendment of the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. At the outset, I must draw attention to a few facts. The first, essential, is the mere quality and randomness of the proposed or discussed legal act. This legislation is intended to improve the Biocomponents and Biofuels Act revised in November 2017. At this committee meeting, the Minister was absent, there were two ministers present, and in principle the lobbyists present in the Chamber were in this discussion because the government could not answer the question of what was the essence of the proposed change. Today, in the justification of the self-correction, we write that we are improving it. It's still unclear, it's not obvious, and it doesn't do anything. This is even outside the existing conceptual network. No one can understand that. The bill we are discussing entered the Sejm in April 2018 and in the same month the government self-corrected itself. Well, that's a pretty good sign of mediocrity. The proposed act, please note, amends the law passed in this House in January 2018. You have not paid attention to the comments made to the so-called law. electromobility. There's 16 shifts. Please note how much has happened in a short time, and this does not affect the quality of the law at all. The law, returning to the substance, is another racket that the Poles currently impose on them, creating a Low-carbon Transport Fund. The revenue of this fund is to ensure that anyone who buys 1 l of petrol or diesel reaches 10 gr, no matter what the 1 l of fuel buys. This undoubted increase in fuel prices will also be passed on to the price that the consumer will have to pay for the goods purchased, as the price increase will be a natural consequence of the increase in fuel price. Increasing fuel prices This is not the only result of this law. Please note that the proceeds of the fund are also to be payments made by the electricity transmission system operator, i.e. for the creation of this fund they will also pay electricity consumers. And here's my question. How much will the operator have to pay back for this fund every year? Quasi-taxes imposed in this Act are further taxes that have recently been imposed on Poles. In the hallway, let me remind you, another tax awaits, which is a consequence of the Power Market Act. Further taxes will come along with further ideas that come from the energy department as well. What else? This law duplicates those functions which are carried out by other institutions, with different successes, and I do not want to judge them, especially by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The Fund runs several projects related to the development of low-carbon transport, the development of the fight for clean air. Projects are carried out: E-bus, Gazela bis, Falcon. This was why the law was amended so that the national fund could achieve these goals. The creation of another state special-purpose fund is nothing more than the creation of a new institution to pursue the same objectives. This raises the question: What are the actual reasons and reasons why these institutions are being created? Isn't it unnecessary to waste money, smear responsibility, when we easily raise money, because getting money from fuel is an endless source of revenue, and then it will be easy to spend it? This law, which is very dangerous, creates an instrumentarium to equip other social groups with money obtained from Poles. Please note, I will not deal with all forms, but one form is lending. Please note that this law refers to the fact that these loans may be cancelled. So I'll get the money from the fuel, I'll give, because I can give, in uncompetitive mode, anyone I want, and then [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can cancel this loan. The relief depends on whether I can fit in or do the contract. Please note how the investment was carried out in Kozienice. It was supposed to be done initially by July, the contract was annexed, the deadline was postponed to December, saying that everything was okay. The investment was carried out on time and the Prime Minister was able to boast about how great we are. Of course, everything can be generated, justified and led to money being drawn from Poles and equipped with this money by specific groups.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u366	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u367	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the proposed legislative act be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u368	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS is once again trying to push through a harmful law aimed at increasing fuel prices. The funds obtained were supposed to be used to fight smog. But why do you want to do it at the expense of Poles? First you give the Poles money, then double the money. Lower your taxes and stop milking us, and you should be looking for resources to fight the smog. If you hadn't spent it on so-called. The second salary, i.e. prizes, for the works of Tadeusz Rydzyk or for the flight of the party nominates or for new limos, is that money would certainly be found and you wouldn't have to tax Poles. Poles would not have to pay another tax. Minister! Fuel prices are rising at the stations. Why do you want to tax Poles before holidays? Why do you want Poles to pay 10 gr more for 1 l of fuel? Do you know how much the fuel price is at this point in time? I'll tell you, about 59%. are taxes at the price of 1 l of fuel. I know, Minister, that you're using a limo and you're completely out of reality. You don't know how much gas costs, you don't know that Poles really have to pay for them. And a few years ago President Kaczyński said that the fuel is too expensive and that the excise duty must be reduced. What about those promises? Nothing, as usual. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Blażej Parda, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm still in shock because I haven't heard that gibberish in a while. [[Voice from the room: Like everyone else.]] What was presented there, what was read, is some kind of mush. I felt like I was part of some $5,000 pot sale. PLN 200. [[Voice from the room: Oh...]] That justification was very weak. You're offering us a super-healthy and wonderful life. Just pay me. 10 gr more for fuel, and we'll all live beautifully and wonderfully. Well, that's not gonna happen, because we know exactly what it is. Only 15% From this amount you want to raise, it will go on this low-carbon issue of electric cars theoretically, although we will see how it will be. You should be ashamed that you want to go this way so badly that you go to such tricks and do not even really wonder what the economic and economic consequences will be for all Poles. Law and Justice, of course, follow the footsteps of the Civic Platform. There was a fuel charge, now there will be a low-carbon fee. I think this is the next moment for you to shake hands. You are leaders in raising taxes in Poland. You can shake your hands here now, maybe hug. Question: "How do we, Poles, operate in a country where taxes are constantly raised?" Your promises were completely different. I'm already skipping what you said in the campaign, because we know that practically no one's done their show yet, but at least have some pride, think about it, maybe there are smart people among you who might be able to find that money. It's not that they're gone. But the Minister says 15%. bigger sales. It's already billions of zlotys, billions a year. So money is real. The question is, why do you want to take even more money to Poles, especially during the season, soon, holiday, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's an agricultural thing. We're all gonna pay for this. You do not, indeed, drive limos, but Poles will pay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Why did the government lead to such an increase in the price of liquid fuels? Because it's because of the government that our prices have risen so much. The Minister himself said that today we have profits in the Treasury companies in Orlena, Lotus, which we did not even expect ourselves to make. Well, success, full success. But it's at the expense of those who use fuel. Someone will say, and it will probably appear in the discussion: And in your governments, what were the prices? Just take into account that at that time the barrel of oil cost $150, then we had to force our country to lower excise duty, lower profits in the Treasury companies to maintain the price, stabilize it, and today you do everything you can to keep the price going up. Is it decent, or is this the right thing to do - to pick up Poles? Because you pluck Poles in this way, enjoying: we are developing an economy, look at the profits. Only that these profits come from the pockets of entrepreneurs and citizens who pay for fuel. Is that moral? Didn't the government wonder for a moment that we should lean on this and maybe start working to stabilise fuel prices rather than enjoy the increase, because then we have big profits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law also improves the law on electromobility. We're fighting the smog, we're telling the local governments to bring in electric cars, and we're releasing them to 50,000. residents, or more than 96% the general public. Creating an obligation, and then releasing almost everyone from it, doesn't make any sense at all. It's like small municipalities are exempt from the obligation to separate waste. Michael Porter, the world's largest authority in the field of competitiveness, wrote very clearly that, in order to develop a new sector, the state itself must set a good example. For municipalities it is an expense fully to bear, and such a form of promotion of clean transport will reach everyone, will also speed up the construction of a fast charging station and will show people that it is time to change. And many people who care about the environment are ready for these changes. So I'm asking you why we need a duty if almost everyone is exempt from it. What's that supposed to do? Pretending to do something? We'd better do something real. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two lines. A few days ago, Minister Tchórzewski said that Poland is becoming the leader of electromobility. I must tell you that from the publicly available data, recently published, we are in the penultimate position in terms of the number of electric cars per 10,000. newly registered petrol cars. It is only 12 pieces, the penultimate place. And when it comes to the number of high-speed charging stations for electric cars, we're at the end, too. We have fewer stations than Slovenia, Estonia, Czech Republic. We've got 142 of them in total. That's the leader we are, Minister. I propose that you go down to the ground and take care of the real problem-solving, encouraging us to become one in the future, because you just listened to Morawiecki, who was deluding two years ago, that we would have a million cars. We still don't have those electric cars today. Now I'm moving on to a very important issue, because 85% resources from fuel+ is intended to be used to combat smog. First of all, I want to say July Ub. When Water Law was adopted in this Chamber, a new tax imposed on citizens, one of the sources of funding for Polish Waters was revenue collected by the National Environmental Protection Fund, i.e. approx. PLN 500 million. You took the money from the fund, saying that the fund is rich, he can afford other elements. Today we see that the money is empty. Rydzyk has drained 100 million PLN, there is no commitment, you must desperately look for money. Minister! If we have 2 million boilers to replace, which will cost about PLN 24 billion, how can you push for a program in which several billion zlotys are spent in a 10-year perspective to solve this problem? Every 10 years, the boiler needs to be replaced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have any idea of the challenge facing Poland, the Polish government in the fight for clean air? In the latest report 36 of the 50 most polluted cities are in Poland. This is the civilization challenge that awaits us. Take this glove. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u378	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u379	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! This bill, the disgraceful bill on amending the Biocomponents and biofuels Act, has over 100 pages, 160, 170 with an autofix. I understand that the Minister may not have read the bill until the end, because you barely read the paper, not knowing exactly what it says, but I hope that the Minister has read the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. I'll read the thesis, paragraph 3, point 5, and I'll introduce the Minister. Point 3: Given the consumption of motor fuels in Poland in 2017, the fiscal burden on companies introducing petrol and diesel into the domestic market may increase by about PLN 2, 2.5 billion. Point 5: if the entities liable to pay the issue fee transfer its effects to buyers, the fuel price may increase by around 10 gr in 2018. Dear Minister, aren't these raises? Isn't that a fee increase? In addition to fuel prices, are there not increases in food prices, transport services? [[Voice from the room: They're coming.]] After all, this is a return to what you wanted to do in July Ub. r. Only thanks to public opinion, thanks to the Kukiz club15 managed to block this law and President Jarosław Kaczyński withdrew from it. I would therefore like to appeal to Members of the Law and Justice: do not be afraid, do something good for the public, for the citizens, for their voters. After all, in your program you had written that you would not be behind the increase in fuel prices. What do we got today? We've got a bad shift, not a good one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's too bad. I regret because Poland requires responsible, good reforms, not those that hit the pockets of ordinary Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the initial page of the bill. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is in point 9, but before that it is: the replacement fee is paid for the Low Emission Transport Fund. If we're so worried about smog, why is it called low-carbon? Why isn't it a zero-emission transport fund? At this point, we would be far more prominent in the subject, because we would rule out the operation of internal combustion engines. The idea of gas is good, but these engines lead to the atmosphere almost only 15%. less pollution than modern diesel engines. That would have to be discussed, but fine, let's have a low-carbon fund. One of the tasks of this fund will be to indicate how projects can be selected for support. I have a question about such a project, namely ElectroMobility Poland. It's about choosing four electric car designs. Quite recently, a change has been made, namely the change of the President. Just the previous board, in colloquial terms, generally played and didn't choose anything special, no solution. You had to move the president to another function - a second, I'll check it out, I already have - i.e. to the Bureau of the Polish Electricity Committee. Like a guy who can't drive a Polish electric car for a long time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to manage the electricity committee in the European forum? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u383	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened with curiosity to the speeches of the parliamentarians from the opposition. Unfortunately, there were a lot of words, little content. I think this only shows some lack of substance regarding the project discussed today, the lack of knowledge of the law. Minister! A few questions. First of all, you mentioned Orlen's profits for 2017. Is it true that in 2015 they amounted to less than PLN 3 billion, partly due to the fact that the previous coalition allowed or closed its eyes to the general trade and the marketing of non-tax fuel? That's once. Second question, Minister: Is it true that one of our companies has already issued information, the opinion that even the introduction of the Low Carbon Transport Fund and the charges we are talking about here will not affect the final price of fuel for the retail customer? Because there's been information on how to close this difference with such record, so high profits. Third question. Speaking of Mr Sitarski's speech. It's about why we're talking about the Low Carbon Transport Fund here. But aren't we also talking about support for CNG, which isn't zero-emission? That is why it is a low-carbon term, not a zero-emission term. Minister! Last question: If, in fact, according to what is included in the assessment of the effects of the regulation, the measures which are to appear in relation to the Low-carbon Transport Fund will go to Polish companies, Polish companies and Polish local governments, among others. the use of such solutions as will allow for the introduction of public low- or zero-emission transport? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But they would stay in Polish companies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u384	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I happen to be a large-scale businessman. My companies, one of them, took the first place in Poland in plant and animal production, which is amazing. I am terrified to see our production costs rise, the most important ones: fuel, bio-insurance - we have to do it ourselves. Not to mention the Water Law: 5 or 6 billion. It can't be in your head. Of course, the most important element here is smog, because, well, we're going to have beautiful investments, that we're going to be a modernized country as we live less. Recent, very detailed American studies indicate that all born after 2012, i.e. our young people, will not survive their parents. It's environmental. I live in a park, in the Natura 2000 area, in a beautiful area. If I look through the windows, this is space, it has nothing to do with clean air. It's the most important thing right now. There's not enough money for that, and it's bad for that. At the moment Poland needs a very modern device, according to the 20th century. You can't do that with that money. If you push us as hard as you push us with these taxes, the part I told you about, you won't have the money, because if the companies don't have the money, then the budget won't have it either. What I'm saying is, you can't leave these companies behind. It can't be that way: a, it's gonna be okay. There is no: somehow it will be, just you have to do business to know that out of empty and Solomon will not pour. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These solutions are harmful, the proportions are wrong, and the dollar is growing. See how the cost goes up. Our Polish currency is weakening. It's bad right now. I wish things were going well. I think you want to do better in the country, too, but you need people to run the economy. You can't do that. That's too bad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u386	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Listening to this discussion, I am very surprised. I do not blame Mr Rzepecki because he is a young Member, he may be wrong, he wants to earn... [[But so what if it's young? You're picking up...]] He wants to earn a few points for the Kukiz15 movement. On the other hand, I am a little surprised by the experienced Members of the Civic Platform and the PSL, because they are talking about racketeering, about picking up, about some disgrace there I have heard. I'm going to quote you from the summary of the state of government. The PO-PSL government raised VAT, among others. for children's clothes from 8% to 23%, several times raised the limits on local taxes, increased excise duties on fuel and tobacco products, introduced a mining tax, increased the pension premium for entrepreneurs by 1/3, covered the so-called. Trash contracts, frozen the tax-free amount, removed tax relief: construction and online, reduced the possibility of deduction of revenue for works contracts, and extended the scope of taxes on real estate and civil law activities. Members of the Civic Platform and the PSL, have you been affected by any amnesia? I am in the Seym of the third term and I remember your governments perfectly well, I remember these increases, I remember how you crushed people with a pension reform that was supposed to be the best in the world. The ministers responsible for this reform received huge prizes from Soros and other powermakers, for their pension reform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are the last to determine the fuel price increase of 10 gr per litre for fighting smog as disgraceful, picking and so on. Thank you very much. [[Did the canaries build this country?]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u388	Mr Rzepecki, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u389	Dear Marshal, Mr. PiS! Why do you discriminate against young people? I was just as elected to be an envoy as you are. Are young people dumber than you? [[Answer me.]] Answer me because you're attacking me because of my age. In this term there are many young people in the Seym. Kukiz (15 represents to a large extent young people. [[Voice from the room: To the young.]] If you don't understand, I don't know if it's appropriate to say that you're already a third term Member, so you've grown up here in these benches, and you don't understand what's going on in normal, not parliamentary, life. If someone has been a Member for more than two terms, maybe he should give up being in the Seym by now. I'd like to remind you that Kukiz15... What you're talking about is a VAT reduction on children's clothes. This is Kukiz's idea15, not the Law and Justice. That's where you got it wrong. Mr President, I have never attacked you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in no way on account of age and I would very much ask that you also do not attack young people, young parliamentarians, young citizens any more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u390	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You're gonna have to give up now.]] Mr Kasprzak, as corrected. [[Give it a rest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u391	Correct, because I see there's amnesia. Amnesia is, and it's huge. Mr President, pension changes were introduced in 1998. You have a tablet, look who's in charge then, and don't assign it here... On the other hand, there is a VAT reduction. There is an opportunity, the period ends, this year you can reduce VAT. It's a simple solution. So I advise you on pension matters. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u392	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u393	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members with a short parliamentary term may not remember the previous eight years when there were systematic increases, and these are increases that did not go... [[Voice from the room: You want to make it difficult for us this way.]] ...they weren't used for the benefit of the public. The property was sold out, as everyone knows. A good change stopped it. But right now, we're doing what you say we're doing. Courage to make decisions. And we're making a brave decision right now. We decide to increase the funding for the Low Carbon Transport Fund. Be brave. Yeah, courage, ladies and gentlemen. Support a good project. Don't be afraid, support a good project. The project is well prepared, your questions and your questioning of what the Minister said prove that you yourselves are unprepared. You're going out with a card, too, and you're presuming someone on that card is reading. This is really embarrassing. And no matter who has a parliamentary internship, whether it's a first term or a third term, it's a shame. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister about the fund because an additional fee will be charged. How will these fees be collected in detail, and how will they be transferred, so that it is transparent, so to speak, and that the objectives of the fund are clearly pursued, so that there is no concern that the funds are allocated for other purposes, as has often been the case before? Is there really a guarantee that these funds will be properly collected and made available to the fund and then properly divided according to the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u394	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Contrary to my appearance and PESEL's, I am a member of the first term of office, so that the matter is clear... [[But always young.]] Well, I think so, but it's about something else, like it's one thing or another, whatever it was, or whatever it was going for. But speaking of the statements of representatives here, members of the governing camp who accused those who did not speak from the opposition that they had not read the bill. I'm sorry, but there's no provision in this bill that would indicate the role of fuel producers in this project as well. There's no way that's gonna happen here. If you think this is a good source, you have excellent patterns. You have created a Polish national foundation from donations that companies have made. So if you think these companies can do it, then do it and it'll be over. There will be no need to reach into the pockets of Poles. You are talking about the benefits that Poles achieve here. I'm sorry, you guys have real benefits for each other. Why are you creating a new body, a new entity, if the same thing can happen to a national fund? Why are you introducing the possibility of loan waivers to be granted by the national fund? Uncontestably, someone will spend money, pay back money, in a moment's time his friend, excuse me, cancel and be okay - in the majesty of law, law. And do not talk about such things here, that these are situations, that the Pole consists of smog. The Pole at this point consists of... The content of this law is because I have read the law, but I do not want to accuse anyone that he has not read the law, that such a situation is also possible. If it's possible, it's my duty to talk and pay attention to it. I paid attention in November and today I pay attention to some of the solutions that you are introducing in this law. I don't know if you know what you're doing, but it was in November because we talked about it on the committee. Please note one question that appears. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A Biocomponent Regulation by any legal or factual act or regulation with liquid fuels or liquid biofuels by any legal or actual act resulting in natural disposal. What is the actual action? Then you couldn't answer. You're talking about permanent disposal here. What's the action? Come on, tell me what's going on, talking about the quality of the law, reading the bill, etc. And answer these questions because we're talking about a legal act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u396	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u397	Every four months, the case goes back to the trash...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u398	Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u399	...and we're still in the same place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u400	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. [[And those who built the photovoltaics... before the PiS, they're barely alive tonight, and they're gonna be dead in a minute. That's what you guys... built them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There were actually a lot of questions. The most frequently repeated question and the most frequently discussed subject is an additional burden on Poles, as mentioned in this law. I would like to stress that this is not a fee of up to 1 litre of fuel, that this issue charge is charged to fuel producers, the amendment of the law assumes the introduction of a charge of 80 PLN from 1 000. I motor gasoline and diesel introduced to the Polish market. The funds from the issue fee will constitute the revenue of the National Environment Fund - 85% and the Low-carbon Transport Fund - 15% . This is a matter of the type that the obligation to pay this emission levy will be imposed on motor fuel manufacturers, motor gasoline and diesel producers, importers of motor fuels and importers of fuels from other countries of the European Union. So here we clearly refer not to the citizen, not to those who buy and use fuel, but to those producers whose profits were now, as I have shown, significant. What is worth pointing out - this is what Mr Zubowski said - Orlen's profit in 2015 due to lower fuel sales, in connection with the Machlojki on Vata, etc. amounted to less than PLN 3 billion and for 2017. - over 7 billion. So it is clear that those who sell fuel in bulk, those who import fuel - and not those who buy fuel at the fuel station - can be charged because their profitability will decrease to a small extent. There is such expectation, and on the other hand - at least from the highest - there is a clear declaration of such an attitude. That's what I'm paying attention to. I understand political considerations and so on that you approach it this way, but these are facts and we have to stick to the facts. If we are talking about the fact that fuel is actually expensive, then the situation is that oil prices increased by 24% in 2017. This is the OPEC decision. With this decision, these mining countries have reduced their extraction by 25%, so the price has now reached $74 per barrel and is highest since 2014. That's pretty much what it looks like on this market. Our prices, this must be clearly emphasised, do not follow oil prices so strongly in relation to prices in other markets. It's on one side. Now, the other things that are being discussed here... So with us, the price for oil is rising, but much slower than in other countries at the moment. Now, these questions... Everywhere this case is repeated, i.e. increase in fuel prices, one at a time, with most Members. I've already answered that. Now yes: Mr Rzepecki once, in turn, refers to BAS. I know the BAS opinion, the BAS opinion does not take into account that there is a different approach of manufacturers, suppliers, refineries. If we refer to the approach... BAS's opinion is based on behaviour: how entrepreneurs should behave if they find such an opportunity. This is a very different matter and another is the approach of the person drawing up this opinion. This person has developed an opinion in such a formula that, as an entrepreneur, he uses the opportunity to make a proper profit, and this is quite different. However, these entrepreneurs also have social concerns, and this is the case in companies affected by the state that such things are taken into account, i.e. social considerations are also taken into account. The pressure from the Polish state is not only about maximizing profits, but also on pro-social behaviour. That is why it is during our governments, when we do not press for it to only maximize profit, and it maximize profit at the same time. As it was here: it turns out that companies lost more than 50% of their profit opportunities just because the country was turning a blind eye to VAT-based machlojki and for this reason the citizen was losing a lot of money. Today he regained this money in such a formula that every family had just received 500 PLN per child and for this reason the money came back and went where it needed to be, that is, to the citizen. And from this point of view, it is we who act pro-Citizenly, because this money, which in 2008 and 2015 was carried abroad - annually there was almost PLN 50 billion - actually they were taken away from citizens. [[The voice from the gym: Then let's transfer it to the fund...]] Today they have just returned in the form of taxes from fuel companies and have just come into the pocket of citizens. 23 billion PLN per year of the same 500+, which... Tell me and find the money that was taken abroad. Look for them if you've led them out. You made it happen, and that's the truth. And for that... But you're with them all. [[Don't insult us.]] And for this reason it can be said that this is a pro-Citizen action. This is a move towards a better life for the citizens and a return of money to the citizens. And that's the money that came back to the citizens of the oil companies. And now is the only chance that in Poland it is possible, ahead of other countries, to introduce an electric car, to build infrastructure, in terms of charging points, so that all this can be done when it is possible to obtain this money from fuel companies in such a formula, to introduce an issue fee. But once again, I would like to stress that it will be a burden on motor fuel manufacturers, importers of fuels and importers of fuels from other European Union countries. That's basically what I'm talking about. There's no way that the station owner is gonna charge himself for the fuel sold at the station. As far as these producers are concerned, due to the increase in the volume of legal fuel sales, with the same companies, there is no increase in employment nor any increase in expenditure, so their profitability is clearly increasing. And in this way, thanks to this profitability, the Polish state and citizens can benefit - by making it cleaner air, by combating emissions, as well as introducing low-carbon transport. And this is an extremely important thing that you're trying not to notice that these possibilities just exist today. I do not use them, break them up, it is a clear action against the damage of the state and to the detriment of Polish citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u402	Thank you, Minister. After this speech, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that a motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made during the discussion, we will proceed with the vote on the proposal in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law on the protection of personal data. This report is print 2528. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973 (prints Nos 2304 and 2394). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973, print No 2304. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading on 27 February 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 11 April 2018, brings forward: The High Sejm will adopt a draft law from print No 2304 without amendments. Warsaw, 11 April 2018 Signed: Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by Robert Tyszkiewicz and rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by Piotr Pyzik. About 10 months ago, the Council of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory unanimously accepted Poland's application for membership, which opened the way for us to start the ratification procedure of the agreement to establish a laboratory. The next stage of this ratification will be the adoption by Parliament, by the Government Sejm of the bill on ratification of the Agreement establishing a European Molecular Biology Laboratory. The European Molecular Biology Laboratory was established in 1974 and is one of Europe's leading research and training centres. Since 1997, he has had the right to grant his own doctoral degrees. The aim of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory is to conduct scientific research in the field of molecular biology, including what is extremely interesting, work on the new instrumentarium of this discipline. I would like to point out that obtaining membership in the laboratory will result in many positive phenomena for Poland, e.g. This will allow Polish scientists to participate in research, advanced education programmes. This will allow them to use the infrastructure and technology transfer on equal terms that scientists from other Member States currently have - which is extremely important because in this scientific space these laboratories are, if not the best in the world, one of the best in the world - which will help to raise the level of Polish science in the field of molecular biology and thus stimulate further social and economic development of Poland. By translating this into Polish, so to speak, this will not affect our citizens' civilization poverty or exclusion in this space. In turn the involvement of Polish companies in the development of laboratories, including in the field of computer science, can also bring tangible social and economic benefits. The ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory seems obvious. I would like to point out that the procedure for binding an international agreement causes that the binding of the Republic of Poland with this agreement will be effected by ratification with the prior consent expressed in the law in accordance with the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland concerning the membership of the Republic of Poland in an international organisation and with art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act of 14 April 2000 on international agreements - Dz. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, 443, late. zm. Of course. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u404	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u405	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, law and justice are in favour of this law, i.e. the Sejm's consent to the ratification by the President of the agreement establishing the European Laboratory of Molecular Biology and thus Poland's accession to this prestigious leading research organisation. This is an international scientific institution, which, as the rapporteur has already said, specializes in conducting research in the field of natural sciences and which was founded in 1973 in Geneva. For obvious reasons then Poland could not participate. Since 2014, our country has had the status of a prospective member in this organization. And here are the words of appreciation of the then Minister of Higher Education of Prof. Kolarska-Bobinska. I very rarely praise the politicians of the Civic Platform, but it is true that the words of recognition are due. And since then it began as if this time of Poland's entry into this organization. Right now, we're basically finalizing this. The purpose of this organization, this laboratory, apart from conducting research, is to train scientific personnel and transfer technology. The acquisition of Poland's membership in the European Molecular Biology Laboratory will allow Polish scientists to participate in research, education programmes and use these latest laboratories and their research technologies. This is very important. There are six important, important laboratories within this organisation in Europe at the moment. It will also be important that Poland will be among the decision-makers of this organisation on equal terms with other countries, so we will have an impact on the shape of the budget and also on the direction of research in this field in Europe. We also hope that one day in Poland such a laboratory will be created next to six already existing and that also in Poland a common doctoral program can be run. It's not a cheap party. Poland will have to pay not only the membership contributions per year, but also for the next five years to pay its share of the capital - it is almost 700,000. Euro per year - but it is an investment which will have a direct impact on the level and development of Polish science. It will give space and tools for scientific achievements to our scientists, so there is no doubt that this is an investment that is definitely worth getting involved in. Law and Justice support this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u406	Thank you very much, Member. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, please, Mr Norbert Obrick. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u407	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973. Poland, as has already been mentioned, currently has observer status on the laboratory board and a prospective member. It should be noted that it is not a single laboratory, but a network of highly specialised laboratories in six European locations: Germany, the UK, France, Italy and Spain. In the event of ratification of this agreement, Poland will become a full member and, like other countries, will have one vote on the laboratory board. During the work of the Sejm committee, we have been informed that an initial membership fee of not less than €1.5 million per year should be considered, and in the following years it may be up to 3 times the premium. In view of the potential benefits of membership, such as co-decision on the shape of the budget and research programme of the laboratory, but above all the possibility for Polish researchers to use the research infrastructure of laboratories, obtaining partners in international scientific projects, accessing technology transfer and not less important doctoral and internship programmes after a doctorate, this contribution seems adequate. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory in Geneva on 10 May 1973. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u408	Thank you very much. And Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Just don't talk long.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u410	I understand I don't have to pay attention. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u411	No, that's okay, that was friendly. No... [[Friendly, friendly.]] ...I don't see the problem. So that's very understandable. I think sometimes such relaxation in the courtroom is needed. Less aggression. And that's the direction. [[Pleasure talking to you.]] Yes, sir. On the other hand, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I wanted to present our club position on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973. My previous speakers have already outlined the purpose and history of this project. Of course we understand that the role of the state, and in this case our role as legislators, is to create a framework for the development of science, for the work of our scientists so that we can be part of this great world movement to improve all possible aspects of our lives, and science is one of them. It is therefore difficult, of course, not to support this project. Our club will vote for us to become part of this organization, which is one of the building blocks of the scientific world. Not for us anymore, not for the legislators, it will be the proper use of this new forum that we have. We hope that those who direct our teaching and above all scientists themselves will be able to make the right use of it. Of course, we're hurting the contribution we're gonna have to pay, but science, as I said, requires money. This effort, although organizational, is also an effort that we must bear. Therefore, as I said, we will support this project and, like my previous speakers, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u412	Thank you very much. I do not see Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska in the Chamber, but we have information that she is arriving, so maybe she will be able to complete the discussion of the point. So we will ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz. No, because the Member is also absent because he has made a written statement. Then let's get to the questions. In this connection, I would like to ask Members: Does anyone else want to be on the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. We therefore begin with Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform. I think one minute is enough, and if you don't, we'll wait to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u413	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for government representatives: Do we have an even more ambitious plan in view of the fact that we are likely to become a full-fledged member? It is about what has already been said by some Members on behalf of their clubs. Don't we have the ambition of becoming one of the lab's network labs? Are we going to try to be in this part of Europe because there are none of these laboratories in Central and Eastern Europe, all of which are currently located in Western Europe, such a laboratory, one of the network laboratories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u414	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u415	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a specific question in connection with the law that has just been examined: What are the specific opportunities for acquiring partners in international scientific projects and what benefits will Polish universities benefit from this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u416	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. I would like to ask you, sir, also to ask the question at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A colleague from the Civic Platform took a little of my question, because I would like to ask about the possibility of this Polish laboratory appearing online. However, I would like to be more specific. I'm talking about the oncology center project. Or, for example, isn't this the right direction to implement this laboratory in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u418	Thank you very much. I will also ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Dardziński for an answer to this question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with the question of Mr Norbert Obrick, which was linked to the question of Mr Piotr Pyzik, namely the question about the possibility of developing more ambitious plans. We are the last country from the Visegrad Group to join this network of laboratories, as has been mentioned, and of course we have ambitions to be the leader of this type of research in this area of Europe in the future. However, in order to be able to say more about specific plans, or for example. The oncology center will be involved in these projects, we must first have Unfortunately or rather fortunately the ratified agreement, because then we are able to start what is most important in such an element, i.e. besides building research teams, we will also be able to secure adequate funding in the budget. So that thanks to this smooth process on this law we hope that we will be able to join these projects quickly, all the more so because the activity of Polish researchers in these areas is significant, and also these studies are in strategic directions, which are designated both in scientific policy and in economic policy, because these studies also have an economic dimension. On the other hand, as far as the question by Anna Cicholska is concerned, what specific benefits we can count on, but also on what I said earlier, I would like to say that the specific benefits that we should have as soon as possible are that we can join the research network - that is very important - that we can build consortia with countries where, first, there are laboratories of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, namely the United Kingdom, with the French, German, Italian and Spanish, because these are six centres. However, please bear in mind that this is a network that brings together, as it has been said, several dozen countries, which naturally means that we are a stronger partner. Full membership - this is very important - gives us the opportunity to influence decisions on the strategic directions of development of the entire laboratory, so we can not only be more active members, who receive grants from the bottom and enter the consortium, but also those who decide from the top, from the decision-making groups, on which areas the projects will be planned, so that they are also attractive to our researchers, our research institutes or universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u420	Thank you very much, Minister. And Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska, on behalf of the Modern One, also made a written statement. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u421	High Izbo! On behalf of the club PSL-UED, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing a European Molecular Biology Laboratory. The purpose of the Act is to enable the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the international agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, which was drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973. The European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) is an international research organisation of European countries. The institution shall conduct basic research in molecular biology, training of scientific personnel at all levels, provide scientific services to Member States and actively engage in technology transfer. The European Molecular Biology Laboratory for the quality of its research is among the seven best scientific institutions in the world. The ratification of the international agreement will allow Poland to change its status from a prospective member to a Member State. This means that Poland will receive one vote in the Council of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL Council). We will therefore have a real impact on the institution's budget and its research programme. Polish scientists will also be able to use the state-of-the-art research infrastructure located in laboratory resources. It is also an opportunity for new channels to attract partners to international research projects. Ratification of the agreement will strengthen the chance of Polish scientists to employ at different levels in the European Molecular Biology Laboratory. The presence of Poland in the European Molecular Biology Laboratory will ensure continuous access to knowledge and experience in molecular biology and will allow technology transfer on the same principles as scientists from other Member States today. It will help to raise the level of Polish science in this field, while stimulating the socio-economic development of the country. Finally, Poland is the last of the Visegrad Group countries to join the European Molecular Biology Laboratory. High Seym! The PSL-UED Club will vote in favour of the law on ratification of the Agreement establishing a European Molecular Biology Laboratory.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the proposed law, print Nos 2304 and 2394, is to enable the President to ratify the international agreement concerning the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, which is an international research organisation of European countries specialising in research in the fields of natural sciences. It currently includes 23 Member States, three forward-looking countries, including Poland, and two non-European associated countries. EMBL is ranked at the top of the ranking of scientific institutions in Europe and is among the seven best in quality research in the world. Around 1/3 of EMBL's research groups received prestigious ERC grants, namely the European Research Council. Poland, becoming a member of EMBL, will be among the decision-makers of the organisation, and only the Member States have the right to decide on the shape of the budget and the research programme, and each country has one vote. By becoming a fully-fledged, equivalent member of EMBL, we will gain access to technology transfer rules and the possibility of creating spin-off companies, access to the organization's acquis and therefore knowledge and experience of 23 Member States. Polish scientists will gain access to excellent research infrastructure, the best bioinformatic resources in the world, specialized equipment from the top shelf, which can push our biological and genetic research forward for years. This will also help to open up new labour markets. Member States have an impact on the development of pan-European initiatives such as projects of European large research infrastructures, which potentially gives the opportunity to attract partners in international scientific projects and to provide high-level training, doctoral programmes and post-doctoral trainees, and even efforts to create a joint doctoral programme between selected universities and EMBL. The acquisition of EMBL membership will allow Polish researchers to participate in research, advanced education programmes, but will also increase the prestige of their work during recruitment, and when recruiting for EMBL, candidates from Member States have priority. All this will stimulate the social and economic development of our country. From Central European countries, the Czech Republic joined EMBL in 2015. Hungary, which declared its readiness to join at the same time as Poland has already ratified the agreement, is completing this process. Poland received a letter informing about the adoption of the Resolution of the EMBL Council on 29 July 2017, while being informed about the need to initiate the ratification procedure and the activities to be carried out in this regard. From the Visegrad Group countries Poland will be the last country joining EMBL. If we want Poland to be recognised as leading in this region, we must also ensure that this is where efforts are focused towards establishing an EMBL partner laboratory in the future. Covering contributions and participation in 2018 would be provided within the limits of the resources available in part of the budget 28: Science, which is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Science, without the need to increase it. In the following years, the costs of the contribution will be financed within the limits of the expenditure of Part 28 of the budget: Science as set out in the Budget Act for a given year without the need to raise additional resources for this purpose. It is modern in favour of the rapid ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u423	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of points 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 38. agenda: 27. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Greece on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Athens on 14 October 1992 (Prints Nos 2348 and 2395). 28. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Spain on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Madrid on 30 July 1992 (Prints Nos 2349 and 2396). 29. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996 (prints Nos 2350 and 2397). 30. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, drawn up in Warsaw on 10 November 1989, as amended and supplemented by the Protocol between the Polish Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany concerning amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Warsaw on 10 November 1989, drawn up in Berlin on 14 May 2003 (prints Nos 2352 and 2398). 31. Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 11 April 1994 (Prints No 2360 and 2399). 32. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in London on 8 December 1987 (prints Nos 2364 and 2400). 33. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Austria on the promotion and protection of investments, drawn up in Vienna on 24 November 1988 (prints Nos 2365 and 2401). 34. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Warsaw on 28 September 1992 (prints Nos 2374 and 2402). 35. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Warsaw on 21 February 1995 (prints Nos 2375 and 2403). 36. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Hungary on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Budapest on 23 September 1992 (prints Nos 2378 and 2404). 37. Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989 (prints Nos 2379 and 2405). 38. Report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 26 April 1993 (prints No 2373 and 2406). I would very much like to ask Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz to present the report of the committee in print 2406. [[Your marshal, we're a little confused about who's supposed to perform, but okay, I'm gonna perform, but I'm gonna...]] That's what the report says. [[I'm listed in the report, right?]] Yes, but for printing 2406, while Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski to present the other mentioned reports to the committee. [[Or maybe we could put it together?]] [[Well, maybe you could give it to me together.]] But you have to introduce one. You're the rapporteur, there's no way out. You're the designated rapporteur. [[There's no way out. There can't be a leopard in the Seym.]] It can't be. You must present it because you are the designated rapporteur and you are not exempted from this obligation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u424	Good. Mrs. Marshal! Honourable Members! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to present the position of the committee. All these agreements, and above all this one agreement, were signed before the entry into the European Union, and since the Union rules, the Union advises, so this agreement contains different conditions for the free movement of goods, capital and services. The committee therefore unanimously supported the position that this agreement should simply be terminated. That's all I have to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u425	Thank you very much, Mr Ostrowski, and now I invite you to the floor of the second of my fellow Members, Mr Ostrowski, who will present a joint report to the committee on the other points mentioned above. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present the report of the committee on the government draft bill on the termination of the agreement between the Polish People's Republic and... and here I will suspend and ask the Marshal if I can... This is a block of eleven laws, and since these laws, you can say, are actually the same, relate to the same cases...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u427	Mr President, the way in which you present the report is already your decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u428	Oh, I get it, okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u429	You have to address everyone, but the way you're presented is your decision. [[And the High House will judge.]] Oh, that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u430	The High House will judge, all right, but I think it's fair to ask. The need to conclude agreements with the countries of the European Union is due to the European Commission's questioning of these agreements, as well as other agreements, so-called. intra-EU BIT, concluded between Member States of the European Union, as incompatible with Union law. The European Commission has raised concerns that intra-EU BIT agreements as such, as well as their individual provisions, are compatible with and sometimes even contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services and fundamental principles of law. The European Commission also raised concerns about the settlement of investment disputes under bilateral investment agreements. The Polish party indicated here that the easiest, possibly the least traumatic form or way of resolving these agreements would be at the same time by all the Member States of the European Union to take a single decision to terminate contracts, especially since the European Union has made a proposal, a request to all the countries concerned. However, the countries of the European Union did not benefit from this privilege, there was no consensus, and therefore the Polish party had to express this agreement unilaterally. There are different periods of notice, but everything is lege artis. Most often, investments made before termination will be protected for 20 years from the expiry of the contract. I would like to emphasise and point out that the termination of contracts will have no negative political, social, legal or economic consequences. These agreements concern different countries. I will list those countries that will now have their contracts terminated. These are: the Republic of Greece - prints 2348 and 2395, then the Kingdom of Spain - prints 2349 and 2396, the Republic of Finland - prints 2350 and 2397, the Federal Republic of Germany - prints 2352 and 2398, the Republic of Bulgaria - prints 2360 and 2399, the United Kingdom of Great Britain - prints 2364 and 2400, sorry, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland - those printed, the Republic of Austria - prints 2365 and 2401, the Republic of Lithuania - prints 2374 and 2402, the Republic of Croatia - prints 2375 and 2403, the Republic of Hungary - prints 2378 and 2404, the Kingdom of Sweden - prints 2379 and 2405. I would like to say that no amendments were tabled at the committee meeting, and everything was voted without reservation, without protest. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I ask the High Sejm to decide on the drafts of the printing legislation that I have just read. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u431	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club on government billings regarding termination of contracts with Greece, Spain, Finland, Germany, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Austria, Lithuania, Croatia, Hungary, Sweden and Latvia. Ladies and gentlemen! It may shock us that we have so many contracts, but there has been such a situation that all these contracts were concluded before Poland joined the Union, and now EU law is more beneficial to us, especially for entrepreneurs or all those who want to benefit from these agreements. All processes that would continue, possibly, would be much cheaper or would not have to be paid at all. This concerns the free movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. At least that's the assumption. What it looks like in reality, I'm not going to discuss it now. It all looks nice on paper, but you always have to fight for our entrepreneurs, which happens when it comes to, for example. It's about road transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mrs. Marshal! Law and Justice does not make any comments on these statements and does not make any amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u433	Thank you very much, sir. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will ask Mr Mark Krzykala. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u434	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the club's position on the termination of mutual support and investment protection agreements with the countries listed in the prints in question, specifically as has already been said: Greece, Spain, Finland, Germany, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Austria, Lithuania, Croatia, Hungary and Sweden. According to the information provided at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee by the Ministry's representative, these agreements were concluded in the 1990s, at a time when Poland was not yet a member of the European Union. These agreements were intended to attract investors, and this had to be ensured full protection and the possibility of redress before the international arbitration tribunal, because at this time our right still left much to be desired. The European Commission raises its objections by indicating that these agreements, or only their individual parts, are in particular in line with or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services and the principles of Union law, such as the principle of primacy, unity, effectiveness and, above all, the certainty of the law of the European Union. The Commission also has reservations about the settlement of investment disputes in bilateral investment agreements, which, according to the European Commission, seems to be contrary to the exclusive competence of the courts of the European Union. This was confirmed by the Court of Justice in its judgment of 6 March. On the other hand, the Commission called on all EU countries to deal with these issues without delay. The termination of these agreements will lead to compliance with European Union law with our EU economic cooperation partners. Investors should be reassured and reminded that after the termination of contracts, both investors and their investments will still be protected for the next 10 to 20 years depending on the type of contract. This will also save costs lost in arbitration proceedings. At the same time, Poland will continue to consult countries with which we have concluded similar agreements to bring about the termination of agreements by agreement of the parties, including clauses for the extended validity of the agreement in the interests of the rule of law, which we feel a deficit. In fact, it is important that, in accordance with the rule of law, we correct our law in our country. I hope that this will be a step in the right direction, that we will now also return to the three divisions of power. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The club took note of the Ministry's explanations and will vote in favour of the termination of these agreements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u435	Mr President, please don't come down from the podium because you signed up for the question. You've still got two minutes. I'll extend your time if the situation requires it. Right now, you have the opportunity to ask us a question so that we don't complicate things any more. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u436	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I'd like to ask you about the deal with the United Kingdom. This was also mentioned at the committee meeting on Brexit. As the UK will leave the European Union in March 2019, investors are concerned about their investments. Although there are transitional periods of 10 and 20 years depending on this agreement, I have a question for the Ministry. Does the Ministry plan and prepare such a special agreement with Great Britain? If so, when should it be expected? When will she see the light of day? I assume that it will comply with existing EU law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u437	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Grzegorz Długi to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u438	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present our position, which concerns all the marshals mentioned by you, as well as my previous speakers, on all the BIT agreements that our country has decided to terminate. Of course, in principle, we understand the reasons for this termination. I will not repeat the argument that was already mentioned here by my previous speakers to save time. I would just like to add one thing that is important, because we will all agree with this, and Mr Krzakła has just said that we are hoping that further work will be carried out in such a way that these agreements will be resolved through an agreement between the parties so that the mechanism that we are launching, the mechanism for the termination of these agreements, does not have to act precisely in the direction of termination, but only in order to be resolved by means of an agreement between the parties. However, I would like our diplomacy first of all to make efforts to establish these issues at European level. But I do expect... One of the tasks of the European Union is the unification of law, equal treatment of all members of the Union. At this point in time, I have the right to expect that in a situation where the European Union authorities themselves believe that these agreements are incompatible or are likely to be unlawful, which, of course, we should agree with, I would count on the EU bodies, as they can do in our country - let us call it - to urge us to do certain things, they will also be able to persuade us, our partners collectively, to be dissolved on the basis of an agreement between the parties or even an appropriate act of another multilateral kind, which would allow us to regulate this situation. Because right now, this situation is legally disturbing. This duality, de facto the Troisty of the legal system in which entrepreneurs operate, does not give us a sense of confidence in trading. This case should be cleared up pretty quickly. I am not in favour of what my previous speaker was talking about, and speaking of the UK, we should conclude a special agreement, because British investments in Poland are multiple. -, multiple - many times bigger than ours in Britain. So I am not interested that these investments should be treated in a special way, in a privileged way towards others. On the other hand, the action of the sunset clauses, which are in all these agreements, is ensured for many years. This will mean that we will have this dualism for many years, at least legal dualism, which is not beneficial to investors from our partners' countries or our investors who invest in other EU countries. The difference is only in comparison with Lithuania, where there is probably the advantage of Polish investments compared to Lithuanians. I suspect it's similar with Latvia. There maybe we have no interest in making these clauses stop working faster. In conclusion, we hope that by voting in favour of these laws, we are somehow contributing to ordering the legal order, but we also hope that our foreign services will work intensively to ensure that these agreements are dissolved either on the basis of an agreement between the parties or on the basis of a multilateral agreement, and that the clauses of the extended action are as short as possible in order to simplify the legal system in which entrepreneurs of all these countries must act in the shortest possible time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u439	Thank you very much, sir. I will ask Mr Krzysztof Truskolasski to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u440	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present the position of the club as part of the point related to the termination of intra-EU BIT contracts. The bilateral agreements concluded between Poland and Greece, Spain, Finland, Germany, Bulgaria, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, Austria, Lithuania, Croatia, Hungary, Sweden and Latvia are being challenged by the European Commission because the agreements are incompatible with European Union law. As is contested, all other investment support and mutual protection agreements concluded between the Member States of the European Union are in force. The Court of Justice of the European Union also expressed its opinion on this issue, which, in response to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, stated that the investment promotion and protection agreements were incompatible with Union law. These agreements were intended to ensure full protection of Poland and the other party and the possibility of redress against an international investment tribunal in the event of violation of the rights of any of the parties to the agreement. The protection of investment through international arbitration was intended to be a kind of fuse for both foreign investors in Poland and Polish entrepreneurs abroad. The European Commission has serious concerns that agreements to promote and protect each other's investments, including the abovementioned. agreements and their individual provisions overlap or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principles of the free movement of capital, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services and the fundamental principles of European Union law. It should be recalled that these agreements were concluded before Poland joined the European Union. The European Commission also has reservations about the settlement of investment disputes regulated by bilateral investment agreements, including the abovementioned. agreements which, according to the European Commission, appear to be contrary to the exclusive competence of the courts of the European Union. The termination of the agreement will lead to compliance with European Union law between Poland and the countries mentioned earlier in the field of economic cooperation. At Community level, the termination of agreements should not have political consequences, should not have negative social and economic consequences. Modern will support these billings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u441	Thank you very much. As Mr Marek Krzkoła from the Civic Platform has already asked his question, I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology of Mr Tadeusz Kościński for an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u442	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The agreement with Great Britain must be terminated because, according to the indication of the European Union, it is illegal. There is no possibility that Poland will sign a new agreement. If it were Brexit, because it is not yet known whether it will be 100%, it will not be possible for Poland to sign a BIT agreement with Great Britain, because it is within the competence of the European Union. We can only contribute to the negotiations within the European Union. So I think that our investors in the UK will continue to be protected by English law, as well as by the Treaty on Britain's exit from the Union, including an investment protection agreement. Thank you. [[You're an optimist about brexitu.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u443	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I would like to inform you that our wheel supports further investigation of the proposed bill. Today's laws were constructed in a different political and economic reality. It was a time when we wanted to attract foreign investors and ensure their legal security. Today we are a law-abiding country, a member of the European Union, which duplicates the provisions of the current laws. We don't need legal duality. We have signed treaties that ensure equal treatment by courts for all investors in the rule of law state of Poland. The bill has no economic or social consequences. Today's legal procedure, related to the existing contract, is also too expensive, so we as a circle of Free and Solidarni will be in favour of proceeding over these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u445	High Seym! On behalf of the PSL - ED Club, I have the honour to present a position vis-à-vis 12 draft laws, of which 10 agrees that the Polish President will terminate the mutual support and protection agreements between the Government of the Republic of Poland or the Polish People's Republic and the governments of the following countries: the Republic of Greece, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Bulgaria, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Sweden. The eleventh draft law concerns the approval of the Sejm by the President of the Republic of Poland to terminate the agreement on mutual support and investment protection between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, as amended and supplemented by a subsequent Protocol between the Polish Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on the same matter. The 12th bill concerns ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on mutual support and investment protection. What is the link between all these draft laws? They all concern agreements with the Member States of the European Union and were concluded before Poland entered the EU. Their aim was to attract foreign investors to Poland and guarantee them the security of their investments through the possibility of resolving disputes outside the Polish legal system. After Poland's accession to the EU and the adoption by our country of the acquis communautaire, the need for a specific legal guarantee of the security of investments located in Poland has lost its justification. Moreover, the European Commission considers that these agreements may be incompatible with EU law and therefore calls on all the governments of the EU Member States that have concluded such agreements to resolve them. One of the main arguments of the European Commission is that the agreements in question - because of excessive protectionism and the possibility of redress against an international investment tribunal - may infringe the Treaty rules on the movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. The European Commission also considers that these agreements, called intra-EU BITs, are also contrary to the fundamental principles of EU law, such as the principle of primacy, unity, efficiency and certainty of EU law, and the settlement of disputes through international investment arbitrage appears to be contrary to the exclusive competence of EU courts. It is difficult to disagree with this argument from the European Commission. It is also shared by the Polish Government, which further argues that the termination of the above agreements will not have negative social consequences, on the contrary, it should be expected that it will be welcomed by public criticism in Poland of intra-EU BIT agreements and international investment arbitration. The current government of the Republic of Poland does not even see the need to maintain an agreement on mutual support and investment protection with the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which is, as we know, in the process of leaving the EU. In its explanatory memorandum to the bill on termination of the agreement of 8 December 1987, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki states that the termination of the Agreement should not affect the economic relations between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom, and announces that Poland will also seek to ensure that possible agreements concluded by the EU and EU Member States in connection with the Brexit provide a high level of protection for EU investors. In written justifications up to 12 projects submitted, the government informs the High Sejm that it has conducted consultations with national economic authorities. However, despite some reservations on their part regarding the elimination of the possibility of resolving disputes through international investment arbitration, the government ensures that Polish investors very rarely benefit from this form of protection provided for by intra-EU BIT agreements (only three such cases have been reported by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology). The government of Prime Minister Morawiecki argues that Poland bears high costs of arbitration proceedings and calculates that since 2006 it was about PLN 53 million. Taking all these arguments into account, the PSL Club - ED will vote in favour of the 12 draft laws that are the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u446	We will join the third reading of the bill's drafts in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on tachographs (print No 2458). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Marek Chodkiewicz to present the justification for the bill. But unfortunately, I've read it, and the minister isn't here yet. [[Well, I guess we'll have to take a break.]] So I'm running a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 50 hrs 19 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 39 of the agenda. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. In that case, we are listening to the speech of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, who today will present the justification for the bill at this point in the meeting of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ran, so I apologize for the short breath, but I hope I didn't disappoint the High House's work too much. The basic objective of the bill is to align Polish law with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on tachographs used in road transport and amending the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of certain social provisions relating to road transport. The proposed regulation improves road safety by limiting the manipulation of data recorded by the tachograph concerning the working time of the driver, introduces new powers for the control services and prohibits the production, distribution, advertising and sale of equipment for the manipulation of these data, and clarifies the requirements for the servicing of tachographs. The proposed changes should make it safer and enforcement of road transport rules should be more effective. The draft law on tachographs reduces the risk of misuse of tachographs by defining new operating conditions for the installation, repair and verification of tachographs. Currently, two generations of tachographs - analogue and digital - are covered by two separate legal acts: the Law on Measurements and the Law on the System of Digital tachographs. The new draft harmonises and covers all requirements for both generations of tachographs in a single legal act. The proposed regulation harmonises and clarifies how to proceed when programme or hardware modifications are made in the tachograph's operating system. In addition, it is assumed that a single permit may be issued for service activities of all types of tachographs. The ability of carriers and operators whose activities may affect the safety of the tachograph system has been excluded. It was assumed that in the event of a reasonable suspicion of connection of an unauthorised tachograph device, an inspection officer, e.g. The Road Transport Inspection will be able to direct the vehicle to an approved workshop to check the possible connection of such a device. The draft law also regulates issues related to the issue of digital tachograph cards. There are currently four types of cards on the market: drivers, companies, workshops and controls. The draft law introduces the possibility to issue temporary and non-renewable driver cards in justified cases for a period not exceeding 185 days. This is a great facilitation for drivers employed by Polish carriers who do not have a permanent residence in the European Union. The draft law also sets out penalties for infringements of EU law and regulation. It was also proposed that the President of the Main Office of Measures should extend the authorisation to carry out activities in the field of analogue tachographs to entities which do not meet the new requirements of hiring a workshop technique. An extension of the authorisation will be possible for a period not exceeding 2 years from the date of entry into force of the Act. The aim is for these actors to have sufficient time to employ technicians who will be properly trained and pass the test. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u448	Thank you very much, Minister, for setting out the justification for the bill. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, then it is Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u449	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are launching a debate at the first reading of the draft law on tachographs. It is therefore worth defining what a tachograph is. The name of this device comes from Greek: tachos, which means speed, and grapho, which means: write. The tachograph is a recording device in the time function run by the vehicle, as well as its instantaneous speed. The Tachograph also records the activity of the driver, i.e. periods of his driving work, waiting time for work, i.e. on-call time, as well as rest. Modern devices can also save other parameters, e.g. engine rotation. Tachographs can be analog and digital. As the Minister mentioned, in the Polish legal system at the moment these provisions are contained in two laws. One of them regulates the issue of analogue tachographs, the Law on measurement, and the other - the issue of digital tachographs. This bill provides that we will have one regulation for tachographs. Tachographs as on-board equipment were introduced for road safety reasons. Most countries - including all countries of the European Union - have introduced limited working time standards for drivers. Why? Therefore, for drivers to sit behind the wheel of the vehicle rested so that it is a guarantee that their psychophysical condition is a guarantee of road safety. But since there are standards that limit the working time of drivers, these standards need to be enforced. And that's what tachographs do. However, it turns out that these devices can be introduced into the state of counterfeiting of data. The regulation we are talking about is to guarantee a state in which the manipulation of tachographs will become impossible. We will set up a system for the control of tachographs, installation control, repair control, so that security is guaranteed throughout the European Union in the common market. Another aspect of the use of tachographs can also be pointed out, as these standards restricting working time are also social in nature and tachographs also allow enforcement of legislation in this area. In the European Union, tachographs were introduced by legal standards in December 1985 and in the summer of the following year this was already implemented. These provisions, which are included in the draft in print No 2458, are standards adapting Polish law to the European Union regulation. This implementation deserves support. The details will be discussed on [[♪ The bell ♪]] a committee meeting. It is worth noting that, although these interferences in tachographs are recorded by the Road Transport Inspection, they are not so many, because according to the justification that has been provided - if your marshal permits, I will quote these data - last year the Road Transport Inspection detected about 270 cases of connection of an unauthorised tachograph device, which caused data distortion, and about 380 cases of arbitrary interference with tachograph work. It is worth adding that in Poland we have registered 34 633 companies authorised for international transport in the countries of the European Union, and these companies totaled over 218,5 thousand. vehicles. That means the amount of manipulation is insignificant. But we need to bring this size to zero for security reasons. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u450	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the draft law on tachographs submitted to the government, which concerns increasing the efficiency and efficiency of the tachograph system and ensuring better enforcement of social legislation in road transport, as well as the implementation of European Union law, I declare that Kukiz15 is looking forward to working on this project in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The new draft law on tachographs harmonised and covered all requirements concerning two generations of tachographs. This is very important: two generations of tachographs. That's what we're dealing with, that's what we're dealing with, and that's what we just have to deal with. Such a solution simply facilitates the full consistency of the provisions of the Act and affects its readability and compliance with EU rules. The draft law on tachographs regulates issues that remain within the competence of two bodies: the President of the Main Office of Measures - this is the first body - and the Minister of Infrastructure in the field of inter alia. issue cards for digital tachographs and inspections of road carriers and drivers for the correct use of the tachograph. We are implementing European law in this area. Of course, we do not have much to say here, but we must do so in order for European law to work. There are some interesting entries in this bill that are worth quoting, e.g. in Chapter 2 of Article. The principles and modalities for issuing functional certificates and type-approval certificates for tachographs or components thereof shall be defined. Issues related to applications for documents, necessary annexes and situations related to the software or hardware modifications of the tachograph or component of the tachograph or modifications related to the type of material have been identified in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is difficult. It must be said that from a technical point of view, the law is difficult, therefore, among others. a special expert team has been set up. I think the Minister will confirm that. This expert team worked on the bill and prepared solutions, the records that are included in this law. I would like to draw attention to one thing that I think so far, as I have listened to, no one has spoken, and in my opinion it is important. Namely in Chapter 4 of Article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 39 requirements for workshop technicians who are entitled to install, check, We know there are different kinds of frauds. They're related to the counters, the recuperation of the counters, and so on. Similar situations took place with tachographs. So if we sort this out in chapter 4, we're probably gonna make it a really good law and there's no fraud involved. These workshop technicians will simply be very careful not to abuse European law and Polish law. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am in favour of directing the project to committee and invite you to examine this law in detail by all your Members as well as by the Minister. I would be grateful if there were members of this team at this committee meeting, experts who prepared... [[That will be up to the President.]] Yeah, except, of course, the experts are not appointed by the committee and not by the president... [[Invitations must be sent.]] ...only by the minister, and it would be very appropriate if... [[Indulge me.]] We'll ask for it. Then that's my request. I think I represent all the sentences here. Thank you very much and I am in favour of passing the bill to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u454	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoñ and Mr Kazimierz Kotowski made their statements in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. One and a half minutes. [[How about two? I'm one.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I support the proposal that the members of the team take part in this committee, but I have a request to your president to invite the social side, and it is very numerously represented, because a lot of the legislation that includes the draft law introduces fees for various activities: from legalisation through permission to carry out specific activities, whether it's just installation or repair, whether it's installation and repair, and for checking tachographs, and it's important that these entrepreneurs are able to comment whether it's an increase or a maintenance of existing rates. I form such a question to the Minister at the moment, and also - this is the second part of the question - because the law contains criminal provisions relating to the introduction of fines, I ask: Is the level of these penalties maintained on the existing one [[♪ The bell ♪]] level, is it raised or possibly reduced? Because there are some rigor-swallowing swallows in the bill, e.g. The certificate can be replaced by an entrepreneur's statement, which welcomes you with kindness. The law has another advantage that it actually introduces conditions of fair competition, because if it cannot be manipulated, it will not be possible to cheat on tachographs, then all entrepreneurs will have equal opportunities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u456	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I wanted to say a few words about this band. This team was not very specialized, because they were specialists from our department and specialists from the Main Office of Measures. [[Well, that's great.]] It's the band. These are, of course, specialists from the Main Office of Measurements, because they are experts, in colloquially speaking, from these tachographs. Therefore, I would ask that we possibly invite representatives of the Main Office of Measures, which, I understand, is now under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Investment and Development, if I recall correctly. On the other hand, Mr President, it seems to me that the mitigation of certain provisions is kind of included in my ministry. I'm trying to calm down, not... Yes, and the Minister, as you've noticed. Also with regard to the level of penalties, I think that if there are no significant signals that this is nagminne, and the Member has said, it is rather a small number, we will try to keep it at the current level so that it is not too... [[Destructive.]] It's... it's... it's... it's... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u458	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u459	The proposed regulation leads to the implementation of EU Regulation 165/2014 on new construction solutions for tachographs and reduces the risk of misuse. In addition, the regulation also prohibits advertising and sales of tachograph manipulation equipment. Currently, issues related to the operation of workshops servicing two generations of tachographs are governed by separate laws: the Law on Measurements and the Law on the System of Digital tachographs. The introduction of a new law will put all the necessary solutions in order in one piece of legislation. Requirements for workshops carrying out installations, repair and inspection of tachographs and certification of technicians have been defined. It should be pointed out that there are important issues concerning the clarification of how to proceed when programme or hardware modifications are introduced in the tachograph operating system. It was proposed that, in the event of a reasonable suspicion of connection of an unauthorised tachograph device, the appropriate services should be able to direct the vehicle to an approved workshop in order to verify the possible connection of such equipment to it. The draft law sets out penalties for infringement of EU law and regulation. There is a ban on the production, distribution, advertising or sale of equipment or objects designed to manipulate tachographs. A fine, limitation or imprisonment of up to 2 years will be punishable for violating this prohibition. PSL - UED is in favour of further work on the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on tachographs included in print No 2458. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft tachograph bill submitted by the Government to the High House is intended, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, to align the legal status of the Republic of Poland with Regulation (EU) No 165/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on tachographs used in road transport and repealing Council Regulation EEC No 3821/85 on recording equipment used in road transport and amending Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of certain social provisions relating to road transport. According to the government, the proposed regulation increases the efficiency and efficiency of the tachograph system and ensures better enforcement of social legislation in road transport, and Regulation No 165/2014 is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. High Izbo! Currently, there are two types of tachographs on the market. These are older analogue tachographs and newer digital tachographs. At the same time, the issues related to these two different technologies are governed by two different laws: the first, of 11 May 2001, the Law on Measurements, and the second, of 29 July 2005 on the system of digital tachographs. The draft law submitted by the Government to the High House harmonises this subject area and contains in one legal act all the requirements for both generations of tachographs. However, it should be borne in mind that the existing obligation to install only digital tachographs and the resulting expected reduction in the number of vehicles with analogue tachographs installed will gradually reduce the number of analogue tachographs for digital tachographs. It should also be noted that the broadly understood high quality of legislation adopted by Parliament is crucial for the quality of economic trade. I therefore believe that a single law covering all issues, ensuring full consistency of the rules, will affect their readability and compliance with EU rules. This will certainly be good news for the transport industry, especially as the government has declared minimum transposition, and hopefully this is the case. Until now, the adjustment was usually based on the fact that our legislation included those European regulations which were mandatory but also optional. The only way to benefit from this was through bureaucratic offices. However, this is one of the reasons for the absurd overregulation of our economy, with which we fight every day in Modern times. With regard to the detailed provisions, an in-depth discussion should certainly take place during the committee meeting and perhaps the subcommittee, so that the Sejm has the opportunity to hear the position of the social side, as I encourage the PiS club. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of my position on behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to ask for this proposal to be sent to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u461	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on tachographs, contained in print No. 2458, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 5 June 2018. We proceed with the examination of items 40 and 41 of the agenda: 40. First reading of the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in the provision of State Treasury revenue in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties (Print No 2475). 41. First reading of the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the investigation and to establish any negligence in the activities of public authorities and institutions undertaken to prevent under-impacts on the State budget from the tax on goods and services and excise duties since 2007 (Print No 2474). I would very much like to ask Mr Marcin Horala to present the justification for the draft resolution contained in print 2475.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The famous saying is that there are only two things in life: death and taxes. I suppose we can add that as long as there is humanity, people have tried, as far as they can, to avoid both. So someone could say that the phenomenon of non-payment of taxes, avoidance of taxes is a natural phenomenon that always occurs. Why, then, is there a need for a special committee of inquiry to examine a particular case in this regard? The point is that this case is very special. 2007. Poland in the collection of VAT is in the absolute front of Europe. VAT gap, which is the difference between what is theoretically expected to affect the tax budget, and the actual impact is about 8.8%. , i.e. approximately 9192% The revenue from this tax shall be included in the budget. On a European scale, only the Netherlands has better cheatability. It's been eight years. Year 2015. The same gap is 26% according to the European Commission's reports. Since 2007, a process of rapid fragmentation of the system, a sharp rise in the VAT gap, an increase of several times, by several hundred percent compared to the previous size begins. It is stable around 2010 at a very high level and remains at this level until 2015 and 2016. Again, referring to the European Commission's reports, this gap is around 24% of the PricewaterhouseCoopers Poland report confirms these calculations, where it is calculated as a percentage of GDP and we are talking about a gap increase of 0.6%. national product in 2007 to 2.8% the domestic product, or almost 3% of the gross domestic product, dies from the budget in 2015. This is an amazing anomaly. It's a jump. How did this happen - this is the question that stands before the committee of inquiry - that until 2007 VAT could be effectively collected in Poland, since 2007 it stopped giving up, then it could not be done very much, and since 2016 what are we watching? Yeah, it's coming up again, you can do it again. The VAT gap is rapidly decreasing. According to estimates of the National Bank of Poland, we have come closer to the EU average and there is a clear, very fast trend of closing this gap, eliminating this pathology. Non-payment of taxes, the tax gap, of course, has several reasons. They can be divided into white, grey and black zones. The white zone is natural causes, e.g. some company went bankrupt before paying the tax due. Of course, it will always be in the economy. The grey zone is far worse, but it is not yet the worst, as it will appear in the moment, i.e. simply the situation in which companies, businesses conduct business, sell goods, sell services, pay a certain tax on it, and as a result of such or other activities partially or entirely avoid it, do not pay it or pay less than it should. Finally, the black zone, i.e. the activities of fraudsters, the activities of criminal groups, which do not carry out any business at all, but falsify documents, create some appearances of this activity, to receive a tax refund from the budget, which was never paid to the budget, in other words, to rob the state budget, to steal our money from all of us. The jumps of this VAT gap, while at the same time stating that a certain level is natural, will always, never be absolutely impossible to eliminate to zero, indicate that this grey zone and, above all, the black zone have increased several times. This phenomenon lasted 8 years - first dynamic growth and then stability at a very high level. The committee of inquiry should deal with matters that are important to you. Is this case important? I will refer again to the reports of the European Commission. The aggregated VAT gap for the years 2007 to 2015 is PLN 262 billion, not PLN millions - billions. As I say, it is never possible to close it to zero, but if it were to maintain the level of VAT collection at the level of 2007 - if this was possible in 2007, it is clear that this was possible - then over the years we would have had 200 billion more in the budget for the effect on VAT itself, and yet there are still related phenomena, there are fuel excise duties, some of these fleeing money was VAT on liquid fuels, where excise duty was, of course, also escaping. Moreover, 200 billion more in the budget, regardless of how it is used, would always bring additional benefits, even if the State were to be less indebted, there are already additional benefits from lower public debt costs. You can give it to people in retirement, I don't know, you could give 500 zlotys a raise to every pensioner. Of course, there would also be a tax on this, these pensioners would buy something in shops, additional VAT would be charged on additional goods. In one way or another it would be two hundred and dozen billion more in the legal economy - in orders, in workplaces, in investments of Polish companies. So if we're talking about the total loss of this omission in tax collection, I think that the sum of 300 billion is the absolute minimum, and that was probably much more. So each of us, every Pole, from a baby to a 100-year-old, was stolen about 8,000. Evil, all of us. I don't think there's anything more important. I don't think there's much more to it than that. How many problems we are facing right now, we could solve if the money was in the budget. For example, a 6% demand could be met from day to day a national product for health care. There'd be enough money for that. Either you could give 500 PLN a raise to any pensioner, or the 500+ program could be a 1000+ program, or maybe even 1500+. But that money's gone, and we've all been stolen. The current opposition and the then rulers, those who were in charge of public finances at the time, put forward a number of arguments in the public debate, on which to lean, because they would point out that we are not dealing with any irregularities which would require the establishment of a committee of inquiry, that we have dealt with certain objective factors. Well, let's think about it. One such argument is that it is a kind of pan-European God's indulgence, that problems with carousel crimes, VAT fraud are problems that occur throughout Europe, so they had to occur in Poland, and it is difficult to attract to some particular responsibility or to assign special responsibility to Polish governments from that period. This is very little true because, in fact, there have been such problems throughout Europe, only that they were almost better dealt with throughout Europe, and usually much better. If we mention that we were in second place in 2007 in terms of VAT collection, we were already 22nd in Europe in 2015, i.e. only five European countries were doing worse. Moreover, they are countries with a traditionally low tax collection rate, such as: Italy or Romania. I will not go into the legal and political and cultural background of such a phenomenon, but there was no such country outside Malta, where there is a very specific micro-economy, where, let's say, one good transaction is already a large percentage, there was no one in which there would be such leaps in this charity, in which it was possible first, then it suddenly could not be done again and then it could be done again. So in these other countries, perhaps there were more lasting, objective factors that did not have such a direct basis in political decisions and regulatory activities. Poland was the only such country. In 2015, it was possible in Sweden, Croatia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, the UK to collect VAT better than in Poland. So the argument that this is a pan-European act of God, on which Poland could not do anything, falls because most European countries were doing better. Moreover, this has led to the phenomenon that Poland was slowly becoming a green island for tax frauds, that in those other jurisdictions where they were more effectively fought, where they were more applied to it, their activities were more at risk, was more difficult, so they moved to Poland and instead of stealing from the Danish, German or Dutch taxpayers, we invited them to Poland in fact to steal from the Polish taxpayer. Another argument is that we had a pan-European crisis at the time, an economic crisis and it was not necessary to exaggerate the pursuit of fraud so as not to violate economic freedom in order to allow the economy to grow. This is the remnant of such a view, which cannot be described as a lumpenliberalism, which bloomed in the early 1990s, which said that with the free market economy, with economic freedom must go hand in hand with the high scale of theft, fraud, that if we want to fight theft, then we will violate economic freedom. Of course, nothing more wrong. True economic freedom, freedom, freedom of business for honest entrepreneurs requires that the State actively pursues and eliminates unfair competition from the market or even competition in the form of criminal groups. What is the support of entrepreneurship to allow a criminal group to produce false invoices and extort tax? What kind of economic freedom is that? What kind of economy is this? That's not enough, it's bad for the economy, because with this crime group, ordinary entrepreneurs in competition are in a losing position. An ordinary entrepreneur can, for example, become a businessman. at some stage of the carousel gets involved, it can become one of the elements of this next issue of invoices and his business will eventually go bankrupt and end his business. It is the security of economic turnover, the fact that criminal groups are being eliminated from it, that promotes the development of the economy, and this is evident after 2016, when the VAT gap has been significantly lowered, a number of legal solutions have been introduced for this purpose, and at the same time we have very high economic growth, we have the development of the economy. In no way did this harm the development of the economy. Finally, the further arguments we hear are that governments have really fought this gap, tried to do something, introduced solutions or prepared solutions that are being introduced by the current government. That, too, is little true. Introduced e.g. reverse VAT mechanism. It was found that e.g. on steel products are made carousels, there are frauds, so the reversed VAT has been introduced on steel products. That's right, it's an effective tool to end fraud on steel products. Of course, at that time fraud moved, for example. electronics. This in turn worked on the reversed VAT for electronics. Of course, the reverse charge tool can be a tool that effectively hinders carousel crime, but it must be part of a wide program, a broad toolbox to fight these crimes, not a single chase of a rabbit, which at that time simply escapes into another commodity group. A number of preparations, which we are talking about, began reporting in 2015, e.g. in June 2015 As the governments showed after 2016 in 2 years it was possible to prepare and implement several packages of laws, several packages of solutions, actions. Meanwhile, in the years 2007 and 2015 something was barely started to be prepared. If it was prepared, if there was knowledge of what to do, then all the more so the committee of inquiry must display this problem and answer the question: If it was known, then why wasn't it done? Why this was not done faster, more effectively, because in the dynamics of the VAT gap there is no way to notice any effectiveness in this action. Rather, it should be said that these were some appearances of action. It was creating the impression that these deceptions would end, not the real fight against them. The most important question facing the committee of inquiry, the biggest mystery, is the question: Why, where and who has decided not to fight tax fraud for years? Where was this decision made? This cannot be rationally explained even from a political point of view, because I am no longer talking about the good of the state, which is obvious in this case. Each government prefers to have more money in the budget. Thanks to this, it can run various types of social programs, popular investments, lower taxes. Every government would like more money in the budget. It is unpopular, politically difficult to collect these resources, for example. We need to cut some expenses, we need to raise taxes. And there was a chance on the table that politically beneficial, politically unburdened, popular in itself, because people support the pursuit of frauds, download tens of billions into the budget, and somewhere it was decided not to. Of course, the question of where, how, how and who is responsible for this must be answered by the committee of inquiry. She'll explain. But this is a huge question: Why did this happen? Whose will was even more important than the interests of the political ruling formation? Why did the ruling formation choose to harm itself? This great tank of public finances is being tightened by other criminal groups, not by taps, but by large pipes, from which they beat public funds, and the government, instead of these pipes, cut off these taps, shut down decisions to pour even more, even more out of the taxpayer's pocket into this system of public finances, to increase the main rate of VAT to increase the retirement age. He makes a number of unpopular decisions to draw more money into the budget, while it was possible to cut the flow of these funds into tens of billions of zlotys at your fingertips. This is the biggest mystery this committee has to solve. It must, of course, identify the responsible. I repeat that each one of us, each of us from a barely born donkey to a 100-year-old woman, was robbed at about 8,000 at that time. zł. Something like that shouldn't go through on the principle of, that's what happened. We must explain this and the responsible must bear the responsibility, at least politically, and if we can gather evidence, also criminally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u463	Thank you very much, sir. Since Mr Mark Jakubiak is not here yet, I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 29 hours 20 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 40 and 41 of the agenda. And I ask Mr Mark Jakubiak to present the justification for the draft resolution contained in print 2474.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for your understanding. Accelerations also have their flaws. On the other hand, I am returning to the situation concerning the resolution which I am recommending here to the High House, tabled by Kukiz on 15 September 2017, a resolution on the appointment of an extraordinary committee to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions undertaken to prevent under-impacts on the state budget from the tax on goods and services and excise duties. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this is a secret that VAT fraud is extremely serious at the moment. Recent information indicates that even now. Prime Minister Morawiecki admitted that 25 billion VAT had been extorted. It's too easy. This applies to the whole of Europe. On the other hand, as far as Poland is concerned, it is particularly the situation from the years 2007 to 2015 and even 2017 that is curiosable, because these frauds are virtually highest in Europe, which means that we have such suspicions that the Polish state is not very careful here, and certainly ineffective, did not show diligence towards VAT fraud, excise fraud. I will say that the idea of setting up this committee of inquiry appeared after hearing the statement of the president of the association It makes a very deep sense, a sense that should find an explanation on the committee of inquiry. As it is possible that, despite the services which are called to prosecute the smuggling of excise goods, i.e. goods in which excise duties and VAT are included, they could simply flow to Poland. I will say that PKN Orlen's turnover did not accidentally increase by 20% during the first year. For me, as an entrepreneur, this is a curiasal situation, the more that it cannot be explained otherwise, as only the fact that it has been stopped has ceased to take place in a large part of the smuggling of fuel into Poland. Hence the sales increase of Orlen. I want to tell you - of course, all the data is in the explanatory memorandum, and you certainly have it - in conclusion, so as not to prolong that such a committee should not be a political committee. I would absolutely like to assure you that, as a representative of Kukiz,15, I will not try to use this committee for politics. I want to take a substantive approach to the topic and expertly to help the Polish state in this area, to demonstrate, for example, what. complexity of the rules, this regulatory matrix may affect the possibility of extortion of any ointment of taxes in this cloudy water. I think that this expert committee should also show how legislation should go in order to completely eliminate these holes. I think this is a reason to be pleased that today the European Commission is considering eliminating VAT. They consider the possibility of introducing 8% tax on income and turnover in exchange for VAT. I'd like them to take an example of what Kukiz15 has been presenting since 2.5 years, but they probably don't take that into account. The only solution in this situation is the obligation, the obligation to pay tax, i.e. income tax, for each invoice activity. And here we want to see this indolence. Today's arrests can also affect this committee. Perhaps they're saying something very important. And I would like to say that this committee, which will rise again, is going to help the Polish state settle it, but also to fix the system or to indicate the possibilities of repairing this system so that we do not have to talk about the fact that some taxes are being paid and others, in the eyes of the State Treasury and the employees responsible for it, are simply stealing. There's no permission to do that. This is probably one of the most interesting committees of this term. So I recommend that you vote in favour of this resolution. I must refer to this too, because six months we wasted and suddenly there is a very similar resolution on the part of Law and Justice, but I don't want to say whose better, because they're actually the same. On the other hand, I would very much ask that this committee finally be set up, because we do not have time, the term of office ends, and as we know, committees do not pass from term to term, so we must end the work of this committee during the 8th term of office, and it will probably proceed during the holiday. So I encourage the High House to vote in favour of this resolution. Let's call this committee. Let's get this straight. It's about hundreds of billions of zlotys. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u465	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning two draft resolutions aimed at setting up a committee of inquiry. First of all, I wanted to refer to what you said, because you said that this would be a committee that would not be a political committee, but that the speech of the Member was already political, because as far as the draft resolution you presented is concerned, there were actually more Members of Law and Justice signed under this draft resolution than Kukiz, so this project is our joint project, but these projects are two. There are two very similar projects. The purpose of both is to set up a committee of inquiry, which is to examine, in a figurative way, why, in recent years, there has been no money in our country's budget. Why - this needs to be explained. I'm gonna say you don't have to be a financier to understand that the last, maybe not the last, for eight years of the Civic Platform and PSL government, something was wrong. It's all about the facts. I will return here to a short period of rule of law and justice, 2005 and 2007. I wanted to remind you that the Law and Justice ruled briefly at that time, but it led to a budget deficit falling to PLN 16 billion. It did not fall because there were additional taxes, that Law and Justice were additionally forcing something, but quite the opposite. During this period, among others. the wage burden fell by reducing the pension contribution, i.e. the ZUS contribution. During this period, the first benet was adopted and awarded. During this period, tax deductions were introduced on children, the first time family was paid attention, and it is very important that children be born to help parents in this upbringing. During this period, one-off pension allowances were paid twice for those pensioners who had low benefits. During this period, among others, they were abolished. tax for the nearest family on inheritances and donations. During this period a lot has been done, but this time is short, so let me say this: the deficit has fallen, the future rule of the Civic Platform, which started with the fact that wages have been frozen in the budget, the ZUS contributions have been raised, and even the funeral benefits have been reduced, the tax has been raised. And what's so tragic is that during this period the national estate was sold out or distributed, money was taken from the Demographic Reserve Fund. And what did it turn out to be? That the budget deficit at the end of the Civic Platform's government from the 16 billion that was earlier increased to 45 billion. Now that the Law and Justice have returned to power after these eight bad years, we have again started social programs. I don't even want to mention how many billions of dollars have gone into this, that there's money left to pay 500 plus. We restored the retirement age, so we restored the dignity of Poles. The wage increases have started in the budget, the lowest pension benefits have been significantly increased. He's sharing so easily today and he's telling us what else we should do for the disabled, but this first aid has begun. We've been putting in free meds. And what does it turn out to be? That of the 46 billion deficits left by the Civic Platform, even with the huge debt that has increased over the years, the budget deficit is again decreasing. So what was wrong with the eight years of the rule of the Civic Platform, which robbed Poles on the one hand, and on the other hand the government budget grew deficit, i.e. debt for future generations? And what was wrong with the political responsibility for this situation should be explained by this committee. Therefore, on behalf of my Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] I propose that both draft resolutions be submitted for further work. Thank you very much. [[No applause?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u467	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is significant that there are so many smart people in the PiS today who know exactly how to raise the government's budget income at a time of economic slowdown. [[Applause]] It's just hard to decide if they're geniuses or januas, because theories have to do with each other that they don't work backwards. This committee of inquiry in general. According to Prime Minister Morawiecki, the cumulative VAT gap from 2008 to 2015 amounted to PLN 260 billion, according to Mr Horała - already PLN 340 billion, according to Marshal Karczewski - PLN 500 billion, Minister Ziobro sees with the eyes of imagination 600 billion PLN, but the most farthest went Minister Jak. I quote: thanks to the fact that we are chasing the VAT mafia, hundreds of billions of dollars per year are entering the budget. Give me a minister like that. For once, the budget bill in hand... [[And a glass of cold water.]] ...let him take a look and at least learn a little. Why isn't there a single version in the PiS? even as far as the VAT gap is concerned? It's very simple. Because we're dealing with another PiS lie. After the Smolensk lie, after Poland we have a VAT lie in ruins. PiS is lying about the size of the gap, lying about his spectacular successes in sealing, lying when he's betting... [[So what was she like?]] Mr President, not nervously. PiS lies when it puts a sign of equality between VAT gap and VAT carousels and VAT mafias, and finally lies, saying that the government of the Civic Platform did not introduce solutions or instruments sealing the system. And what's the truth about the VAT gap? According to the European Commission, the gap in Poland during the years of the Civic Platform's rule amounted to an average of PLN 33 billion per year. And how much was it between 2016 and 2017? We do not yet have reports from the European Commission, but preliminary estimates say that this gap, accumulated in 2 years, amounted to about 70 billion PLN. So where are your spectacular successes? What's the occasion for your fireworks? You may believe what Prime Minister Morawiecki said, that with VAT sealing there are 30 billion more. Well, let me remind you that he also said that you raised your social security pension by 50% and that you would build a luxtorpede. It is really necessary to distinguish between the increase in VAT income and the elimination of the gap, because these are completely different things. The most optimistic estimates say that the effect of sealing is 6, maximum 8 billion zlotys, and it must be remembered here that 3/4 of this amount is our merit, and 1/4 is your success, but you must admit that quite moderate. [[Applause]] This is where we get to the bottom of this. What are you afraid of? Why do you not want to analyse 2016 and 2017 and support the Kukiz proposal15? You really do not want to find the answer to the question, why, despite several years of efforts by the previous government and two years of efforts by the current government, is the gap still so large? You really put the party business ahead of the state's interests and your greater enemy than tax frauds is the opposition? If you want a committee of inquiry and you want to make a stick out of it for the Civil Platform, go ahead, we have nothing to hide. That's a good thing, 'cause if this committee comes up, the public will find out about a few interesting things. I hope I can tell you one story. The most important act to date, which limits VAT fraud, is a single control file. That's what all the experts say. This is the only system solution that worked in 2016 and 2017. Who put this solution in place? [[Platform.]] The Civic Platform. When? 9 July 2015. Remember this. Were the PiS Members in favour of this solution? [[No.]] No. They're holding back. They didn't want to introduce sealing mechanisms. Mr Jak also abstained, and the brave Mr Abramovich of the economic patriots' team was against the uniform control file. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When we introduced the reverse VAT mechanism four years earlier, the PiS Members abstained and this is the truth about the attitude of the Civic Platform and the PiS towards the sealing of the tax system. And you want to question us from the VAT gap? You're welcome. Good luck. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u469	Thank you very much, Member. Here you are, Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, Minister, this is how I imagine this committee will work on the problem and try to explain where the holes are and why the billions were coming out of the Polish country. We're not gonna drag out now. Whoever's to blame will be ours if they're to blame. But I don't assume in advance that they're guilty. Perhaps this system in its own inertia assumes... It's just indelicate. On the other hand, when I hear that one of the companies assumes its business in an office building, issues left invoices, after 4 days gets 500 million VAT returns, and then the money is directed to the Caribbean and the company dies, I apologize, but this committee must indicate how such criminals can walk freely and call themselves Poles to this day. [[Okay. We'll even tell you how.]] This is how I imagine this committee, that we will deal with these matters, which will lead to their explanation, and this is also about the responsibility of people who were simply involved in theft on behalf of the Polish state. That's all. But I don't see politics in it, I just see pragmatism. I'm interested in my country and my country's money. As a tax payer, which I pay tens of millions a year, just my hair becomes an oak, because my effort to pay this tax is wasted by ordinary stealing, by people who make this money by Poles just steal in front of various kinds of political notes. And this committee should clearly oppose and point out those moments in which such pseudo-officials conduct their own businesses under the banners of various types of ministries or the organisation of the Treasury. That's what this committee's all about. Kukiz-15 is absolutely in favour of us bringing into our economic system, into our economic law simplicity and tax ease, so that it is not possible to peddle and puzzle. We know that the tax advisors' lobby is against it, and we are not surprised because it is their job, but when we finally do an economic reform, a real economic reform, we will not have to set up a committee, we will not have to ask where the money is, because this money will necessarily have to enter the Treasury without any deduction. And then, hopefully, we'll get along with all this. And the Polish state is very rich. If it weren't for the fact that this money comes out of the state budget... I think we'd be in a completely different place if it wasn't for that unfortunate VAT. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u471	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u472	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! What comes out here is that the work in this committee is supposed to be substantive, not politically, but everyone is focused solely on the political aspects of the functioning of this committee, and I have not heard here about the substantive aspects. I'm the one who can remind you what a tax on goods and services and an excise duty are. These are indirect taxes. Taxes that are harmonised within the European Union, and thus as a Polish parliament, we are not sovereign here in the establishment of regulations. We must adapt to the standards in force in the European Union and, where there are derogations, negotiate these derogations. That's the truth about indirect taxes. And it is indeed what Mr Horal said here. Because this is not a violation, but the whole European Union is struggling with the VAT gap and it is very difficult to find suitable solutions here that will fight this undoubtedly negative phenomenon in our country. On the other hand, if we are talking here about both the tax on goods and services and excise duties, this is undoubtedly the most important source of revenue for the State Treasury. This is paid primarily by consumers, i.e. mainly by Poles and Poles. It is we, consumers, who are in fact burdened with this tax, which is why it is very important, on behalf of citizens, to clarify all aspects of the functioning of the VAT gap. If they are guilty, they must be strongly held accountable. The modern one shares the view that a number of measures should be taken to prevent and counteract the VAT gap. But the VAT gap itself, please also remember, is not only tax fraud, it is also a very important element of self-calculating tax and the difficulties in self-calculating tax, which occur among Polish entrepreneurs due to the complexity of this tax. This is undoubtedly a very important element. Of course, it can be assumed that the biggest problem associated with this gap is various types of fraud, including tax carousels, empty invoices. This must undoubtedly be fought, but a large part of this gap is certainly due to an excessive complexity of the tax on goods and services. Simplifying procedures, simplifying this tax would certainly lead to a narrowing of the gap. And maybe it's actually the only prescription, the only way to counteract that luce. What would I like to draw attention to? The current law on the tax on goods and services entered into force on 1 May 2004, i.e. with the entry of Poland into the European Union. Thus, the first year, i.e. 2005, was already the year in which it was possible to analyse what was happening with this tax in 2004. The following years - 2005, 2006, 2007 - should also be covered by the committee of inquiry, as these years have an impact on 2008, 2009, 2010. Because with regard to this tax, it does not happen that from month to month you can make any reduction. This is a rolling process. Also, if we are talking about the fact that this committee is to have a real impact on the explanation of what has led to the creation of the VAT gap, as well as in addressing its negative aspects, the Commission's action should certainly also be covered in the years 2016 and 2017. Really, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the PiS, there is no need to be afraid. Let us explain all this because it is in the interests of Poland, in the interests of Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u473	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me, on behalf of my club, to present my position on these two draft resolutions, briefly, in simplification, on the setting up of a VAT investigation committee. Both draft resolutions really concern an important issue - an examination, an analysis of issues that show certain shortcomings. The budgetary implications are indeed incorrect, they are understated. The examination of irregularities in VAT receipts does not raise any objections in our assessment. However, it is incomprehensible that the Law and Justice define the period for which this analysis is to be carried out: for the period from 2007 to 2015. Such a choice of period clearly indicates that applicants are not concerned with examining problems and with practicing perfidious policies. The draft of the members of the Kukiz Club15 extends the period until 2017 and in our opinion deserves support. According to the evaluation of the implementation of the budget for the previous year, the Supreme Audit Chamber notes the increase in VAT by PLN 30 billion compared to 2016, but I would like to point out that the NIK highlights the prosperity of the world economy with the increase in VAT, while at the same time pointing out that there have been shifts in VAT refunds and therefore some irregularities have already been noted. Therefore, if the Committee of Investigation is to carry out an analysis, let it indeed carry out this assessment also during the rule of law and justice. The problem of the VAT gap was highlighted by the European Commission, pointing out irregularities already in 2014. At that time, this gap in the European Union was EUR 160 billion. There was 9 billion euros in Poland at the time. In Romania, this percentage was very high, in Sweden low, 1,2, in absolute terms, in Italy almost 37 billion euro, in Luxembourg only 147 million. Let me remind you: in Poland, EUR 9 billion, i.e. at European level. It wasn't some kind of marginal event, but it was actually pretty high. As a result, it was not until April 2016 that the European Commission adopted an action plan on VAT towards a single VAT area. Such long-term strategic solutions were adopted to restore the principle of VAT collection in relation mainly to trade transactions. According to the European Commission, cross-border fraud is about 50 billion a year, so it is 1/3 of the VAT gap that exists. The first directives come from 2016, 2017, after a few months we implemented them into our law. What other actions have been taken, I will no longer develop them here because they were. Let me just stress that each time our solutions had to be agreed with the European Commission, so this also took some time. I see no obstacle, however, that we should not have to analyse the implementation of VAT payments for the years 2007 and 2017. The shortening of time, as PiS proposes, is only unfair to the governments of PO-PSL and has nothing to do with the desire to clarify this important issue for your finances. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, I'm comparing the uprising of the Committee of Investigation here to the Amber Gold case and at the same time to the SKOK case. I remember the situation when the Amber Gold scandal broke out - the Financial Supervision Commission had supervision there, the unsecured money was about 800 million PLN, and at the same time there was no KNF in SKOKs and 16 billion PLN of deposits were not secured in any way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But there was a commission for the Amber Gold case, not the SCUs. Hence simply if there is such political action of the ruling party that only where our business is, we protect and cover our own, then such a committee makes no sense. But in general we are in favour of the Commission of Investigation carrying out this analysis for the benefit of Poles for the years 2007 and 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u475	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the so-called. The Commission of Investigation for VAT fraud. After hearing Mr Horała's speech, there is actually not much to add, because he perfectly presented the conditions, the facts and the need to justify the establishment of a Committee of Investigation for VAT fraud. However, I must say that when I followed Mrs Isabella Leszczyna's speech from the Civic Platform on the TV screen, I thought it was absolutely necessary to speak. I must speak because there is no way to avoid political responsibility. High Seym! Well, extortion of VAT, the scale of extortion of this tax in the years 2007 to 2015 can be compared to the situation of some of the biggest looting in our country's history, that is only comparable to the robbery carried out by the invaders during the wars. And this issue must be made absolutely clear, not only in terms of economic dependence, of the global crisis, of all the things that my esteemed speakers have said, but above all in terms of responsibility for creating the whole climate, the good atmosphere, so that these frauds can take place. Who's responsible? Who's responsible for this? After all, the Polish state is not, as the Minister of the Interior said, Mr Sienkiewicz, the theoretical state. This is a country for which even at that time someone was responsible, for which someone was responsible, in terms of, for example, the financial economy, the collection of taxes. And here there was a collusion, such a silent collusion of consent, in which, I have the impression, participated - of course, the committee of inquiry should deal with this and examine whether this was the case - representatives of the state authorities, but also various advisers, experts in the field. tax optimisation, the possibility of using various grips that allowed the whole mechanism to function. Let us just remind you that the scale of these frauds is quite gigantic. In 2007, when the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party included governments, this tax gap amounted to just over PLN 7 billion. When he completed his office in 2015, it was already over PLN 50 billion, and counting in a cumulative manner, in the years 2008 to 2015 - well over PLN 250 billion. I will not bid here, as Mrs Isabella Leszczyn did, saying that one said so much, the other so much. [[It's the country you're bidding on.]] I think the committee of inquiry should be able to determine exactly what's going on. But you have to say, ladies and gentlemen, and pay attention to a few facts. Namely, you said, Madame, that... It's hard to talk about political responsibility here, but I wanted to ask... I wanted to ask why Mr Donald Tusk, after the outbreak of the Amber Gold scandal in 2012, signed an order eliminating the Department of Economic Interest Protection of the state, prosecuting the so-called mafia. White collars. Today, such a structure exists, functions, but under a slightly changed name. That's when she was changed. My time is running out, but I also wanted to point out that the permission of the courts, among others. Supreme Court ruling [[♪ The bell ♪]] of 12 August 2018, which referred to the fact that these VAT fraud offences were classified as criminal offences which had a lower criminal record, and the statute of limitations was shorter. I think it is necessary to explain, because the whole climate of that time caused, among others. What one customs officer said: We weren't supposed to control the imported fuel tanks. It says a lot. I think that today everyone, the entire High Chamber, with no abstentions and no opponents, should support the appointment of a committee of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u477	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. And please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u478	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that, by dedicating this to Mr Horale, I will say that the government of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2014 practically on the first signals that we have grown in the VAT gap - the effect of really correcting the European Commission report - has prepared the programme and the government adopted it in April 2014. It is a program of sealing the tax system and OSR for this program, 43 actions, including among others. split payment accepted by us. The OSR estimated revenue from this seal in 2017 at PLN 17.5 billion. What you are talking about, what Mrs Leszczyna also said about sealing, looks rather modest in this context. This division of merit, it seems, should go rather in our direction. However, a key dispute at the moment is not about whether or not to set up a committee, but about the scope of its work. I'm talking about the time range. For example, speaking the language that Mr. Horal operated on, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am very curious who decided where it was decided not to implement the PiS flagship project on the invoice register. We all know that this is the best solution when it comes to sealing the tax system, especially when it comes to VAT. That would be the best solution. And Minister Szalamach and Prime Minister Morawiecki have repeatedly spoken about this at the beginning of the term of office, and in programme terms you have repeatedly said that you will enter this register. Three years have passed since the decision to start work on it in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u479	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you why you didn't want to set up a committee of inquiry that would examine all VAT fraud and tax collections in your government's time in 2005 and 2007. The VAT carousels started their activities in 2006, when you were in charge, and the Prime Minister was Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Your goal is not to investigate the case, but to create a performance of lies against the Civic Platform. You're boasting more VAT revenue. Economists doubt the reality of higher downloadability, because the real reason is economic growth caused by economic prosperity throughout Europe. You have succeeded in having a hoss in the European and global economy during your reigns. The work of this appointed committee of inquiry will take place during the electoral campaign to local government and parliament, so the only real reason for this committee is to try to barbecue the politicians of the Civic Platform before the elections. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u481	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u482	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I think it will be very interesting to hear when, before the committee of inquiry, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, former Deputy Minister of Finance. [[I'm looking forward to it, too.]] I was curious to hear what you said today. There were so many manipulations here. On the one hand, you claim that it is not true that the VAT gap in the years of your governments amounted to over 260 billion, and in a moment you say that only 33 billion a year. Then make a simple bill: 33 times 8 and there's over 260 billion. [[I didn't say it wasn't true. Read the transcript. I didn't say it wasn't true.]] You said it wasn't true. [[You should be ashamed of yourself.]] I have a request, as a question, to Mr Horala, because he will have more time for you... [[Your Marshal, I must correct.]] ...all manipulations responded and explained what was the dynamics of the rise of the VAT gap in the years of the Civic Platform's governments and how the VAT gap is now rapidly decreasing. You were obviously manipulated. I also wanted to address Mr Cichoń...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u483	I don't think you can direct questions to Mr Cichoń. You can ask questions to applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u484	Let me just comment on what Mr. Silence said about split payment. I was the committee's rapporteur on the Split Payment Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I remember here, in the courtroom, the State of the Civic Platform criticized this idea. How is it that you suggested him first and then criticized him? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u485	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u486	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Uściński did not understand my statement, nor does he know that we voted for split payment as all the sealing ideas that you are implementing thanks to our 43 recommendations left in the MF. About my speech. Well, Mr Uściński, I have not said at all what the size of the gap is. I only said that according to Prime Minister Morawiecki it was 260, according to Marshal Karczewski it is 500, according to Mr Horala it is 340, according to Minister Ziobra it is 600 billion, and according to Minister Jakie it was hundreds of billions a year, because Minister Jak does not know that all VAT revenue in 2017 is about 150 billion, so I do not know how hundreds of billions could flow out. I just said, Mr President, that you do not know what you are talking about, and I assure you that Mr Horala, on the issue of the tax on goods and services, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He can't explain anything to anyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u487	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Janowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for the applicant. Why did the committee, as the scope under examination, take the years 2007 to 2015, without the years 2016 to 2017? Second question. Is it true that a single control file was introduced by the PO-PSL government in July 2015? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u489	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u490	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Requestor! I would like to ask how much the sensitivity of the PiS Members to public money is triggered by? The system of cooperative savings and credit banks, whose founder's father, but also one of the main beneficiaries, is Senator Bierecki, a system which has been funding PiS-owska propaganda for years, has exposed the state budget, and more broadly: the public finance sector, to the loss of PLN 6 billion, and God knows how many billions of losses will still put us at risk, because unfortunately the SKOK-i fall like flies after the rain. Mr Horała, why didn't the PiS vote on the setting up of an inquiry committee on the SKOK system on the application made by the Civic Platform at all? Why did he vote against setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate the irregularities surrounding the VAC? I'm asking you to answer me, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u491	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u492	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for applicants. Well, we can clearly say that the revenue to the budget was lower in 2007 and 2015. Interestingly, in 2016 and 2017 it is clear that these influences have increased proportionally and this is the case in these years, in so-called years. Prosperity, an increase of over 20%. The question is: How, and at all, can the increase in VAT revenue directly depend on the economic situation of the country be explained? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u493	Thank you very much, sir. And I would ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Marcin Horala to refer to the questions. I wanted you to address the questions, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u494	Yes, sir, of course. Thank you very much, Marshal. Maybe the first question about SKOKs, which does not concern the matter of the resolution, but since the question was allowed, I would also like an answer to be allowed. The Member has already left, but I will answer. [[I'll pass it on.]] Thank you, sir. You will. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where you got the amount of 6 billion losses for public finances. Usually, I guess, as you say, you mean the amount of guarantees granted by the Bank Guarantee Fund, which is an institution that is kept by the institution's contributions... [[But he's in the public finance sector.]] The public finance sector is functioning. SKOK has the funds from the contributions of banks and financial institutions. So he's an institution... [[In the financial sector.]] Thus, it is a quasi-insurance institution that operates on a principle such as insurers who collect premiums, e.g. from all drivers, and pay off to those who have had an accident. It also collects contributions from all banks and financial institutions and uses them to save those who are in trouble. [[Voice in the hall: Someone pays for all this.]] As a result, the funding entity of BGK's activities... [[It's us.]] ...there are banks and financial institutions. Moreover, the guarantees granted by the BFG do not necessarily mean that these funds will be paid. Sometimes financial institutions succeed, for example. in the corrective procedure, to correct their situation through these guarantees. [[In a few cases, it was...]] But, of course, sometimes they have to be paid out in the end. The same, on the same basis, could be said for example. about the PZU incident, because every year PZU in the case of these unfortunate various events from which people are insured, pays compensation, I don't know exactly how many, but certainly millions, if not billions. To answer more questions... [[How's that for Amber Gold?]] Amber Gold is... I'm sorry, sir, but the questions have already been answered. I'm not able to answer any questions from the courtroom during my speech. [[That's not the absolute answer to the question, please don't...]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm still answering some more questions... [[Voice from the room: This is no answer to questions.]] ...for more questions. This was the point, the question, actually a few questions, why the Commission's examination is not recorded in the years 2016 and 2017. I'll try to answer them all collectively. Well, ladies and gentlemen, generally speaking, the committee of inquiry is from investigating irregularities, from investigating what is wrong, not from bragging about what is right. [[Oh, God, I can't...]] If we look at the dynamics of the VAT gap, we will see that it has either grown or remained on average with slight fluctuations at a very high level, until 2017, and since 2016, after these years, it has been rapidly decreasing. [[In 2016, it increased.]] Of course, such a provision does not mean that in committee there will be an absolute ban on saying anything that affects the years until 2007 or after 2016. In particular, years after 2016 must be to a certain extent the subject of the committee's interest to see what action was then taken to close the gap and to move it to earlier years - why they were not then taken and who decided to do so. In the questions there was even a contradiction among those asking about the temporal scope of the problem, because on the one hand, Mrs Chmiel of the Platform says that already in 2006 the first carousels appeared, and on the other hand other members of the Platform say that actually 2014 was a moment when it was possible to take some news for the first time that there was a problem with the VAT gap that it was expanding and that it could start slowly, as it turned out, some actions to close it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention, for example. for the years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. Since 1 January 2011, the main VAT rate has been increased. At the same time we have the famous so-called. The green island. We have all macroeconomic indicators, all important - economic growth, consumption growth... [[Lowered stakes. Read it.]] ...on the plus side, small but on the plus side. At the same time, VAT revenues are decreasing. This is also the answer to the question of translating this economic situation into question, that the decline in VAT revenues would result from economic slowdown and that the current increase in VAT revenues is due to economic acceleration. [[Structure of GDP.]] At the time, we had some miserable economic growth and a drop in VAT revenues... [[But the investments were.]] ...now we have a good economic growth, actually, I would even say very good, because coming up to 5%, but VAT revenues are growing by 23%. We can't explain this to you. [[The structure of VAT.]] The link translates only a small fraction, part of the increase in VAT revenue... [[We'll explain it to you on the committee.]] ...and the rest must be due to the sealing of the tax system. And any analysis, both national and foreign, shows that it is significant and progressive. The dynamics have been reversed. Luka's rapidly decreasing, she's closing in, which is why of course The committee will look at this mainly in order to show, in an example, how it can be done, that it was not just God's act, that it could be done and why it had not been done before. From this perspective, brag about the fact that.. The state actually introduced a single control file in July 2015, i.e., I do not know, 3 months before the surrender of power after 8 years of its government, in a situation where the gap has been up since 2007 and has started to grow dynamically, and since 2010 it has already been in a form similar to, I would say, a record... Take action e.g. In 2015, it really is not a title for pride, rather here is another question which the committee of inquiry must ask itself, why only then, why it was so slow, why it was introduced in a situation when it was already known that power would be devoted and actually quite indifferent if this action would take place then, because it was known that another government would come in a moment, which would take seriously the pursuit of frauds and serious tax collection. And finally, the last thing about a little statistical trick that's been applied here. That is to say, the average VAT gap, which was to be around 32, 33 billion in 2007 and now around 35. This really is at the level of statistics from the first grade of primary school, I think. Well, if it's the 2007-2015 period... We have a start from a very low level of the gap and it starts to grow dynamically. In the first year it is still very low, in the second it is already clearly higher, but still quite low, and so it grows, grows, and then stabilizes at a high level. If we pull the arithmetic mean out of these years, those are also those years when this system was just ruined, intensely, but it was just ruined... [[You just said it went off in 2008.]] ...so it wasn't completely broken yet. I mean, it grew dynamically, but it grew repeatedly, several times. [[Very logical.]] Therefore, of course, these years, when it was getting worse, but still quite well, are part of this average. On the other hand, for the years 2016-2017, when it was launched from a very high ceiling... After all, the first half of 2016 is necessarily... We act quickly and effectively in this matter, but not with finger-shooting, but a few months had to be done to implement certain actions, to make changes, including personal changes, in tax services, to start making the first laws, the first regulations. [[But nothing's working yet.]] So probably in the first half of 2016 it could still grow, from the second half it probably started to decrease and in 2017 it already flew down. But since it started from a high level, very high, this record level, the arithmetic mean will be relatively high for these 2 years. But what matters is the dynamics, the fact that it is shown that it is dynamically, rapidly decreasing, while in the years around 2007 and 2010 it grew dynamically and stabilized in 2010 and 2015 at a close record level. I hope that I have exhausted the subject and answered all the questions asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[...is in the sector, sir, read it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u495	Thank you very much. I'm closing... Excuse me, please speak... Mr Mark Jakubiak is not here. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. Article 136b (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be governed by: - a draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the existence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in the provision of State Treasury revenue in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties contained in print No 2475, - a draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the proceedings and to establish any negligence in the activities of public authorities and bodies undertaken to prevent under-impacts on the State budget from the tax on goods and services and excise duties since 2007, contained in print No 2474, to the Legislative Commission for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 52 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the protection of personal data (prints Nos 2410 and 2528). I would very much like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft Personal Data Protection Act, print No 2410. The Sejm at its 62nd meeting on 8 May 2018 pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this proposal at its meeting on 8 May 2018, request the High Sejm to adopt the draft law submitted. Allow me, as rapporteur, to draw attention to a number of points. In the course of the process on this draft law, substantive, legislative and clarification amendments were introduced. It is about topics that have been the main element of our discussion in the joint committees. I would like to draw attention to Chapter 3, i.e. the conditions and modalities for accreditation, in which the provisions on the activities of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data in relation to the accreditation criteria of applicants for the certification of personal data are further clarified. In particular, it is an article. 12, Art. 13 and Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The issue of accreditation is so important that we will have to deal with a number of actors who will try to obtain appropriate accreditations that will give rise to issues relating to the protection of personal data. The second point that has been discussed more widely in committee is the question of changing the name of the President of the Office. Under the new law, we will have a new name for the person responsible for the protection of personal data. It will be the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data. Until now, he has been the Chief Data Protection Officer. Here, too, GIODO considered that this change was not justified, but the committee took the view that at the moment the role of this office would be slightly different from that of the old Personal Data Protection Act, and therefore it is appropriate to change the name of the President of the Office. Another issue that we discussed more extensively at the joint committee meeting is the review of the provisions on personal data protection, and I am talking here specifically about the article. 84. Discussions and doubts raised the question of the extent of the rights to be exercised by persons who will monitor compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data. These principles are quite detailed in the article, but Members have had questions on this issue, and on the legal and legislative side all these procedures have been clarified in Article. 84. Finally, the committee decided on the question of liability for breach of personal data protection law - Article. 95 and Article 95 96. I would like to point out that the draft assumes that the court will suspend proceedings before the administrative court in the event that the President of the Office has initiated proceedings for breach of the provisions on personal data protection. Here was a dispute about whether such a decision was correct, but ultimately in the article. 95 and Article 95 96 the committee decided that the court would, as I said, suspend the proceedings in the event that such proceedings were initiated by the President of the Office. Another thing I want to draw attention to is the level of penalties. In this draft law, which we are proposing to you today, the question of penalties or legal sanctions for non-compliance with personal data protection rules is important because the government is in such a position that these penalties will in many cases concern public institutions in which funds come from public danins, so it is difficult to maximise them. Therefore, there will be financial sector units that can be punished for up to 100,000. zł, but they will also be. cultural units - only within 10,000. zł. This is an important issue from the point of view of the functioning of these rules. The last point I want to draw attention to is a whole series of public space problems, monitoring this space. Well, here, as I have already learned today, during the process many institutions have already appeared to the secretariat of the committee with questions, interested in what is the procedure, what is the progress on the draft law, asking also about the issues of monitoring. This is an important issue because many areas in our public space are being monitored today. I would like to point out that, in the part concerning this draft law, we have amended the provisions of the article. 118. It concerns the amendment of the Labour Code, specifies in detail the matter of monitoring at the workplace. It's important. The owners of the workplace will be able to install with appropriate agreement with the employees, with the trade unions monitoring at their premises. The second group, which deals with this issue, which concerns monitoring, is Article. 114, Art. 122 and Article 122 thereof. 123. These articles lay down rules for the use of monitoring by local government units and their subordinate units - these are also important issues - municipalities' offices and their subordinate units, offices of old offices and their subordinate units, as well as voivodship self-government and their subordinate units. Finally, Art. 124 is the processing of data by the Institute of National Remembrance. Here, too, it is important that this issue is regulated by the amending rules. In particular, cases of identification of murdered persons, the publication of the names of those persons, so that there is no doubt on the basis of the Personal Data Protection Act. This article was also adopted in the draft law. Finally, Art. 154 concerns a large area, i.e. monitoring rules for educational institutions. This is because parents, parents' advice, will certainly be interested in this subject. The law in this article sets out in detail the principles and procedures in which this monitoring is to function in educational establishments. Thank you, Mrs Marshal, thank you to all Members, the Minister for the work on this project, and I hope that we will be able to successfully vote on this bill in the course of further work, so that, as far as possible, the draft law can enter into force on 25 May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u497	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the draft Personal Data Protection Act ensuring the effective application of the General Data Protection Regulation, so-called. GDPR, a law which is the first national act for more than 20 years in a comprehensive way that regulates the area of privacy protection in Poland. In 1997, the last such act was adopted. However, so far, I think we all agree on that, since that date a lot has changed: paper phone books have disappeared, information with names has disappeared, e.g. In the chests of houses, the list of tenants. We can also say that from that date we have all observed how information about our privacy is shared in a virtual world in a completely different form. However, we must not forget that, with the great benefit of the constant development of new technologies, the risks associated with unwanted use of our data are increasing. Yesterday, actually several hours ago, there was such information that probably the largest web portal used 3.5 billion photos that were posted on another web portal - all of this can be read in the media - and did not ask permission to use these photos at all. Today, this information is quite widely available in the media. Personal data must therefore be effectively protected in response to the changing reality, the changing technologies and the environment in which society operates. As an expression of the conscious importance of the proposed regulations, they were subject within the Council of Ministers and the work undertaken by the Ministry of Digitisation to two-year consultations, first informal and subsequently already undertaken in the framework of the legislative process. However, we must not forget that, alongside the extremely sensitive nature of personal data, it is a specific subject of economic turnover in the 21st century. That is why we have tried to ensure that the provisions of the proposed regulation implement the principle of a golden measure. We worked together in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Laws. The overwhelming majority of the paragraphs were adopted by the committee on a broad consensus between the various clubs. In a pro-Citizen context, it is worth noting that, first of all, regulations aim to ensure more effective enforcement of violations of our privacy. In order to improve the procedures so far, the project provides for a short, 30-day deadline for the audit authority to carry out investigations in the event of breaches of our data protection. Improving proceedings is also the right provided for in the draft to lodge a complaint from the decision of the authority to the court after the decision at first instance has been taken by the authority. The project also grants social organisations the possibility to act with the consent of the data subject on his or her behalf and on behalf of the data subject. If, in the course of the proceedings, it is established that the processing of personal data is in breach of the rules, the President of the Office may, in order to prevent such effects, oblige the person charged with the infringement to restrict the processing of the data. In this way, citizens will be able to count on safeguarding their rights even before the authority makes a decision, which must always continue. In some cases, especially serious data leaks, any minute of unlawful access to a person's data can, after all, result in unfettered losses on the part of the victim. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! As I have already mentioned, data is also traded in business. In this case, this law regulates the scope in question so that data without the consent of their owners do not constitute a specific currency. During the committee's work, the Law and Justice Club submitted a number of amendments, which were mostly adopted unanimously. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also now have with me a package of amendments which are practically legislativeally clarifying as regards this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u499	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u500	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! This is one of the most important laws that are adopted in this term of office. I am all the more surprised that, since two years have been underway on such an important bill for many actors, Parliament is only in two days, and Parliament has only enough time to deal with this law, and it is very complicated and very important. During our first reading, we talked about a number of issues that are very important, so I'm just going to sum up the most important ones here. The EU regulation, which we are implementing, significantly improves, firstly, data protection and secondly, guarantees citizens a better right to privacy. This is extremely important, especially those issues which give, first, the right to be forgotten, i.e. the right to permanently delete personal data processed by a given entity. Secondly, the right to request the transfer of data, i.e. the possibility of transferring personal data to another entity when amending the contract. Thirdly, the extended right to information about what data, for what purpose and by whom they are processed. Fourthly, the right to access the personal data of the data subject. And fifthly, the extended right to object to data processing. These are the characteristics and characteristics of this regulation, which is very important, so it should be recognised that the implementation of this law will make a significant contribution to improving the issues that are increasingly important in the 21st century in today's world. Information and data have become, you can say, even the currency of the 21st century, are at the weight of gold. During the debate at first reading, we highlighted a number of issues that could be changed. These are the parts of the Act which we believe should be clarified and those parts of the Act for which the facts should be kept. Firstly, according to GIODO, it is not a good option, and we share this view, a change in the name of the personal data protection authority and the creation of a new office headed by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Over 20 years of operation of the General Data Protection Officer. This is, you can say, an institution which has already grown permanently in the functioning of an area which is connected with the protection of personal data and entrepreneurs, as evidenced by the results of research, which indicate that as much as 84% The test subjects can spontaneously identify GIODO as the body that deals with these matters. A question should therefore be asked about the social costs of changing the name of this body, which is also well established in the public awareness. Changing this name is not necessary in our view and will lead to nothing good. That's the first line. The second point concerns the appointment of a Board for Personal Data Protection. That, too, should be changed in our view. I will also quote those provisions which have been indicated by the General Data Protection Officer, which show that the proposed scope of tasks of the Board undermines the powers of the President of the Office and at the same time contradicts the assumptions set out in paragraph 1. 1 that it is the advisory and advisory body of the President of the Office. Furthermore, it should be reiterated that the supervisory authority is to act independently. The scope of the Board's tasks and possible composition of the Council raises doubts as to whether the President of the Office will be under pressure. It should be noted that the academic board, which is an advisory body which is set up on the basis of an order, already operates with the General Data Protection Officer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore make two amendments on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. The first concerns the preservation of the current name, i.e. the General Data Protection Officer, and the failure to replace it with the President of the Office, and the second amendment concerns the deletion of the Article. 48, 49 and 170 regarding the mandatory creation of the council I have just mentioned. So on your hand...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u501	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u502	...Mrs. Marshal, I'm handing this over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u503	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u504	Dear Marshal! High, though few represented Izbo! Minister! The Minister hasn't come out of the Sejm in the last two days, and neither have we. On this occasion, I wanted to apologize for not being able to reach the meeting of last night's committee, but I asked the Members who participated in it, and I know its content, and I thank the rapporteur very much for his thorough presentation. I am also in contact with the legislative office, so that I know that a number of technical comments, which had been made by the legislative office, have also been noted, which shows, however, that despite the hard work of the ministry for 2 years, many of these things remain to be normalized. I am afraid that such rapid proceding, as my previous speaker also said, does not, in effect, affect the quality of the law we are creating. So that there is a request to the new minister to where this time is, and in this case there was, in the case of passenger data, which was also discussed at this meeting of the Sejm, just enough to take these issues ahead, because it gives us a better chance of avoiding mistakes, as well as preparing for the changes that we are introducing in this regulation concerning our entrepreneurs, because I do not know if I am isolated, but it was possible to feel this kind of calming approach to this issue, i.e. that it will not be enforced so immediately that these penalties will not be so high. I have repeatedly pointed out that even low penalties for Polish entrepreneurs, which is often on the acquis, which has difficulties to close a month and to keep something else for development, and we want research and development to grow in the expenditure of our entrepreneurs, for which every money counts... And I do not know whether such understanding will come to the courts, when natural persons encounter that the entrepreneur is not prepared and makes mistakes, whether they will actually consider that we were late with the adoption, even if we were able to adopt this law, with the introductory regulations, and that it was not entirely clear. So that I appeal to the Ministry, that immediately after the adoption, because it seems that everything is going to happen that this law will be adopted at this meeting of the Sejm, but take steps to clarify what this law is, what is different from the previous announcements, e.g. exclude small enterprises from the part of the bonds, and communicate it in such a way that it is clear, transparent and a little bit like a manual, an easy-to-executive instruction. I also agree with the amendment made by the Civic Platform. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot spoke about this. We don't think renaming is necessary. It is a little so petty that every name of institutions taken over by law and justice must change. It seems to us that GIODO is well located in awareness and entrepreneurs, and citizens. We know what it does, and even if the responsibility of this body changes, it will deal with the same personal data protection issues to a large extent. Us, the citizens. I just wanted to say thank you at the same time... I know that a large part of the committee meeting was devoted, as the honourable Member spoke about the course of the committee meeting, issues relating to control, visual control, surveillance, recordings. I asked that these issues be clearly explained and that attention be paid to dignity, e.g. in the case of educational institutions for the dignity of pupils, employees, teachers. I know these cases have been taken, so thank you very much for that. And that's all, actually. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u505	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Łopata made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice. One and a half minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u506	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! One brief question that actually came up during this discussion. Namely, I wonder because I also receive a number of questions on the bill on my e-mail as rapporteur, whether you were considering setting up such a crisis call. Or an institution, the appointment of a person who would sometimes answer even the simplest questions at the ministry. There are a lot of questions about the implementation of this law. Perhaps it would be worth considering whether it should be a person somewhere near GIODO or a ministry. It's all the same. But I think it would be very helpful if a person or a group of people would provide basic information for some time. For example, during this discussion, I receive this question. The question is: Can you treat a commercial law company where 100% the shares are held by the municipality as an entity referred to in Article. 101, 102? It's about punishments, or, for example, punishments. such a company will be able to be punished with up to 100,000. Or up to 10,000. I mean, it's like that, isn't it? And, of course, here's someone, one of the voters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He writes to me that the point is that she's being kept on the town's payroll. I think there's gonna be a lot of simple questions like that. It would be worth helping people implement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u507	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u508	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The General Data Protection Officer pointed out that in order to implement and adapt the functioning of the Office to meet the requirements which are related to GDPR, an increase of 28 million PLN will be needed for this year. We know that this money has only been transferred to the special-purpose reserve, it has not been activated, which may mean that the handling of matters relating to new competences may be affected, so I can say, because when it comes to the purchase of new equipment, the preparation of new jobs - and there will be more than 100 new jobs - all these activities will need to be prepared procedures to be followed. And the fundamental question is whether this will not affect the choice or the putting aside of those matters which will be considered less important, and unfortunately these issues will not be fully implemented. In that case, when will the extra money that is needed to start this work be started? And if the Minister has that knowledge, can you tell us when these actions can be fully implemented? [[♪ The bell ♪]] By GIODO? This is, however, a very important question in my opinion, because this budget will have to increase by virtually 100%. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Zagórski has the floor now. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u510	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To answer the questions, I will start by answering Mr Carrot's question. The correspondence between the Minister of Finance and the General Data Protection Officer on this matter took place, and it was also for my information. I would like to say that this correspondence was clear and simple, which is obvious, just to read the Budget Act: the resources for this are. That's it. And that means you could have... Whether they are physically transferred or not, they are provided in the budget. So, in my opinion, the argument which now appears that it cannot be started earlier is an argument a little bit missed, because such actions are always planned in advance and that is not a problem. If we're talking about jobs, the recruitment process could have started earlier, the employment of these new people could have started for some time. And I personally intervened with the finance minister so that it wouldn't be a problem. That's all I can say about it. In general, on the basis of my experience in administration, I do not see such a problem. If the funds are provided, there is a declaration that they will be activated, in my opinion this is not a serious or dramatic problem. However, as I say, I have asked the finance minister to agree with these suggestions by GIODO. As regards the question of Mr Sulphur about the information campaigns and actions which the Ministry of Digitalisation takes, I would like to say that - and I said this also during the debate at first reading - the Ministry of Digitalization is not the only entity to take such action, nor is it the only entity responsible for conducting information campaigns. This is the action of both GIODO and other ministers. For example, the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology takes such action. On the other hand, when it comes to the activities of the Minister of Digitization, we have a general helpline, which today mainly focuses on explaining and works to explain questions about GDPR. We carry out information activities based, for example, on online streaming relationships that are open, and we intend to expand this process. That's what I've been talking about. We'll try as hard as we can with this information to go, with information in the first straight throw. Because Mr Pudłowski rightly points out that small entrepreneurs will have the most problems with this, and we will focus on them. Bigger companies can handle it more easily, in short. I also want to say that just a little bit more... To conclude with the answer to Mr Sulka's question, I would like to say that in the case of companies owned by local government units, they do not fall within the scope of the Public Finance Act, Art. 9 Public Finance Act, which is the basis for exclusion. We had to adopt a standard. I would like to say that this has been raised several times as an argument, why, for example. This is a distinction: a private hospital and a public hospital. We made that distinction. We had to accept one. I would also like to say that there are countries where, with regard to the administration, this has been accepted, penalties have been abolished. There are also allegations that in some countries the public administration will be released from punishment. And there are countries that haven't made that distinction, and they haven't. But we assumed that punishment would only be lower, and a few countries did exactly like us. When it comes to penalties and all about preparation, I've talked about this many times before. This is, of course, not, once again, any argument that there is unprepared. All this time I stress that this is a process in which everyone will learn this. Today, I read on one of the portals a cross-cutting article on how it looks like, what is the results of the survey conducted at the Personal Data Protection Offices in the Member States. On the 24, which were surveyed, in 17 it was found that they could not cope with the implementation on time. I'm not talking about drafting a bill, I'm talking about offices. So, of course, this isn't another argument about punishment, and I don't want to make any soothing declarations either, but I would like to point out that punishments are, first of all, the finality that punishments are moderate, they have to be adjusted to actual offenses, and that as far as these great limits are concerned, these upper limits, the highest limit, 20 million, will apply to the largest... I wanted to say: the biggest companies, but above all, we need to be more precise here and say: those who process personal data most. It's not necessarily... Sometimes they're very big companies. To conclude, all the arguments you have put forward today, they have already been in this debate. We presented our arguments about renaming. I just want to tell you that she did the same thing, for example. Belgium, which created a new body, with a new name, although the tradition was similar. So the approach is different, but I understand we're going to have to talk about it on the committee. At this stage, I would like to thank all of you for your work. Especially when it comes to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, this work has not been done within 24 or 48 hours, but we have talked about it many times. I can say with certainty that we will still work, because we have a package of so-called. introducing, that is to say, a revision of sectoral legislation, which will require even greater attention, but that is ahead of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u511	Thank you very much. Now he's gonna take the floor... He resigned. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the joint committees on the draft law on the protection of personal data. High Izbo! In the course of the so-called. the first reading, which took place on 8 May 2018, on Tuesday, I emphasized - and it was not just me - that was generally unacceptable - the pace of work on the bill. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). - i.e. the recognition by the Member States, including Poland, as binding. The government of the Republic of Poland has been preparing a bill for more than two years, and Parliament, and certainly the Sejm, is to do so in a single meeting within two days. What are the effects? The night work of the joint committees, fatigue and many amendments, which show that the government's two-year work was not so flawless. Besides, I do not want to be malicious and I would like to say that the issue and the area of regulated matters are extremely delicate and difficult. And returning to the amendments: the Legislative Office of the Sejm has tabled as many as 73 amendments, which have been grouped and defined as legislative, but, contrary to appearances, these are not just typos or stylistic errors. I'll even quote Amendment 68, paragraph. 1: The proceedings carried out by the General Data Protection Supervisor, initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Act, shall be conducted by the President of the Office, or amendment No 69, paragraph. 1. In the case of enforcement proceedings under the implementing title issued by the General Data Protection Supervisor before the date of entry into force of this Act, the President of the Office shall become the creditor. Similarly, amendments on numbers 14, 19, 22 and many more. I say a total of 73 amendments were tabled by the Legislative Bureau. The joint committees accepted them en block without discussion, but we see that they are very important. I wonder whether they result from the discussion to the end of the discussion on the change of the Chief Data Protection Officer to the President of the Security Office or for other reasons. Surely, however, the pace of proceding is wrong, not good. In addition to these 73 amendments, the Legislative Bureau presented a number of doubts, as was stated, without any amendments. I am not criticizing this, but I would like to emphasise the lack of time for discussion. High Izbo! In addition to some of the amendments I discussed, the Legislative Bureau has been tabled, and this has been accepted, a whole series - I have counted 10 - substantive amendments. This is difficult to even call amendments, because the ones I want to talk about are completely new regulations. It must be said that it is very good that they have been reported, because the public has already been very concerned. It is about the phenomenon, the monitoring process, monitoring records and possible processing and use. With regard to the use of video surveillance by the private sector, the legal basis for such activities will be Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Monitoring is used e.g. to secure possible claims in the future. This provision cannot be applied in the public sector. The law regulates the use of video surveillance by general uniformed services, tax control, electoral premises and municipal guards. After 25 May this year. it would be possible to recognise that there is no legal basis for the use of cameras by the public administration. Therefore, a whole range of legislative changes were proposed in several areas, including the Regional Government Act, the Municipal Government Act and the Regional Government Act. High Izbo! This issue, i.e. monitoring, recording, storage and use, is even more sensitive in the case of educational institutions, schools. Monitoring schools requires special and detailed treatment. Therefore, a rather comprehensive amendment or addition to the draft law on changes in the Law of Education. Leaving the case without detailed regulation could compromise the image of the child, and this is a way of protecting and ensuring the safety of children. In conclusion, I would like to state on behalf of the PSL-UED club that we support the proposed changes and additions with concern about whether the method of proceding will eliminate any slippages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u513	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 9 May. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice, has the first vote. He's not in the O.R. Therefore, Mr Robert Winnicki, an independent Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I declare that I apologize to Mr Robert Grey for his speech at the Polish Parliament on 1 December 2016 based on media messages, among others. Gazety Wyborcza,.Facts and Rzeczpospolita. I find the claims expressed there to be false, defaming the image of Mr Robert Grey, previously a high-ranking civil servant, violating the personal interests of the Deputy Minister and putting him at risk of losing public confidence. I am aware that I quickly assessed the situation and took action, thereby damaging the image of Mr Robert Grey and the good image and good reputation that Mr Robert Grey had enjoyed until then, which was also a negative image attack on Polish diplomacy, government and Poland. I call on the relevant state authorities to comprehensively explain the sources and circumstances of this unprecedented media attack on a high government official. [[That was quick.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u515	Now Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very sorry that the rulers in an extremely disrespectful way and with great contempt refer to the disabled and their parents protesting in the Seym. Every now and then you can hear worse, more and more vicious statements from PiS politicians, which only confirm that the true view of the PiS on people with disabilities is their isolation. The government does not want to meet the most important demand of protesters, which is an allowance of PLN 500 per month for adults with disabilities requiring constant care. [[Member, for eight years...]] The introduction of in-kind aid does not meet their demands. In-kind assistance does not solve the problems of people with disabilities and their parents who fear for the future of their children. Disgusting are the statements suggesting that disabled carers will not be able to dispose of this money and that is why the assistance is proposed in a thing. Interestingly, you didn't have that kind of objection by giving 500+ to all the children, even the rich. That's when you emphasized that not a torch or a book, and money is the best way to help, because parents know what kids need. So? In this case, my parents don't know, and then they know? A cash allowance would provide a minimum guarantee to parents of disabled persons that their children will not be at the mercy of fate when their parents, or parents, are missing. PiS 4 years ago, during the protest of parents of disabled children, after which the Civic Platform government carried out protests, assured the politicians of PiS that they would not leave people with disabilities after the election. Unfortunately, today, the PiS presents its true face, the face of contempt for people with disabilities and their parents. Every few weeks, Prime Minister Morawiecki boasts of the improved results of the state budget, economic growth, increased VAT revenues. If it's so good, why don't you want to support the most deprived? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u517	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Club Law and Justice. You're an MP, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u518	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As every year on May 4, we celebrate the International Firefighter's Day. The feast is celebrated on the day of the memory in the Catholic Church of St. Floriana. It is a day dedicated to all firefighters in homage for their efforts and putting their lives at risk, in thanking for their help and rescue, and for those who died. The size, strength and commitment of the firefighters may have recently seen the inhabitants of Żywiecczyn. 23 April after 3 p.m. 21 there was a fire in the solvent plant in Żywiec. It was one of the biggest fires in the history of the city. The fire column, the thick smoke, was visible from a distance of a dozen kilometers. 600 m2 of warehouse burned and dozens of cars. As a result of the action, part of the facility and neighboring buildings were saved. 37 firefighters, including 18 volunteer firefighters, were involved in rescue operations and one of the firefighters was slightly injured. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Being a firefighter is not only a profession but, above all, a hard and self - sacrificing service, whether it is voluntary or professional. From this place I thank all bridesmaids and bridesmaids with great and sincere thanks for their commitment and dedication to helping all my neighbors unselfishly. Respect and recognition for sacrifice and renunciation to save human life, health and property. May your service be a source of satisfaction to you and a cause for pride, according to the still current firefighter's call: God for glory, men for salvation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u519	Thank you. The statement will now be made by Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year marks the 250th anniversary of the establishment of the Bar Confederation, the armed union of the Polish nobility established in Bara in Podol on 29 February 1768, in defence of the Catholic faith and independence of the Republic of Poland, the first great Polish national uprising. In June Ub. R. Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2018 as the Year of the Bar Confederation. This anniversary has been an inspiration to establish a theme within the 10 years of my historic competition for upper secondary school students. This year the students wrote a test on. We will not kneel before the mighty of power. The Bar Confederation and its heroes. The final of this year's competition was held on 24 April in the Professional School Complex. Kazimierz Pułaski in Gorlice, a special place, because it is worth mentioning that Kazimierz Pułaski was one of the commanders and marshals of the Bar Confederation. It should also be added that during the Confederate fights this hero was on Gorlice land, where the battle with the Russian branch of General Drewicz took place in nearby Wysowa. I would also like to stress that the competition is organized together with the branch of the Institute of National Remembrance and the Education Curatorium in Krakow, and this year it was held under the honorary patronage of the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. The organisation of the finals of the competition itself can be compared with prom exams. As every year it was the drawing of places and the encoding of works. The contest sheets of the participants were assessed by a committee composed of the guardians of the contestants selected by drawing lots. In the tradition of organized competitions there are also tours which take place during the improvement of work, when students expect results. The young people who come to Gorlice from other towns in Małopolska have an opportunity to learn about the interesting and rich history of our city. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The winners of this year's historical competition • We will not kneel before the powerful authorities. The Bar Confederation and its heroes were: First place was taken by the team in the composition: Dominik Czymyk, Jan German and Łukasz Zimowski from I LO im. Marcin Kromera in Gorlice, scored 148 points. In particular, I would like to distinguish Mr Dominik Czyz, who individually scored the highest number of points, i.e. 50 over 51 possible. The second place was won by a team from the High School in the School Complex No.1 in Warsaw. Ignacy Łukasiewicz in Gorlice with a total of 131 points. The third place was won by a team from the High School of Education from Stary Sącz with the sum of 129 points. The fourth place came to the group from the II LO. Maria Konopnicka in Nowy Sącz, who scored 127 points. This year's fifth place was won by ex aequo teams from the High School. Stanisław Wyspiański in Biecz and with I LO with Bilingual Branches im. Jan Długosz in Nowy Sącz, with the number of 125 points. Every year, all participants of the competition, both students and carers, receive gifts as a thank you for participating in the competition. For years, the main prize for the winning team is to go to Brussels, and for the next four teams - a 2-day trip to Warsaw. And at the beginning of June I will have the pleasure of visiting our winners in the Seym as well. I warmly congratulate the winners, and I thank all the participants for taking part in these competitions for years. Thank you for coming, for wanting to make an extra contribution. But I would also like to thank all the teachers who devote their extra work, their extra time to prepare the students. And as I once made a commitment, I invite you to the next contest, thanking you for this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u521	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Jacek Wilk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 24 April of this year, the House of Representatives of the United States Congress adopted Act No. S.447, entitled in translation into Polish: Justice for Survivors, who were not compensated, in short JUST. This law creates an extremely dangerous precedent, as it provides grounds for the US government to exert pressure, among others. for countries such as Poland, in the creation of special legal bases enabling the transfer of compensation or equal value of property to persons who did not leave behind heirs and who were murdered during World War II, organisations working to commemorate victims after the Holocaust or to help survivors from the Holocaust. It should be stressed that the case has a history, since the US Senate adopted a twin law on 12 December that year, taking a similar assumption, i.e. such that it will allow, as I said earlier, pressure on certain countries such as Poland to create a special law that will allow for the payment of huge compensation which does not have a basis in our legal system. The amount of these compensations is estimated at between $65 billion and even $300 billion in Poland. It is therefore not only absolutely impossible economically to execute by our state, but, most importantly, this type of claim is absolutely and fundamentally contrary to our legal order, because in our legal order the property of persons who died without child is transferred to the property of the State Treasury and not to any other entities, especially entities and foreign organisations. This case has long been brought to the attention of the American Polonia, who has been taking very intense action from the very beginning to block this action. There was a whole action involving visits to the offices of American Members, offices of senators and not only to convince them that this type of legislation has no legal basis, and the application of it to Poland is absolutely unfair from the point of view of what happened in history. Unfortunately, the activity, actually zero, of the Polish authorities in this area, which are trivializing the matter, is very small. Meanwhile, we know from the debate in the American Congress, and this has been said directly, in an open text, that the purpose of this law is to give the basis for creating pressure, among other things. for Poland to be paid this type of debt, absolutely unfounded, as I said. Therefore, just after the adoption of this act on 24 April this year, the American Polonia took further, very intense action to veto the bill. It was written a special letter addressed to President Donald Trump, in which the American Polonia demands vetoing this law, indicating a number of very specific legal bases, showing that such potential claims have no justification and are contrary to the Polish legal order. There is also a 1960 agreement that has definitely resolved this issue, to a certain extent concerning American citizens, of course. Since I have been working with the United States Polonia on this matter from the beginning, a twin letter - Polish parliamentarians to the President of the United States - was also written with a request to veto this law. The letter was issued until today in the Seym, it was possible to sign this letter. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Two Members have signed it. I am showing this so that it can be seen how really Polish parliamentarians are interested in this vital issue. Such an important issue of the Polish parliament, Polish parliamentarians show almost zero interest, and it can be extremely dangerous for Poland. So let the Poles know how many people really are involved in this matter and which people are concerned about it. The letter will be submitted to the American embassy tomorrow and published again with the list of people who signed up for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that Poles will have the opportunity to find out who really cares about Polish interests in this very important context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u523	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u524	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On Wednesday, 9 May, we celebrate Europe's Day, informally called the celebration of the European Union. It is a celebration established on the anniversary of the presentation of the plan for the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community, known as the Schuman Plan, by Robert Schuman on 9 May 1950. This is an extremely important day in view of the current situation not only on our continent but also on the world. As every year, the values that lead this day are the celebration of peace and unity in Europe. In his speech in Paris in 1950, Robert Schuman, then French Minister for Foreign Affairs, proposed a new form of political cooperation in Europe that would prevent a new war. Its idea was to create a supranational European institution governing all coal and steel production. The Treaty establishing this institution was signed a year later. The Schuman Plan is considered to be the seed of what the European Union is today, as well as the declaration of values that we all now want to confess, namely respect for human dignity, democracy, freedom, unity or, above all, equality. The European Union, in its present form, not only provides us with stability and peace, but also offers extraordinary opportunities for cooperation between countries, economic development and free movement between members of the community. Some of these things are standard for many young Europeans today, and for this reason some do not remember how much we owe to the agreement that we have worked out together over the years. It is therefore worth recalling that the community of European countries is at the same time a guardian of the values that we all now confess and the standard of living that we have today. With this in mind, I would like every citizen of our country to appreciate what we achieved on 1 May 2004, when we became a member of the European Union. Today, 14 years after accession, as every year we can celebrate not only joining the countries of the community, but also taking part in the celebration of the European Union, of which we should be proud.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! May 4th is International Firefighter's Day. In Poland since 2003 Firefighter's Day has been celebrated as a professional holiday, established by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The festival was initiated by Australian firefighter J.J. Edmondson of Melbourne to commemorate the tragically deceased five firefighters' colleagues Matt, Stuart, Jason, Garry and Chris - December 2, 1998 in Linton. They tried to save someone's life and property during the fire, as firefighters around the world do. As an expression of respect for fallen firefighters and support for their families, the fire department in the state of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia, consisting mainly of volunteers, and the Community, the state of Victoria, accepted the red and blue ribbon as a symbol. When this information first came to the Internet community, the response was immediate from the U.S. fire crews who accepted to wear the symbol not only on that day. Such a response from across the ocean and letters coming from different parts of the world after the tragedy led J.J. Edmondson to become a symbol of support and respect for all the world's firefighters with the arrival of 1999, and to establish a day where the celebrations could be promoted and coordinated together. After consultation through the Community with national and international firefighters, a date was fixed for the day of St. Floriana in the Catholic Church, patron saint of all firefighters. Officially, the feast was established in 2002 by the Polish Sejm in the amendment of the Law on the State Fire Service (PSP) of 1991. Posted article, article. 30a, formally establishes Firefighter's Day. In Poland, both the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department celebrates this day. Celebrations related to the celebrations are among others. the opportunity to: nominations for higher officers and aspirants; awards of civilian decorations for outstanding firefighters: For Long Service, for Merit for Firefighters, Deserving for Fire Protection, also for people who specifically supported fire protection activities; presentation of firefighters' equipment and skills. A rare element of the official ceremony is the handing out of the military medal for the Defence of the Country, given by the Minister of National Defence. Following official ceremonies follows the artistic part during which competitions or competitions are held, e.g. between fire units from various cities, in which both firefighters from the State Fire Department and voluntary firefighters participate. A frequent accent is the participation of young people or music bands. Firefighter's Day is a holiday for those who are dangerous, full of dangers, but also in a kind of beautiful service. For can there be anything more beautiful in man's life than giving yourself to others? And that's the kind of ideas firefighters have. These ideas are derived directly from the patron saintly firefighters. Floriana. He who suffered martyrdom as he hurried with his witness of faith, with the help and comfort of persecuted Christians, became the guardian of the professions involving fire in the many dangers that everyday endanger the material and spiritual welfare of man. On this occasion, I would like to thank the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of voluntary firefighters and the officers of the State Fire Department for their rescue activities, their selfless service to another man, for raising young people in the spirit of helping another man and serving their homeland. I wish you the satisfaction of social activity, a lot of health, personal happiness and success in your work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-09-sejm-62-2.u526	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 10 May 2018, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 22]]
